

401 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Going With the Flow

 BODY:
Last spring, a battle over sewage wore on between two communities in Westchester, each with a credible claim to the moral and environmental high ground and with a comparable reservoir of virtuous stubbornness. This page held its nose and waded in between them. 
 It supported the diversion of sewage from an ailing, overtaxed treatment plant in Yorktown to a bigger, better one in Peekskill on the grounds that solving an immediate problem - keeping contaminated stormwater from fouling the source of drinking water for nine million people - was more urgent than resolving slightly more abstract, though no less significant, concerns about development, sprawl and environmental racism.
 Better to send treated effluent into the Hudson than the raw stuff into the reservoir, our thinking went -- even if that made Peekskill hot under its blue collar and might have allowed more McMansions to sprout in leafy Yorktown. 
 Such an arrangement was fine with Yorktown, though not with Peekskill, which argued that it would not only burden working-class Peekskill with what one critic called ''the effluents of the affluent,'' but would unfairly limit Peekskill's own economic ambitions while lifting what had been a tight lid on sprawl in Yorktown.
 But that whole argument is now dead. New circumstances make it moot.
 The first is that the Peekskill plant cannot, after all, readily relieve Yorktown's sewage burden. A study last year by the New York City Department of Environmental Protection found that the plant would need to be expanded and given lots of new pipes and pumping-station improvements to handle the Yorktown flow, a big technical and political hurdle in a county government where diversion was becoming an ever dirtier word.
 The second is that the Department of Environmental Protection, the agency charged with protecting the region's water supply, became willing to make exceptions to rules it had refused for years to bend. After vigorously dismissing every call to upgrade and expand the Hallocks Mills plant in Yorktown as impossible and irresponsible, the agency has backed down. Yorktown officials have, too, and are seeking to come up with as much as $40 million to upgrade and expand Hallocks Mills.
 So far so good. It's easy to stand corrected on this, because it's easy to share Peekskill's relief at avoiding being unfairly dumped upon by Yorktown. It's also good that Hallocks Mills will someday handle stormwater surges better, and that people's water will be cleaner as a result. 
 But we reserve the right to wield our previous arguments against the ever-present danger of irresponsible growth. The upgrading of Yorktown's sewage plant must not become the catalyst for sprawl. Sewer hookups are to developers what crowded subway cars are to pickpockets: an invitation to be very, very bad. 
 The pressure to develop the area must be kept in check, or the waste flow will grow, and everyone will be back where they started.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); WATER QUALITY (76%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); COUNTIES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Yorktown (NY); Peekskill (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



402 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: That Sound You Hear? The Market Coming Down to Earth

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ford Fessenden, as well as by Kathleen McGrory in Westchester, Faiza Akhtar and Sophia Chang on Long Island, John Koblin and Nate Schweber in New Jersey and Alejandro Lazo and Avi Salzman in Connecticut.

 BODY:
AS clusters of open-house balloons bob across the suburbs of the metropolitan area, from the New Englandy enclaves of Fairfield County to the salt-sprayed boroughs of the Jersey Shore, the question remains: whither the housing market?
 Everyone, it seems, has an answer, and those answers can be strangely contradictory and accurate at the same time. If inventory is your gauge, the market is slackening. If prices are your prism, it's still going strong.
But in interviews with more than two dozen real estate agents, buyers, sellers and economists, the consensus is that the housing market in the region remains remarkably buoyant but is coming down to earth. Prices are still in the clouds, but inventory is expanding, sales volume declining and bidding wars, once commonplace, increasingly rare.
 In short, the boom is over. Yet there is no bust in sight. ''It's turning,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization. ''It's neither a buyer's nor a seller's market.'' 
 Buyers say they no longer feel pressured to make an offer the moment they step over the doorsill. (There are even isolated reports of sellers getting lowball offers.) Brokers, meanwhile, are lecturing sellers to be more realistic about prices, and sellers are working harder to spruce up their homes.
 ''A few years ago, sellers were not making their beds and leaving dishes in the sink, and buyers were still coming and buying,'' said Cindy DeRose, a sales agent for Hudson Shores Realtors in Irvington, N.Y. ''It is still a healthy market. But it has cooled down enough that sellers just have to do a little more work, frankly.''
 Of course, the real estate market in the New York City suburbs has long had its ups and downs. But over time, houses there have proved to be extraordinary investments because people want to be close to the city while enjoying the relative safety and good public schools the suburbs offer.
 Though the pattern of contradiction in the current market seems fairly consistent from state to state, there are differences from one community to the next, with some towns appearing almost impervious to any downturn, at least for now. 
 Frank Anthony, a sales associate for Coldwell Banker in Mendham, N.J., called the current market ''town sensitive.'' He compared a Cape Cod in East Hanover, N.J., for $519,900 that has sat on the market for 80 days with a colonial in Millburn, N.J., that was listed for $775,000 and sold in two days. 
 Mr. Anthony believes the market is still hot as long as three conditions are met: ''nice house, nice location and nice price.'' 
 For all the talk of a bubble, prices do not seem ready to collapse or even edge south, with the exception of houses whose price tags were plainly inflated. Brokers say the $1 million mark seems to be a dividing line: houses priced for less sell quickly, while houses listed for more are sitting longer and, in some cases, going for less than their list prices.
 The most recent statewide real estate data for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut show that housing prices continued to appreciate late last year, but at a less breathless clip than the year before. 
 According to Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist and assistant vice president for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the growth rate in the price of an average house peaked at the same moment in all three states, the third quarter of 2004. New York State saw a 17 percent increase in sales prices for single-family houses, over the same quarter in 2003; Connecticut, 15 percent, and New Jersey, 18.5 percent.
 By comparison, in the last quarter of 2005, housing prices in New York rose 12.6 percent over the year before, 11.9 percent in Connecticut and 14.6 percent in New Jersey. Westchester County's fourth quarter witnessed a more modest increase of 6 percent. And some brokers believe that housing prices may be leveling off. 
 ''It's like going from 60 miles per hour to 30 miles per hour,'' Ms. Rosen said of the rise in prices. ''We're just decelerating. It looks like the market is moving away from its peak.''
 Armed with reports of an easing market and steeped in Internet research, some buyers are heading to open houses with raised hopes, expecting to find a house or a condominium they can not only afford but also actually want to inhabit. Some are equating a softening market with falling prices; they are often disappointed.
 ''There doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to this market,'' said Claudia DeNatale, who recently toured a lackluster three-bedroom condominium in Huntington Station, N.Y., listed for $425,000. ''There's been so much talk about the market changing, but I don't see anything dramatic. When you talk about a drop, it should be significant.''
 What many buyers do report is greater choice. Indeed, inventory -- tight as a noose since 2000 -- is up across the region, sometimes markedly.
 On Long Island, the number of unsold houses in January stood at 23,470, a 67 percent jump from the year before. Inventory in Connecticut also rose. In Fairfield County, the number of houses for sale at the end of last year was 35 percent higher than in late 2004. Inventories in some communities (Norwalk, Easton, New Canaan and Darien) were up more than 50 percent.
 New Jersey's inventory swelled, too, up 46 percent in January over the previous year. Westchester had the least growth in the number of houses on the market, 13 percent more at the end of 2005. If you add in co-ops and condominiums, the rise in inventory was 21 percent.
 The chief executive of Westchester County's real estate board, P. Gilbert Mercurio, said the total number of residential properties now on the market is still less than half that of the mid-1990's. ''The real estate boom ate into the inventory in Westchester County, and it is only now starting to rebuild,'' he said.
 Whatever the exact inventory increases, the effect is a more relaxed home-buying environment. Kelly Sabloff has sampled both markets. In 2001, she and her husband, Matthew, relocating from Montreal, bought an expanded Cape for $515,000 in Stamford. In February, after selling it for $680,000, they moved a short distance to a center hall colonial, for which they paid $747,000. 
 ''The big difference I noticed was the choice,'' Mrs. Sabloff said. ''Granted I was in a different price range four and a half years later. But there was a sheer volume of choice. You didn't have the pressure of, 'If you don't put an offer down, you're going to lose it.' ''
 Bill Hanley, president-elect of the New Jersey Association of Realtors and manager of Weichert Realtors in Metuchen, N.J., agreed. ''Before we had one home for 10 buyers,'' he said. ''Now the one buyer can look at 10 homes.''
 For sellers, the new market dynamic can lead to frustration. Gary Harman watched in recent years as his neighbors sold Cape Cod-style homes for more than a half-million dollars. At the end of December, he put his house, in East Hanover, N.J., on the market for $539,000. None of the more than 25 people who came to see it made an offer. He has since dropped the price twice, to $519,900. 
 He believes his house stands out because of the abundant custom wood molding he installed himself. ''The discouraging part is that when the people go through the house, they don't even take that into consideration,'' he said. ''You could have holes in the house and it wouldn't matter.'' 
 Other sellers are newly self-conscious about the style of their house. Contemporaries, ranches and split-levels tend to sell more slowly than traditional houses, but that is even more true in a softening market, brokers say. 
 Lori and Greg Margolis are about to put their 1960's ranch in Harrison, N.Y., on the market for $2.2 million. It is a sizable property: 4,000 square feet on one and a half acres. They have transformed the house, which Mrs. Margolis termed a ''complete 1980's abomination,'' by renovating the bathrooms and painting the rooms stark colors. Still, she is approaching the listing with trepidation. ''The market's not vibrant now,'' she said. ''It's a nice house, but it's a certain look. The buyers in Westchester are not eclectic. It's very conservative. This house in L.A. would be the hippest, coolest house. People here like English country.''
 Buyers, for their part, are feeling the pressures of rising interest rates and limited investment potential. The first would seem to propel buyers toward a purchase, so that they can lock in what is still a desirable rate. The second factor -- the possibility that the market may be at its peak -- may suggest caution.
 Brokers say that buyers are responding by looking for attributes that tend to prop up a home's value over time, like good schools and attractive commutes. More buyers are taking property taxes into account, too.
 Ruth Chizzini, vice president and director of relocation in Westchester for Sotheby's International Realty, said that escalating property taxes in the county were deterring some. ''When you come to New York, you can live in three states, and buyers are going with value,'' she said. ''We are very impacted by taxes. I just lost a couple of $3 million customers to Connecticut.''
 Of course, some towns in the region enjoy such a buzz that market shifts are not acutely felt. There's Rye, N.Y., on Long Island Sound, with top-rated schools and many old and charming houses (quite a few of them mansions -- without the ''Mc'').
 Earlier this month, a house in the prestigious Milton Point section that was listed for $1.7 million went to a sealed bid, a more civilized take on the bidding war, when the seller's broker asks all potential buyers for their best offers and terms.
 Ms. Chizzini says tear-downs are still common in Rye, another sign of a superheated market: in March a builder closed on a $1.6 million house on less than a half-acre, with plans to knock it down and build anew. And two young couples were recently competing for one of Ms. Chizzini's Rye listings -- a four-bedroom split-level asking $875,000 that, in her words, ''needs everything, everything.''
 But for every situation like that, there is one like the town house listed in late January by Carol Ann Decker, a sales associate in the Westport office of Country Living Associates. Mrs. Decker put the town house, in Fairfield, on the market for $535,000. ''We sold it instantly,'' she said. But the buyer got ''cold feet,'' she said, and failed to move forward with an inspection.
 Then three other buyers expressed interest. ''I thought, 'Oh, wow, this is going to be great,' '' Mrs. Decker recalled. ''But it's been a number of weeks and they're all just sitting and waiting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Matthew and Kelly Sabloff with Malkam, Oliver and Ava, in their new home in Stamford. This time, unlike 2001 when they bought a house, ''there was a sheer volume of choice,'' Mrs. Sabloff says. In West Harrison, N.Y., Dolores Tartaglia puts out an open house sign. Westchester had the least growth in the area in the number of houses on the market, 13 percent more at the end of 2005. (Photos by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
Gary Harman, left, dropped the price for his East Hanover, N.J., home to $519,900 from $539,000. Claudia DeNatale, at a Huntington, N.Y., open house, says, ''There's been so much talk about the market changing, but I don't see anything dramatic.'' (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; New Jersey; New York State; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



403 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: A Suburban Switch: The Condo's the Thing

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
IN mid-November, Jin Kim and May Yee Yeoung, single professional women who have been roommates for two years, pooled their money and bought their first home, a luxurious two-bedroom condo just off Interstate 95 in Fairfield, 60 miles north of the rental apartment in TriBeCa where they used to live.
 Two months later, Walter and Lois F. Killough, who have been married 26 years and have two grown children, bought a two-bedroom condo in West New York, N.J., just across the Hudson River from Midtown Manhattan. They are slowly moving out of their home in suburban Mahwah, N.J., so that Mr. Killough can have a shorter commute to work in New York City and Mrs. Killough can be closer to the theaters she loves to attend.
''This feels almost like a vacation home,'' Mrs. Killough, a seventh-grade English teacher, said of her new home at the Hudson Club in Port Imperial, a 200-acre waterfront development that spans five New Jersey cities and towns. 
 ''There's a pool that's right on the edge of the river,'' said Mr. Killough, chief operating officer of Delia's, a retailer of clothing for teenagers. ''There's a whole health club. I can be back home from work in 15 minutes.''
 Although Fairfield and the Hudson waterfront of New Jersey present two distinctly different streetscapes, both sets of homeowners are part of a trend that has the potential to draw a new wave of suburban pioneers to some cities and other densely populated communities. 
 For decades, ornate homes with lush yards and multicar garages have been staples of suburban life and the objects of desire of countless families who yearned for better schools, safer streets and greener environs far from the city. But as the scarcity of vacant land drove prices to stratospheric highs and many outlying communities began to impose restrictions to curb sprawl, builders trained their eyes on urban neighborhoods. 
 There they can still buy old or abandoned property at market value, tear it down and replace it with condos, which can be as fancy as a McMansion and as spacious as a single-family home. Though the properties at the high end are not cheap, they typically cost less than a house of comparable luxury and are easier to maintain.
 ''People that used to be able to afford a 1,200- or 1,500-square-foot home in the suburbs are still moving to the suburbs, but buying a 1,200- or 1,500-square-foot condo instead,'' said Tim Cashel, a division manager at Baker Residential, a developer in Pleasantville, N.Y., that is building two condominium communities in Bayonne, N.J., a long-neglected city on the Hudson River waterfront.
 ''Condos have become the new starter home for a lot of these folks,'' Mr. Cashel said. ''But because some of these condos are so posh and so close to the city, they have also become a retirement home for many other people who were already living in the suburbs, but were looking to trade their mansions for a smaller place.''
 Developers, spotting an opportunity, have been investing in condo construction at a feverish pace. According to the Crittenden Builders Report, a trade publication, the number of new multifamily condo and town house projects increased by about 50 percent nationwide between 2004 and last year. 
 Much of the new construction has sprouted in urban communities that developers bypassed when they blazed new frontiers deep in the suburbs. Local officials enticed them with tactics like tax incentives, selling public property for a fraction of the price and easing the approval of construction permits. In return, the developers promised to fatten municipal coffers with property tax revenues. 
 ''These days, urban areas are more friendly than the smaller suburban communities because their leaders -- the mayors, the city councilors, the city managers -- they want to see those areas revitalized, they want to see their cities active 24 hours, and the best way to do that is to encourage new construction,'' said Jeffrey Dunne, a vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis in Stamford, a commercial real estate company that sells buildings for condominium conversion throughout the New York metropolitan area. 
 Suburban cities ''are following the smart growth principles,'' said Richard V. Guarino, dean of the Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University on Long Island. ''They're creating density where infrastructure already exists, and they're creating this density with mixed-use development in downtown areas, building offices as well as housing so that you can attract young people to live and work there. 
 ''That's critical to the future of these areas because if they're not able to attract young people, they won't be able to sustain their business and economic gains,'' Mr. Guarino said. 
 In the last five years, new condo and rental apartment towers have fueled a renaissance in the working-class enclaves of Union City and Weehawken, N.J., which have at least 30 condo projects recently completed, under construction or in the planning stages; and in once-depressed downtown areas of White Plains and New Rochelle in Westchester County, where three condo towers carry Donald Trump's name.
 In Connecticut, condos have brought residents to Stamford's downtown and to an old industrial swath of Fairfield, where a large office and retail complex, Metro Center, will rise along I-95 and across the street from Stone Ridge, the luxury condominium community where Ms. Kim and Ms. Yeoung live.
 Like many of the new condos on the market, theirs is a high-end unit, with stainless-steel appliances and granite counters, 10-foot ceilings and hardwood floors. Ownership comes with free health club membership. Prices of such new luxury condos are not cheap, typically starting around $450,000 for a one-bedroom, and bigger units can cost as much as $1.5 million. Developers are trying to convince whoever will listen that it is not just a home they are selling, but a style of living.
 ''The bottom line is that these people want an easier way to live,'' said Ramin Rezai, project manager at Sterling Plaza Condominium in Great Neck, N.Y., where there is hardly any room left for new development. ''They don't want to shovel the driveways. They don't want to deal with the annoyances of a broken boiler.
 ''What they want is comfort and convenience, but they don't want to pay New York City prices for that.''
 That is exactly what lured Ms. Kim and Ms. Yeoung to Fairfield, after a year of renting in Manhattan. The women work long hours at a hedge fund in Greenwich, and said they did not want to worry about who was going to drop off their suits at the dry cleaners. 
 ''We have a concierge who can do that,'' Ms. Yeoung said. ''And we don't even have to cook breakfast on the weekends because they serve it at the health club.''
 She added: ''We can live here for two, three years, and we can build a lot of equity. Buying this condo was a great investment. And our home, it looks beautiful.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jin Kim, left, and May Yee Yeoung bought a condo in Fairfield after renting in Manhattan. At right, Ramin Rezai at Sterling Plaza Condominium in Great Neck, N.Y., where he is project manager. At left, a Trump tower, in foreground, in White Plains, N.Y. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITIES (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%) Housing; Suburbs; Renting and Leasing; Condominiums

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City; New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



404 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: They Can Go Home Again

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
A PERMANENTLY unfolded futon bed, piles of clothing and the smell of stale smoke make Sean Sciubba's cottage in Sea Cliff, N.Y., seem a lot like a college dorm room.
 ''They call it 'The Studio,' '' Mr. Sciubba, 23, said of the friends who visit, weary of the childhood bedrooms they've returned to in their own parents' homes.
Mr. Sciubba's loftlike converted garage behind his mother's lavender Victorian affords him more privacy.
 ''The only time I see my mother is when I'm in the office,'' said Mr. Sciubba. Both work at Sherlock Holmes Realty in Sea Cliff, N.Y.; he is the rental manager and she is a real estate agent. 
 It is hardly news that 20- and 30-somethings are living with their parents, camped in a back cottage or a childhood bedroom. The arrangement passes for entertainment, from the Fox sitcom ''Free Ride,'' about a college graduate who moves back in with his parents, to the comedy ''Failure to Launch,'' starring Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker, about a 35-year-old man who never left home.
 But the cost of real estate is making plenty of strange housefellows, with siblings, elderly parents and children, work mates and friends doubling up to save on the mortgage or rent.
 Some local governments are cracking down on cohabitants who are not related. In extreme cases, where day laborers and other immigrants are crowded into houses meant for single families, they are evicting.
 Even the classic ''mother-daughter'' arrangement -- a single-family home with an apartment added for a parent -- is increasingly likely to be illegal, as the cost of building such an apartment to conform to building and zoning codes can run up to $100,000.
 And yet people all over the suburbs are making shared housing work, with some finding happiness and comfort in living with those they know and maybe even love.
 ''It doesn't feel that crowded since they're all family,'' said Ismama Joseph, 52, who lives in a four-bedroom duplex in Norwalk with her husband, two adult daughters, their husbands and the five grandchildren she cares for while the others are at work. ''But it would be impossible with strangers.'' 
 In Fairfield County, many older people -- ''people who have lived their entire lives in Norwalk'' -- are selling and moving in with their children, according to Carol Ann Falasca, a broker at Coldwell Banker Real Estate in Norwalk. ''Their children went to the schools here and all of a sudden they're retired and they cannot afford to stay because of the taxes,'' she said. 
 In New Jersey, Gordon Crawford, a real estate agent with Re/Max Properties Unlimited in Morristown, said about 10 percent of his buyers have been groups of family members buying together. 
 One such group included Suzanne Rosengold, a single mother, who was living last year with her daughter, Hanna, in a one-bedroom rental apartment in Parsippany, N.J., in the same complex as her parents.
 When Ms. Rosengold's grandfather died last year, the family inherited a Florida condominium that they sold, planning to use the proceeds for a down payment on a house.
 After looking at dozens of houses, the Rosengolds found a four-bedroom ranch in Lake Hiawatha, a suburb of Parsippany. All three generations moved in last July -- the first time any of them had owned a home.
 The mortgage payment is the same as the combined rents the Rosengolds were paying before. 
 ''It has really changed our whole lives,'' Ms. Rosengold said. ''My daughter has her own room now. Before, she had a converted dining room.''
 Her father, Edward Rosengold, 63, said: ''I do things now that I've never done before. I have my own workshop. I build things, I repair things.'' 
 In another three-generation household, in Fairfield, Christina and Raul Diaz live in a three-bedroom 1,750-square-foot ranch with Mr. Diaz's 59-year-old mother, Leonor Martinez. Ms. Martinez takes care of the couple's 2-year-old daughter, while they work in nearby Stamford.
 But the household will be growing, Ms. Diaz said. Her mother, Beth Bodnar, 70, who recently retired, is moving in soon, and the couple hope to have another baby next year. 
 Ms. Diaz has been looking for about four months for a bigger house that the family can afford in Fairfield. They need about 2,500 square feet and, ideally, a ground-floor master bedroom, she said. 
 But pickings are slim.
 ''We're probably going to have to put it off another year to save more,'' Ms. Diaz said. 
 The couple is assuming that the real estate market is not going to change at all, she added. ''My big concern is how much equity we can get out of our existing house, because I feel like it's a buyer's market, not a seller's market,'' she said.
 Baby boomers reaching retirement age who want to move to a warmer climate are also increasingly helping their adult children expand their homes or buy a larger house. 
 They don't want to lose total contact with their lives here after moving to Florida or Arizona, said Elayne Jassey, a real estate agent with Prudential Connecticut Realty in Stamford. 
 Expanding one's living space to accommodate a relative may be a good investment, in spite of the cost of complying with zoning codes and the possibility of higher property taxes. 
 While ''real estate prices have exploded,'' said Robert Campbell, professor of real estate finance at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., construction costs have risen more slowly with inflation. Under those conditions, he said, ''building onto your own house is one of the best things that you can possibly do.'' 
 But where young people are concerned, multigenerational living is often seen as temporary. Matt Wolff, 31, has been living at his parents' home in White Plains, N.Y., for two years since friends with whom he shared an apartment in Bronxville went their separate ways.
 Mr. Wolff is saving for a down payment on a co-op, ''the last bastion of affordability'' in the area, according to his father, Nick Wolff, who owns Century 21 Wolff, a six-office real estate agency based in White Plains.
 ''It's not a problem for us,'' the senior Mr. Wolff said of his son's situation, ''but from his standpoint, he's a grown man and wants to be on his own and have privacy.''
 On Long Island, Sean Sciubba also says he won't stay in his mother's cottage forever. ''I work in real estate,'' he said. ''I've done the research. Hopefully, I'll be able to get out of there soon.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Three generations of Rosengolds are living under one roof in a four-bedroom ranch in a suburb of Parsippany, N.J. From top left: Lana, Suzanne, Hanna and Edward. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
 Christina and Raul Diaz seek a home to accommodate a growing family and both of their mothers. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); ZONING (70%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (62%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Suburbs 

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (50%) Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



405 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WHERE WE LIVE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Here to Stay. For Now. 

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
AFTER living for 14 years on four acres in Bedford, N.Y., Greg Smith and Deborah Dodds were ready for a change. With 9-year-old twins, they wanted a home in a neighborhood, the kind of place where there are lots of kids and a spare cup of sugar is as close as the kitchen next door.
 They found just the place, a four-year-old colonial on a cul-de-sac in the same town, and they put in an offer, but reconsidered when they could not get what they wanted for their five-bedroom, three-bath home, which they priced near $1.3 million. Rather than move, they have decided to invest in improvements to the home, a 1960's colonial, even though they still intend to move in the next couple of years.
''We don't want to build the Taj Mahal,'' Ms. Dodds said. ''We'll live here maybe two years afterward. We want it to be comfortable and economical.'' 
 It is a delicate balancing act. According to suburban homeowners, designers and builders, remodeling projects are increasingly being influenced by the uncertainty of the real estate market. When do you reach for the stars and when do you stick with the basics? For each homeowner, the answer is different. 
 Ms. Dodds said she and her husband examined their own needs while considering the comments of potential buyers who toured the house. The couple had already redone the kitchen, but, according to the real estate broker's feedback, buyers said they would have liked the house better if the master bathroom had been updated and if the house had a larger family room.
 ''We learned some things by putting it on the market,'' said Ms. Dodds, who runs two businesses from her home, one selling high-end women's clothing and the other teaching scrapbooking. ''It's very hard to compete against new construction.''
 Working with the interior designer Susan Marocco of Bedford, the couple decided to upgrade the bathroom for about $8,000. ''I don't have time to do a gut,'' Ms. Dodds said.
 That is not to say Mr. Smith and Ms. Dodds are not going to make some major improvements. They are currently planning to expand into the garage to create a large family room off the kitchen and build a separate two-car garage with a second story that could be used as an office or in-law apartment. The cost of that project has not been determined, but could be in the neighborhood of $100,000, Ms. Dodds said.
 ''It will help with resale and make us comfortable the next couple of years,'' she said. 
 Like Mr. Smith and Ms. Dodds, Steven P. Grossman is remodeling his home, a 1970's high ranch in Bellmore, N.Y., with an eye to selling it as well as his own comfort. 
 Mr. Grossman, who listed the house about 18 months ago, could not sell it, even after he dropped the price $200,000 to $895,000; following the advice of his real estate agent, he had made no improvements before putting the house on the market. This time around, he is taking a different approach.
 Based on buyers' negative comments, he created a plan to solve problems while making himself happy. He paved a dirt road that leads to the property and is now replacing windows, altering the facade and putting on new decks. He has plans to upgrade the kitchen, gut the bathrooms and make cosmetic changes throughout.
 To treat himself, he replaced old sliding glass doors with a wall of windows that accentuate the water views.
 ''Every day I walk upstairs in my house and say that's the best money I spent,'' he said.
 Mr. Grossman estimates the cost of the improvements between $100,000 and $150,000 and says he has carefully assessed costs based on the impact the improvements may have on resale.
 For example, while he will be putting new stainless steel appliances in the kitchen, he did not go for the top of the line. Rather than removing old cabinetry, he is having it painted and new hardware put on.
 ''I'm hedging whether I'm staying or going,'' he said. ''I didn't want to go full bore because one never knows if this is a bubble and when the bubble might burst.''
 Besides the real estate market and their personal comfort, Catherine and Stephen Candland of Greenwich had one more consideration as they restored and updated their turn of the century Arts and Crafts home for nearly 10 years: maintaining the architectural integrity of the house.
 Their major projects included turning an addition that once housed a doctor's office into a kitchen, family room, spare guest rooms and office. The third-floor attic was turned into bedrooms for two daughters, a family room, bathroom and laundry room. A master bedroom was created, a pool and patio added and numerous small steps taken to restore architectural features to the home.
 Now, with three daughters aged 13, 17 and 20, the Candlands think they are short-timers in the house. As they move forward on what will probably be their final major project, working with Stephanie Ladoff-Koch, the owner of Ladd Design of New Canaan, they are also factoring in how far they want to go in an uncertain market.
 ''We could have spent twice or even three time what we were going to spend on this project,'' Ms. Candland said. ''We decided we would balance it with our original three goals. 
 ''Historically Greenwich has held its value, but I think a number of things are happening in Connecticut and it's naive to assume that things won't slow down.''
 While they knew they wanted to take down a wall to open up the entryway, a decision on whether to add a gas fireplace had to be carefully weighed against what it would cost to open a hidden flue. 
 The Candlands decided to go with a fireplace, but chose electric, an alternative that would not require opening up the flue. 
 For some homeowners, especially those who expect to be staying put for a while, comfort outweighs the investment factor in home improvement. Darlene Branch and her husband, Leonard, of Orange, N.J., had hoped to move to a community with a better school system, but found themselves priced out of the market in places like Montclair and Glen Ridge and are considering private school for their children.
 For now, they are altering their six-bedroom Victorian home to better suit their needs as well as those of their 4-year-old twins. Ms. Branch said they went ahead with a $16,000 basement remodeling so the children would have a place to play, even though she was told the improvement would not contribute much to the home's resale value. 
 The Branches put off a major kitchen remodeling, choosing instead to invest in new windows and convert the oil heater to gas for future energy savings. This summer she will make improvements to the outside of the house, replacing gutters and painting.
 Ms. Branch is also working with an interior designer, Nicole Bouknight, of Bloomfield, N.J., to redecorate the children's rooms and the living areas on the first floor.
 ''Even if you did all the renovations in the world, I don't think the market is going to hold,'' Ms. Branch said. ''So we decided let's do what makes us happy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Greenwich, the Arts and Crafts home of Catherine and Stephen Candland has been restored and updated for nearly 10 years. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)
 Darlene and Leonard Branch renovated their basement to give their 4-year-old twins a play area. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (71%); CITIES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Home Repairs and Improvements

PERSON: deborah dodds; Katherine Smith; Steven Grossman; Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



406 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By Nina Kamp, Michael O'Hanlon and Amy Unikewicz. 
Nina Kamp and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, a senior research assistant and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
AS we reach the third anniversary of the start of the war, the confusion on the ground in Iraq seems to have spread to American generals' public pronouncements. Last Monday, just days after saying that pacification efforts with the Iraqis were going ''very, very well,'' Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told an audience that Iraq is ''a place that is having some real difficulties right now'' and that ''everything is in place if they want to have a civil war.'' Unfortunately, an examination of trends in Iraq backs up General Pace's later, more sober comments. 
 The country's economy continues to disappoint. Although it had a fairly quick recovery in 2003 and early 2004, when gross domestic product was restored to Saddam Hussein-era levels, violence and instability have prevented much further progress. And while subsidies for gasoline and some other goods, which have been costing the Iraqi government about $10 billion a year, or a third of gross domestic product, have been reduced, projections that the country's economy will grow by 10 percent a year for the rest of the decade look increasingly suspect. Current growth sputters along at less than 5 percent despite sky-high prices for oil exports. Most utilities (except telephones and Internet services) are still performing below Baathist-era levels. Unemployment remains very high.
Politically, Iraqis have been stalemated in forming a new government since the impressive Dec. 15 elections, primarily over issues like ensuring fair distribution of Iraq's oil revenue and devising ways to reintegrate lower-level former Baathists into society. This political inertia reinforces the widespread Sunni Arab sense of estrangement. And it contributes to remarkably high levels of Sunni Arab approval for violence against coalition troops (almost 90 percent) and even against their own government.
 Paradoxically, most of what good news there has been this winter is on the security front. American troop fatalities in Iraq have declined relative to last fall's typical levels. Fatalities among Iraqi security forces have also gone down, as have car bombings. Unfortunately, civilian casualties have been as high as ever and, since the Feb. 22 bombing of the Samarra mosque, sectarian violence is worse than at any time since the invasion.
 All that said, according to public opinion polls, more than 60 percent of Iraqis (though very few Sunni Arabs) remain bullish on the future. And Iraqi security forces continue to improve, with far higher percentages having reached the upper half of the four-tier readiness rating system. These statistics may point to the possibility of a troop drawdown strategy for the United States -- but while a strategically passable outcome still seems within reach, it is increasingly hard to believe that there are the makings of a major success for American foreign policy in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Chart tracks number of U.S. Troop Fatalities, Iraqi Security Fatalities, Car Bombs (very rough), Iraqi Civillians Killed by War, Estimated Number of Insurgents, Estimated Number of Foreign Terrorists, Average Number of Daily Attacks by Insurgents, Top Baathists/Terrorists at Large, Intelligence Tips Received From Iraqis, U.S./Other Foreign Troops in Iraq (in thousands), Iraqi Security Personnel (in thousands), Iraqi Security Forces in Top Tiers of Readiness, Oil Production (in millions of barrels per day
prewar: 2.5), Household Fuel Availability (percent of estimated need), Electricity Production (average magawatts
 prewar estimate: 4,000), Unemployment Rate (percent), Expected Sunni Arab Share of Iraq's Future Oil Revenue (percent), Cumulative U.S. Aid Spent (in billions of dollars), Iraqis Optimistic About Their Future (percent) and Iraqis Favoring Concrete Timeline for U.S. Withdrawl (percent) since February 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TRENDS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) United States Politics and Government; Books and Literature; United States Politics and Government; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Harvey C Mansfield; Nina Kamp; Michael O'Hanlon; Amy Unikewicz

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



407 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Top Hamptons Rentals Go Fast, Agents Say 

BYLINE: By ROSAMARIA MANCINI

DATELINE: BRIDGEHAMPTON 

 BODY:
WARM weather may be months away, but it is already high season in the Hamptons beach rental market.
 Vacationers are staking claims on summer homes in the Hamptons, and real estate agents predict that 2006 could end up being one of their stronger summer rental seasons.
''It's still the place to be,'' said Paul Brennan, the regional manager of the Hamptons for Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate. ''There are always people saying that the Hamptons are out of fashion, but for every one person who snubs the place there are 10 people who want to be here.'' 
 For this summer, Prudential Douglas Elliman is listing 6,000 rentals in the Hamptons, a 10 percent increase from last year, and about 2,000 of those listings have already been taken -- a relatively high number, Mr. Brennan said.
 The big difference this year was the timing, said Gordon Hoppe, the managing director of the Corcoran Group real estate offices in East Hampton. Traditionally, vacationers start to secure rentals in February and March, but this year they started in January, he said.
 ''It all just started sooner,'' Mr. Hoppe said. ''The interest was there early on.''
 The Corcoran Group has about 2,500 rentals on the market in the Hamptons that range from $12,000 to $1 million for the season, which runs from Memorial Day to Labor Day. 
 The homes that have already been accounted for were on the higher end of the spectrum, agents said -- a standard pattern in vacation markets because of the competition to lock in the best houses first.
 ''If they get in early, they pay more, but they get what they want, and that's what is important to them,'' said Mr. Brennan, who noted that most of the seasonal rentals for $100,000 and above are already taken. ''The cream of the crop is gone. There is less of a selection.''
 There are still plenty of rentals at the lower end of the market. Jan Grznar of Brooklyn is looking to rent his 1,800-square-foot summer home on about a half-acre on Huntting Avenue in East Hampton. He wants $38,000 for the season for the three-bedroom, three-bath house, which has the standard Hamptons amenities, including central air-conditioning and a pool.
 ''I'm not worried, because there has been a lot of interest already,'' said Mr. Grznar, who has owned the house for four years. ''Last year we rented it just two weeks before Memorial Day. I'm actually thinking we will have it rented sooner.''
 The mild winter may have contributed to the early start this year, but the record profits at many of Wall Street's major investment banks last year are the key reason the Hamptons rental market has been strong, said Irwin L. Kellner, a professor of economics at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank. 
 ''The financial executives, the brokers and the traders earned big bonuses, and they quickly locked in the property of their choice,'' Dr. Kellner said. ''They are not looking for last-minute bargains because, well, they don't need to.''
 Wall Street handed out a record $21.5 billion in bonuses in 2005, the New York state comptroller's office said.
 But that does not mean that homeowners asked for more money this year.
 ''The majority of our clients have been keeping it steady. They haven't been asking for any significant price increases unless they made improvements,'' said Mr. Hoppe, who said that was in tune with the selling market. 
 In the case of Mr. Grznar's home, the $38,000 asking price amounts to a $3,000 increase from last summer, but he said that was because a bathroom was added over the winter. 
 The rental market in the Hamptons is not only vital to the economy on the East End, but it also serves the real estate sales market. 
 Mr. Brennan of Prudential Douglas Elliman said: ''The rental market is where they get their feet wet, which we hope leads to home buying in the future. It's part of the cycle.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan Grznar in the summer home he owns in East Hampton. He hopes to rent it for $38,000 for the season. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%) Housing; Travel and Vacations; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Rosamaria Mancini

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%) Hamptons (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



408 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Cash and Carry Democracy

BYLINE: By Rachel Leon. 
Rachel Leon is executive director of Common Cause New York, a nonprofit group that tracks the influence of money in politics.

 BODY:
THE fact that an individual is allowed to give more money to a candidate for New York State office than to a presidential contender should tell New Yorkers that our campaign finance laws need to be fixed. 
 Many New Yorkers have a sense that money plays an all too important role in state political campaigns. Many also believe that campaigns are paid for largely by special interests and wealthy individuals who represent neither the diversity of our state nor the best interests of the public at large in their interactions with elected officials.
But sensing that things are bad and facing up to the ugly facts are not the same. Sensing warrants investigation. Seeing the facts warrants action. 
 Well, the facts are in. My group's research shows that campaigns in New York rank among the most expensive in the country. While 99 percent of New Yorkers give nothing directly to state-level political campaigns, those few who do give make contributions in amounts that are far beyond the reach of most New Yorkers. 
 The federal contribution limit for individuals giving directly to candidates is $2,100. In New York, however, an individual can contribute up to $3,400 for Assembly candidates, $8,500 for State Senate candidates and $33,900 for statewide candidates in the general election. As a result, in the 2002 gubernatorial, 2004 legislative and current 2006 election cycles, more than 55 percent of the money received by candidates for state office came via checks written for more than $2,100. Put another way, more than 55 percent of the campaign contributions made by individuals in New York State would have been illegal if given to presidential and Congressional candidates. 
 Furthermore, the cost of campaigns in New York is high and rising, making this small group of donors increasingly important to candidates. The cost of a winning gubernatorial campaign has almost quadrupled since 1986, when the winning candidate spent more than $11 million, and has increased more than eightfold since 1990, to $44 million in 2002. Even when adjusted for inflation, the cost of a winning campaign has more than doubled since 1986, and has increased sixfold since 1990. 
 When candidates feel pressure to raise large sums of money to be competitive, wealthy individuals and other corporate and special interest groups grow in influence and importance while the rest of us are pushed ever more into the sidelines of our democracy. 
 Dramatically lowering the cap on individual contributions to a level more comparable with the federal limit would help control this influence. But if New Yorkers are to have confidence in the system that elects their public servants, attention must also be paid to how campaign funds are spent. The single largest category of expenses for state legislative candidates in the 2004 election cycle was not television ads or fundraising but ''other.'' Winning candidates also tend to spend a significant portion of their money outside the height of the election season. These two troubling facts highlight the pervasive practice of candidates using campaign funds for purposes that stretch the definition of ''campaign expense'' to its breaking point. 
 When candidates can use campaign funds for everything from country club memberships to luxury car leases, special interests are able to make an end-run around our gift restrictions by effectively supporting candidates' lifestyles. If the public is to invest in a strong system of campaign finance, they need to know that campaign money will be appropriately spent.
 So in addition to a cap on individual contributions, lawmakers should embrace a ban on the use of campaign funds for personal use. Lawmakers should also push for improved disclosure and enforcement and public financing of elections. 
 Connecticut has recently proved that state legislatures can enact comprehensive campaign finance reform. And New York City has a program of partial public financing of elections that is considered a national model. It's time for New York State to follow their lead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (94%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); ETHICS (72%) Finances; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (59%) Common Cause (Orgn)

PERSON: Rachel Leon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



409 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Now Booming, Not Burning, The Bronx Fears a Downside

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Manny Fernandez contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
For decades, the area known as the Hub has been the retail heart of the South Bronx, attracting throngs of people to its small family-owned stores even as the residential blocks around it were ravaged by crime and, at times, consumed by flames.
 But now, those who have kept this scrappy shopping district alive are worried, and the source of their fears is not robbers or arsonists, but development. A long-vacant lot is the planned home of a major shopping center that will include national chain stores like Staples, Forman Mills and Rite-Aid. Their impending arrival has caused as much apprehension as happiness.
''We have to watch out for the mom-and-pop stores,'' said George Rodriguez, chairman of the local community board, who for years has sought to bring national retailers to the area. ''They did not move out, they did not capitulate. They served the clients in the area.'' 
 And the Hub is just the heart of it. A few decades after it became a national symbol of urban decay, the Bronx is home to a rash of new construction projects that are changing neighborhoods that have seen little new building in half a century. Many residents are uneasy. 
 The anxiety extends from woodsy Riverdale, which has had a spate of new condominium construction, to the suburblike eastern Bronx, where huge homes have started popping up, and to the South Bronx, where plans for luxury condominiums and high-end stores have prompted fears of gentrification. Projects either planned or under way include thousands of units of new housing, shopping malls, an $800 million baseball stadium for the Yankees -- perhaps a convention center and the borough's first major hotel.
 The frantic pace has spurred opposition to small and large projects alike, resistance that only a few years ago would have been unthinkable in the borough, which includes one of the poorest Congressional districts in the country. The aversion to the boom is due to the dizzying speed of change, and has grown as New York City has become a more desirable place to live. Property values have skyrocketed, and wealthy people who in past generations might have moved to the suburbs are now staying and looking for more space. Poor people often find they cannot leave their current homes for fear that they will not find any place as affordable. And longtime businesses fear they will not be able to compete against chain stores.
 Many are pleased about the rush. The Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., notes that construction means new jobs in a borough with the highest unemployment rate in the state, 7.6 percent. Still, that is much lower than the 11.2 percent rate in January 2003.
 ''It's a good problem to have when the arguments that people are having are not so much 'Why is nothing happening?' but 'Why is so much happening and how can we absorb it?' '' Mr. Carrion said. ''It's a fair concern that people have.''
 Dozens of residents who are critical of specific projects say they are not generally against new construction, saying their borough has been starved too long for restaurants, brand-name shops, even banks and grocery stores. 
 The Bronx remains seared in many minds as a symbol of urban decay -- an image crystallized when a fire near Yankee Stadium led Howard Cosell to announce during the 1977 World Series that the Bronx was burning. That same year, President Jimmy Carter toured Charlotte Street, which was so ravaged it looked as if it had been bombed.
 ''We all know what happened in the 70's in the Bronx,'' said Anthony Perez Cassino, a Riverdale resident who grew up in the borough. ''It's exciting to see all the development, but there's a downside -- which is that in some areas, it's happening too much, too quickly. ''
 Last year, 9,168 building permits were issued in the borough, almost double the 4,955 awarded in 1995. And the 901 permits allotted for construction of new buildings last year was triple the number issued in 1996. The value of residential property in the Bronx has increased 42 percent, to $2.5 billion, since 2000. Land in the borough is at such a premium that single-family homes are being razed for multistory apartment buildings, houses are being built in alleys and in one case, a three-story apartment building is being constructed around a neighbor's tree.
 ''We're not paying attention to the alternatives for the people who are going to be displaced,'' said William Bosworth, director of the Bronx Data Center at Lehman College. 
 In Geneva Causey's neighborhood near Yankee Stadium, residents say they learned of definitive plans for a replacement ballpark through a news conference announcing the plan in June 2005. After 38 years of living in the South Bronx, Ms. Causey believes it finally might be time to move: The proposed new Yankee Stadium would be built across the street, 90 feet from her bedroom.
 Mr. Carrion and other local politicians say the project will jump-start economic development. The City Council is expected to vote on the project in April. The Yankees want to start construction by May 1.
 The proposal calls for building a stadium on two large neighborhood parks adjacent to the current stadium. Residents fear that the patchwork of new parks that will replace them will not make up for the green space, and the popular gathering spots, that they will lose. 
 ''This is not going to be a desirable living area,'' Ms. Causey said. ''It's kind of like, 'Where do you go?' This is affordable housing for people in this neighborhood. You will kill the community off.''
 Within walking distance of Yankee Stadium is the Bronx Terminal Market, a 31-acre collection of crumbling but popular warehouse shops. As part of a $400 million redevelopment plan, the market's remaining merchants and hundreds of their employees are being evicted. The market, which dates to the 1920's, will be replaced by Gateway Center, a mall that will include national chain stores.
 Majora Carter, executive director Sustainable South Bronx, a community organization, said that officials had accepted projects that were not necessarily the best for the community because of an ''inferiority complex'' left over from the borough's leaner years. 
 ''I'm all for development, but there's nothing in the middle at all,'' Ms. Carter said. ''It's either they do a large-scale development or nothing at all. There are no neighborhood-scale shops.''
 And then there is the planned $50 million, 170,000-square-foot commercial development in the Hub, which like the proposed new Yankee Stadium, depends on government financing. It will include a Forman Mills discount retail store, a Staples and a Rite-Aid when it opens in two years. Though the area has sought chain stores for years with little luck, residents and community leaders like Mr. Rodriguez wonder if by upgrading they might upset the area's delicate economic balance. ''We've got to make sure that whatever is done is done for the benefit of everyone in the community,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.
 The eastern Bronx has similar concerns. BJ's is trying to move into the area, and City Councilman James Vacca, who represents the district, said he fears a warehouse-style store would hurt local businesses, including several new supermarkets that have opened in the area recently.
 The eastern Bronx has also had an increase in the number of huge homes being built on relatively small lots, which for years has been a problem in other areas of the city but is a relatively new phenomenon there. In response, neighborhoods like City Island and Throgs Neck have successfully lobbied for zoning laws in recent months to limit new building.
 ''We always saw ourselves as a touch of suburbia in the Bronx,'' Mr. Vacca said. ''You want to retain trees and open space, and you don't want to live on top of your neighbor.''
 In the northern Bronx -- including parts of Riverdale and Kingsbridge -- zoning laws have changed as well to keep out new multistory apartment buildings and homes deemed too large for their lots. 
 Still, modest-size houses on streets that have not been rezoned have been bought by developers and demolished to make room for huge houses in the past year. In one case, on Tulfan Terrace in Riverdale, a 20-story condominium tower was built on the space that had housed three of the cul-de-sac's eight homes.
 ''We are in the midst of the most intense development push since the apartment house boom that transformed large parts of Riverdale in the 1950's,'' said Bradford Trebach, an associate broker and general counsel for his family's real estate firm, Trebach Realty.
 Sometimes large-scale development has been greeted with praise. In Kingsbridge, a proposal to build a 207,000-square-foot shopping mall has received wide support among residents, even though some shops that the developers are in talks with, like Whole Foods, have higher prices than residents in the nearby housing projects are used to. 
 The new stores, which could include a chain bookstore, would force nearby retailers to adapt, said Fern Jaffe, who has owned the Paperbacks Plus bookstore for 36 years. 
 ''We can weather the storm,'' Ms. Jaffe said. ''Would I rather they weren't there? Of course. But development is development.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Geneva Causey has lived in the South Bronx for 38 years, but the new Yankee Stadium may push her out. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
New construction is changing the look of many Bronx neighborhoods, but some fear the effects of gentrification and the loss of green space. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 30)Chart: ''Building Boom''In the last 10 years, the number of new buildings going up in the Bronx has risen sharply.Graph tracks construction permits issued for new buildings in the Bronx since 1995.(Source by New York City Department of Buildings)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ARSON (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); SUBURBS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%) Area Planning and Renewal; Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Baseball; Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (59%) New York Yankees

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (58%) Timothy Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Bronx (NYC) ; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



410 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: MAJOR CHANGES RAISE CONCERNS ON PENSION BILL 

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
With a strong directive from the Bush administration, Congress set out more than a year ago to fashion legislation that would protect America's private pension system, tightening the rules to make sure companies set aside enough money to make good on their promises to employees.
 Then the political horse-trading began, with lawmakers, companies and lobbyists, representing everything from big Wall Street firms to tiny rural electric cooperatives, weighing in on the particulars of the Bush administration's blueprint.
In the end, lawmakers modified many of the proposed rules, allowing companies more time to cover pension shortfalls, to make more forgiving estimates about how much they will owe workers in the future, and even sometimes to assume that their workers will die younger than the rest of the population. 
 On top of those changes, companies also persuaded lawmakers to add dozens of specific measures, including a multibillion-dollar escape clause for the nation's airlines and a special exemption for the makers of Smithfield Farms hams. 
 As a result, the bill now being completed in a House-Senate conference committee, rather than strengthening the pension system, would actually weaken it, according to a little-noticed analysis by the government's pension agency. The agency's report projects that the House and Senate bills would lower corporate contributions to the already underfinanced pension system by $140 billion to $160 billion in the next three years.
 That shortfall raises the specter of more pension plans failing, pushing their liabilities on to the government, according to the agency and critics of the bills. And some companies with fully financed pensions feel unfairly penalized by having to pay higher pension premiums to make up for others' shortfalls.
 ''It takes a better economist than me to understand how reducing contributions by that much is going to protect benefits and put the system on a sounder footing,'' said Jeremy I. Bulow, an economist at Stanford University. 
 Both pieces of legislation -- one passed by the House and the other by the Senate, both by overwhelming majorities -- do contain measures that would reduce some of the lapses and inaccuracies that the current pension law permits. They would also increase the premiums that companies pay to the federal guarantor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, an agency grappling with a $23 billion deficit. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, says the bills attempt to strike the proper balance between providing for workers' pensions and allowing companies to remain competitive.
 ''My goal is to make sure that companies set aside enough money for the pensions they promise their workers,'' Mr. Grassley said. ''At the same time, we can't put burdens on plan sponsors that are too heavy.''
 The overhaul of the pension system is being undertaken at a time when it is reeling from a series of big bankruptcies, like those of United Airlines and Bethlehem Steel, which sent billions of dollars' worth of obligations to the pension agency. 
 The agency's pension insurance is limited, and a growing number of these companies' employees have discovered to their dismay that their benefits exceed the limits and that they will simply lose part of the money they had been promised. 
 The House-Senate conference committee intends to reconcile the bills before April 15, when the next round of corporate pension contributions are due. But the White House already warned in November that President Bush might veto any bill that extended too much special pension relief to individual companies and industries. 
 Legislators argue that, while they want the pension agency to be strong, they also want to encourage companies to continue offering pensions. Lately, some companies, like I.B.M. and Verizon, have moved to freeze their pension plans, arguing that the costs of their plans make it hard to compete.
 Kevin Smith, the spokesman for Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the new House majority leader, who was one of the driving forces behind pension changes, defended the House bill, arguing that many specific measures, particularly those phasing in the new rules slowly, were necessary. 
 ''Both the House and Senate pension bills represent the most comprehensive pension reforms in a generation,'' Mr. Smith said, ''so a responsible transition period for employers to meet the new, stricter rules is appropriate.'' 
 He added that he believed the pension agency's analysis did not take into account the weakened financial condition of many companies that offer pensions. 
 The law that Congress wants to amend was enacted in 1974 after a series of scandals in the auto industry in which employees of dying companies like Studebaker and Packard discovered that little or nothing had been set aside for their pensions. It gave rise to rules for the financing of pensions and to an insurance program roughly comparable to the federal insurance program for bank deposits. 
 The law did help safeguard pension benefits, but it has not been strong enough to stop some companies from falling short in their contributions. 
 When Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao sent Congress a blueprint for amending the pension law in January 2005, many companies thought her proposals were too tough. 
 From the start of the legislative process, lobbyists representing a wide swath of American business, including those from the United States Chamber of Commerce, the American Benefits Council and the Erisa Industry Committee (which represents large companies with pension plans), argued for easing the burden on companies by allowing them more latitude in estimating how long their workers would live, for example, and what they would need to set aside for future payouts. 
 The biggest single-industry pension break in the bill passed by the Senate is for the airlines, to allow them to keep their unstable pension plans going. 
 Among other things, the airlines would be given 20 years to close the shortfalls in their pension funds -- nearly three times as long as other companies. They would also be allowed to factor in highly optimistic assumptions about their investment returns when calculating how much they needed to contribute to their pension funds each year.
 The measures were written into the bill at the request of Northwest Airlines, which is in bankruptcy proceedings and is trying to keep its pensions alive, though in sharply reduced form. Northwest sought a 14-year breather on its pension contributions. 
 But then Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, said that 14 years of relief would not be enough to help Delta, a big airline based in his state, which is also operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protections. Senator Isakson amended the bill to provide 20 years of relief. After complaints from other big airlines, the relief was expanded to them all.
 The Senate bill would also help recover more than $1 billion of benefits that thousands of pilots for Braniff, PanAm, Eastern, United and other airlines have lost in bankruptcy cases going back as far as the 1980's. That amendment was made by Senator Daniel H. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii. 
 But helping those pilots would be expensive: the pension agency projected that the entire provision would increase its total obligations to retirees by more than $1 billion.
 Someone must pay for this. Currently, the pension agency finances itself in part through the insurance premiums that companies are required to pay into the system. Raising the premiums to support pilots or help other victims of corporate bankruptcies, some companies in other industries are starting to say, would beunfair.
 In a letter to shareholders last week, Edward S. Lampert, chairman of Sears Holdings, which is responsible for the pension plans of employees at Kmart and Sears, complained that his company's pension insurance premiums were going up by 60 percent, ''not in order to address any risk associated with Sears, but rather to make up for the difficulties of other companies.''
 Mr. Lampert also deplored the current pension law, which bars companies with richly financed pension plans from taking any of the surplus money out, except in rare instances. 
 Prudential Financial has the same complaint, but instead of writing to its shareholders, it took direct action in Washington, hiring William F. Sweetnam Jr., until recently the Treasury Department's senior legal adviser on employee benefits, to lobby on the issue of surplus pension assets. Mr. Sweetnam is now a principal at the Groom Law Group, a Washington law firm that specializes in employee benefits issues. 
 Prudential has a $1.2 billion surplus in its pension fund. Mr. Sweetnam was able to persuade several senators, including Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey (where Prudential has its headquarters), that the companies that are more than 15 percent overfinanced should be allowed to remove some of the surplus and use the money to buy health insurance for retirees. 
 Currently, only companies that are 25 percent overfinanced are allowed to do so. 
 Robert DeFillippo, a Prudential spokesman, said that the provision would improve pension security because in exchange for the ability to take more money out of the pension fund, the company would be required to handle the money remaining in the fund much more carefully.
 Smithfield Farms also got help in the name of strengthening the system. It bought another meat company out of bankruptcy in 2003, taking over its pension fund at the same time. That kept the bankrupt firm's pension plan alive, Smithfield said, and saved the government from having to take it over. In light of that, the company contends that it would hardly be fair to impose tougher new financing rules on Smithfield. 
 That argument caught the ear of Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, where Smithfield has major operations. Mr. DeWine added a provision that would let Smithfield follow the old pension rules until 2014, no matter what Congress does in the meantime.
 The bills would also be a boon to Wall Street by permitting financial service companies to handle more retirement money with fewer restrictions. Hedge funds, for example, would be permitted to manage more pension money without being held to the pension law's exacting standards of fiduciary duty. 
 Mr. Boehner has championed easing the restrictions on investment advice for several years. He included a provision that would permit investment firms to advise participants in 401(k) retirement plans, even if the firms' own mutual funds were among the employees' investment choices. Current pension law forbids this practice, on the thinking that it could taint investment recommendations. 
 Mr. Boehner has argued that employees need more investment advice, however, so that they can save more and earn better returns on their money. The securities industry is his top campaign contributor, providing more than $125,000 already in the 2005-06 House election cycle. 
 Mr. Smith, the spokesman for Mr. Boehner, said that the House bill would provide better quality financial advice for workers, adding that the Bush administration strongly supported that amendment.
 ''The Senate advice provision does little more than restate current law,'' he said, ''which has left workers to fend for themselves without the type of quality advice they so desperately need.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: House Majority Leader John A. Boehner has been a driving force behind changes to the pension bill. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%) Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



411 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: All but on the Ballot in Newark, but Not Yet on the Stump

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Josh Benson contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 18 

 BODY:
The story of Sharpe James seems to be stuck on pause. Even after delivering petitions Thursday to get on the ballot -- inside City Hall astride a bicycle, no less -- the clever, colorful five-term mayor of New Jersey's largest city still refuses to declare himself a candidate.
 The nonpartisan election is only weeks away. And it is true that the mayor has occasionally shown signs of feistiness. On Thursday, for example, Mayor James bragged that he could drub any opponent at the polls on May 9, including Cory Booker, the former Municipal Council member who is running again after losing a corrosive race to Mr. James in 2002. 
But if Mr. James believes he can win, as he has said, why play games? Why not simply join the race and make his case to the voters?
 Theories on the topic are blooming faster these days than the cherry blossoms in Branch Brook Park. The most popular explanation is the simplest: The mayor, now 70, is truly undecided. 
 ''At this point in his life, he may be really trying to determine if it's worth running again,'' said Walter Fields, a former political director for the New Jersey N.A.A.C.P. ''There has to be a fatigue factor where, even if your mind is telling you yes, your body may be saying, I'm not so sure.'' 
 Mr. Fields said that this week's theatrics might have simply been a last-gasp effort by Mr. James to try to prove to himself and others that he still has what it takes to win. 
 ''It's psychologically difficult to hang up the cleats,'' Mr. Fields said. ''You keep telling yourself, 'I can run; I can serve another four years,' but deep in your heart, you know what that means: another four grinding years of being the mayor of the state's largest city. I'm not sure it's as attractive as he thought or as attractive as he says it is.''
 There are some who believe that the mayor is taking his time because he feels especially confident. In the past four years, Mr. Booker, 36, has been out of elected office and less visible, working as a lawyer in Newark and with a nonprofit community group. Meanwhile the mayor has overseen the city as it ekes toward recovery. At his State of the City address in February, the mayor took credit for rising property values, a new Home Depot on Springfield Avenue and new development downtown. 
 ''His position is stronger than it was last time, and because it's stronger than it was last time, he doesn't have to'' enter the race early, said David Bositis, a senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington. ''If he decided to run, he wouldn't have to really sweat it that much.''
 Not surprisingly, the Booker campaign and the mayor's critics on the Municipal Council disagree. They see the mayor's inaction -- he still does not have a campaign manager or campaign headquarters -- as a sign of weakness. ''He's going to withdraw because he's looked at the numbers and sees he can't win,'' said Councilman Augusto Amador, who supported Mr. James in 2002 but is backing Mr. Booker this time. 
 But regardless of the mayor's logic, his skittishness has clearly affected the race. Mr. Booker, a Rhodes scholar and Yale Law School graduate, has so far failed to garner the national attention he did in 2002, while Mr. James has successfully shimmied into the spotlight -- but only as a master of political maneuverings. There is little talk here in this still-struggling city of 280,000 about competing visions, or about which candidate's proposals are most likely to cure the city's festering ills of poverty and crime.
 Even as the mayor darts to and fro, a third of Newark's children grow up poor, according to state figures, and gun violence is on the rise. Police figures show that in the first two months of this year, 19 people were killed here and 68 others were shot, putting Newark on pace to surpass last year's 97 homicides. In contrast, there were 68 killings in 2002, the year of the last election. 
 Mr. Booker on Friday said that the mayor's delaying tactics had become a distraction from the issues. ''Newarkers deserve to hear about substance,'' Mr. Booker said, after appearing at the Newark Health and Extended Care Facility near downtown. ''The candidates owe it to the people to be talking about issues that are important to them.''
 The Rev. Reginald Jackson, executive director of the Black Ministers Council of New Jersey, said that ''with the issues and problems facing the city, the mayor's strategy may amount to, 'The less I say, the less we have to discuss that.' '' He added that at some point, Mr. James owed the city an explanation about both his plans and his policies. 
 ''The mayor talks about Newark as the best city in the state,'' said Mr. Jackson, who has remained neutral in the feud between Mr. James and Mr. Booker. ''Why not raise the question, how is Newark the best when it has one of poorest performing school system in the state? How is it the greatest when it is one the poorest cities in the country?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharpe James was at City Hall in Newark on Thursday to file petitions to get on the ballot, but he hasn't decided whether to run. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETITIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE (67%); LAWYERS (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%) Mayors; Elections; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

PERSON: Damien Cave; Sharpe James; Cory Booker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



412 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Old Options Produce New Hangover

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TECHNOLOGY stocks are supposed to be the vehicle of choice for investors interested in high-powered gains. So why have many of the biggest names been such laggards lately? 
 It's not that these companies -- Intel, Dell, Texas Instruments and the like -- haven't been making money. In fact, revenues and earnings at these and other bellwether technology companies have been rising nicely. Dell's earnings grew 17.4 percent last year, Intel's rose 15.3 percent, and Texas Instruments' jumped 25 percent.
Their stocks, however, are going in the opposite direction. So far this year, Intel has lost 22 percent of its value, Dell has fallen 3 percent and Texas Instruments is down 5.9 percent. 
 To some degree, these companies are in the doldrums because the long-anticipated rebound in technology spending by corporations remains frustratingly elusive. In addition, a glut of technology gear -- like computers, disk drives and storage equipment -- is putting pressure on prices. 
 The Department of Labor said last week that computer prices were down almost 15 percent from a year earlier. That means that even as other companies can increase their profits by raising prices on their products, technology companies cannot. 
 ''There is a tremendous undertow of price pressure that is undermining unit growth in what has been a recovery period,'' said Fred Hickey, a technology stock expert and editor of The High-Tech Strategist in Nashua, N.H. ''What will happen if we have an economic downturn? Price pressure will be even more intense in this business.''
 But Mr. Hickey points to something else that is weighing on the shares of some technology companies -- the fact that even as these companies have generated billions of dollars in revenues and earnings growth in recent years, the value of what their shareholders actually own has been declining. 
 Typically, a portion of a company's profits winds up on the retained earnings line of its balance sheet, adding to its net worth. But years of excessive stock option grants to executives and employees are now catching up with these companies, Mr. Hickey said. The result is a decline in their true values. 
 ''You're seeing a destruction of book values at some of these companies,'' Mr. Hickey said, referring to the difference between a company's assets and its liabilities. ''There's been a lot of earnings shown, and yet it hasn't gone out in dividends and doesn't show up in the balance sheet. Their shareholders are growing poorer.''
 Stock options are the biggest force behind this trend, Mr. Hickey said. First, they dilute per-share earnings at the companies that dispense them, hurting existing shareholders. Then, to try to reduce the burgeoning growth in stock outstanding that results from option grants, companies spend their owners' cash to buy back shares in the open market. This cuts into the amount of earnings that can be retained by the company and that contribute to shareholder equity. 
 HERE are some data points. In the last two fiscal years, Dell has earned a total of nearly $6.6 billion. During that same period, Dell's shareholder equity has gone from $6.3 billion in 2004 to $4.1 billion this year, a decrease of 35 percent. While Dell has shown earnings growth, the value of what Dell's shareholders own at the end of the day has declined. 
 In the most recent two quarters, Mr. Hickey said, Dell's book value has declined by 48 cents a share. If this pace continues, Dell's book value will vanish in two years, he said. 
 One reason for this is Dell's aggressive purchases of its own shares. In its last fiscal year, which ended on Feb. 3, it spent $7.2 billion to buy back 205 million shares. 
 Jess Blackburn, a Dell spokesman, said the company's buybacks were a shrewd investment that would pay off. ''When the price of Dell stock goes back up, as we have faith that it will, we could sell that stock and have a very positive impact,'' he said. 
 But Dell is not alone in this trend. Intel's shareholder equity, which stood at $38.6 billion in 2004, fell 6.2 percent last year. It spent $10.6 billion buying back shares in 2005. 
 Texas Instruments' stockholder equity dropped from $13.1 billion in 2004 to $11.9 billion in 2005, a decrease of 9.2 percent. The company spent $4.15 billion buying its own shares last year. 
 Tom Beermann, an Intel spokesman, said: ''We've had a fairly significant cash position and very strong balance sheet with very little debt. Intel has been on a track to reduce its overall cash balance intentionally through buybacks and stock dividends.'' He said that ''shareholder equity would have been reduced'' as a result.
 Gail Chandler, at Texas Instruments, said: ''We intend to continue to deliver great results. We plan to continue to keep costs in line, gain market share and turn in the kind of performance that investors are looking for.'' 
 Cisco, whose shares have bucked the trend and risen 26 percent this year, saw its shareholder equity decline by 10.5 percent from 2004 to 2005. Cisco's net worth peaked at $28.6 billion in 2002; it is now $23.2 billion, almost 20 percent less. 
 During the six months ended Jan. 28, the most recent figures available, Cisco spent $4.24 billion repurchasing its shares. 
 Heather Dickinson, a spokeswoman for Cisco, said the company's stock buyback program, which began in 2001, had reduced its share count by 16.5 percent. ''Cisco believes that for now, our share repurchase program, combined with ongoing strategic investments in our business and maintaining a strong cash balance, are in the best interest of our shareholders.'' 
 The book values of technology companies have also been hurt by the expensive acquisitions they made to keep their earnings growth going, Mr. Hickey said. Costly write-downs often follow these optimistic purchases, reducing the company's overall values. ''We know the history of acquisitions have not been good in the tech world,'' he said. ''NCR and AT&T. Compaq and Digital Equipment and Tandem. Intel poured all sorts of money into smaller acquisitions.'' 
 (Mr. Hickey has made no bets on the companies mentioned here except for Intel; he owns put options on the company's shares, but his position amounts to less than 0.5 percent of his portfolio.)
 In better times, technology companies could use their high-flying shares to buy other concerns. Now that the shares are closer to earth, they are borrowing to make acquisitions. Last month, for example, Cisco raised $6.5 billion in bonds, its first debt offering, to help finance its $6.9 billion purchase of Scientific-Atlanta. Borrowing costs will also make a dent in shareholder equity.
 ''Intel's stock price is the same as it was in 1997; Dell is the same price as 1998,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''These big-name companies are not driving any kind of real value for their shareholders and not issuing much in the way of dividends. Instead there has been a wealth transfer from shareholders to company management.'' 
 After the wild and crazy stock option party of the 1990's, it should surprise no one that one heck of a hangover might result. But it is unfortunate that while managers and employees were the ones overserved, it is the shareholders who feel the most pain.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Dell's shareholder equity, end of fiscal years, in billions, since 2002.(Source by Dell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (93%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp; Dell Inc; Texas Instruments Inc

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (93%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



413 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Sundown for the Last Big Local Bank

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY; Eric Dash contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THERE'S the North Fork Theater at Westbury, formerly the Music Fair. There's North Fork Hall, the main theater at the Tilles Center.
 And then are the Fourth of July Fireworks at Jones Beach, sponsored by -- who else? -- North Fork. Not to mention the 122 bank branches across Long Island that bear the name North Fork and the bank's trademark yellow sunburst sign.
North Fork Bancorporation's agreement to be acquired by Capital One had been rumored for a while, but its announcement last Monday still sent ripples throughout Long Island, from the small business owners who rely on their local branch to handle their finances to the arts groups that depend on the bank's charitable giving. 
 Beyond being a highly visible corporate presence, North Fork Bank is also the last of a breed. When it disappears into Capital One, Long Island will be left with no major commercial bank of its own. (The next largest homegrown commercial bank, the State Bank of Long Island, is about one-fortieth the size of North Fork.) 
 Out-of-town banks, mainly from New York City, have taken an important hand in the Island's banking market for a half-century, going back to the rapid suburbanization after World War II. But they were often viewed suspiciously by local business leaders, who were concerned about the city banks using the suburbs as little more than ''deposit farms,'' gathering in capital that would be invested elsewhere.
 That led to the emergence of dynamic Island-based banks like Franklin National and Meadowbrook National (later National Bank of North America), which grew rapidly while investing locally. 
 Island banks introduced service innovations like evening hours, the first drive-up windows and some of the first credit cards. Eventually their strengths made them takeover targets, and the same has now happened to North Fork.
 Business and government leaders say that while they are concerned about potential job losses from the North Fork-Capital One merger, they hope the deal will ultimately help the local economy. The prospect of seeing North Fork signs vanish from the landscape, though -- well, that is another matter. 
 ''North Fork personifies Long Island and the East End, where their roots were,'' said Mitchell H. Pally, a vice president of the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business and civic organization. ''It's one of the few banks left that actually has a Long Island name in its name, and losing that will have a big perception impact.''
 David E. Kapell, the mayor of Greenport, on the eastern end of the (geographic) North Fork, called the deal ''just another step toward the homogenization and regionalization of the Long Island economy.''
 He said that the bank clearly had been shifting its focus westward and beyond the Island for some time, especially after it moved its headquarters to Melville from Mattituck in the mid-1990's. ''As a matter of reality, it's been some time since it was truly a local bank,'' he said.
 The Island's rich history of local banking has been waning for a while, said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist at the Long Island Association. 
 ''It's all part of a trend toward a reduced number of players in all business and banking markets,'' she said. ''And the pace of acquisitions has accelerated as it has become more and more competitive.''
 Long Island has seen wave after wave of mergers and consolidations of banks, dating back to the Great Depression. And nearly every village Main Street seems to feature a grand old Greek Revival building facade with a bygone bank's name still incised in the stonework.
 But while others were being swallowed up, North Fork had been the hunter rather than the hunted. Over the last 20 years, North Fork acquired 13 smaller banks and thrift institutions as it moved west from rural Southold to Manhattan and beyond. In 1992, the bank had $2.7 billion in assets; today it is the nation's 16th-largest bank with $58 billion in assets and more than 350 branches.
 Richard M. Bivone, president of the Nassau Council of Chambers of Commerce, said North Fork has always been active in local chambers of commerce and has strong ties with local merchants. 
 ''That's the way they always have done business,'' Mr. Bivone said, ''and they need to continue to be a local bank, even if they're backed by an out-of-town corporation.'' 
 John A. Kanas, North Fork's longtime chairman and chief executive, kept the bank on an independent course for years. But ultimately, Mr. Kanas said, rising interest rates, a slowing housing market and intense competition, especially in New York City, created conditions he called ''banker's hell.'' So about a year ago, the bank began soliciting offers.
 Capital One's strength has been in credit cards and direct marketing, not branch banking. By paying $14.6 billion in cash and stock to acquire North Fork, Capital One adds a large retail customer base and longstanding small-business relationships. 
 Potential cost savings are a key to nearly any merger, but Mr. Kanas, who will stay on as an executive with the merged entity, said it was too soon to tell how many jobs might be eliminated. The branches will probably be unaffected; if anything, more may be opened, he said. But some of the 1,200 to 1,300 back-office workers in Melville, Mattituck and Secaucus, N.J., may be cut, he said.
 Despite North Fork's strong franchise, its brand name will disappear after the merger: all the branches will have a Capital One sign over the door by sometime next year.
 ''Obviously, that has been an emotional subject back home in New York,'' said Mr. Kanas, who has been as much a fixture on Long Island as the bank itself. ''But I'm here to make the best decision for the most people, and unfortunately that's the sacrifice we have to make.''
 Dr. Kamer, the economist, said the name change would definitely have a psychological impact on the Island. ''It'll be like when Grumman disappeared and became Northrup Grumman,'' she said. ''It's a sign that more and more businesses are being owned by corporate entities that are off of Long Island.''
 Deeper pockets can help strengthen the businesses, she said, ''but on the other hand, you won't get that homegrown fuzzy feeling that you may be accustomed to anymore.''
 NORTH FORK worked hard over the years to nurture that feeling. Desmond Ryan, executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a developers' group, said Mr. Kanas was well known in development and business circles. 
 ''There were probably quite a few large corporate and personal loans done through him over a cup of coffee,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''So many banking institutions these days are bottom-line driven, and they lack the personal touch, but that wasn't the case here.''
 The bank also developed a more prominent role in the community through its charitable donations.
 The main theater at the Tilles Center was named for North Fork in 2004 after the bank made a $3 million donation toward a major renovation. 
 The bank also sponsors events at the center, including an appearance by Bill Cosby this year. Elliott Sroka, the center's executive director, said ''we have a very special relationship in this case,'' noting that Mr. Kanas is an alumnus of Long Island University and now serves on its board.
 As for the name of the main hall, Mr. Sroka said, ''there will be discussion on that, and it will be up to the lawyers and the marketing people.''
 Dr. Kamer said that local nonprofit organizations were understandably concerned about what the deal means for their futures. ''Locally based corporations are more likely to be more in tune with the local charitable needs,'' she said.
 Mr. Kanas said the bank's commitment to the local community would not change. ''One of the things that attracted Capital One to North Fork was the strong ties that we have with our customers and the community,'' he said. ''I expect that though we will be renamed, we will be every bit as responsible and committed to Long Island charities as we have been.''
 North Fork's rapid expansion from a single Manhattan branch in 1997 to 50 across the city today may have helped raise the profile of its namesake stretch of the East End, where house prices have soared as city dwellers sought second homes there instead of in the Hamptons. 
 But Mr. Kapell, Greenport's mayor, said there is such a thing as overexposure. ''Anything that takes a little pressure off real estate on the North Fork might be a good thing,'' he said. ''I don't think the North Fork will be damaged by having a somewhat lower profile in Manhattan.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John A. Kanas, North Fork's chairman and chief executive, will stay on as an executive when Capital One acquires control and puts its own name on bank branches like this one in Uniondale. (Photos by Barton Silverman/The New York Times [above]
 Deirdre Brennan [right])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (85%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SUBURBS (65%); TRENDS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (96%); VALLEY NATIONAL BANCORP (55%); BANK OF NORTH AMERICA BANCORP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: North Fork Bancorp Inc; Capital One Financial Corp

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (96%); VLY (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



414 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Hell's Kitchen, Swept Out And Remodeled 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It has been a long time since Hell's Kitchen earned its fearsome reputation, the one burnished by Hollywood with the gang fights of ''West Side Story'' and by the tabloids with the Capeman Murders of 1959.
 Yet even during its worst times Hell's Kitchen was always, well, a neighborhood, made up of blue-collar families in walk-up tenements and theater people who wanted to live close to their jobs. For 15 years it has been a neighborhood on a comeback, with the grip of drugs, prostitution and gangs weakening, and railroad flats fetching penthouse prices.
But what the gangs and drugs couldn't do, gentrification is accomplishing -- putting pressure to leave on those crusty characters who gave Hell's Kitchen its raffish charm. 
 ''The good news is we succeeded,'' said Chuck Spence, president of the West 44th Street Block Association. ''The bad news is we made it so desirable that real estate values popped up, which is really the driving factor behind our losing some of the Old World charm.'' 
 The endangered species include people like Tom Shea, 83, a retired elevator operator who growls, ''I was born in the Kitchen and I'm going to be carried out in the Kitchen,'' and Kostas Zimarakis, 67, a retired commercial artist who came from the Greek island of Chios in 1980 and settled in a hundred-year-old tenement near the Hudson River because he could gaze at boats sailing by just as he had at home.
 The scruffily bearded Mr. Zimarakis said he had had to sue his landlord because the heat in his three-room, $930-a-month railroad flat was turned off for days at a time and the cooking gas for almost six months, all while the landlord was renovating the tenement's three lower floors to attract higher-paying renters. Mr. Shea, a wiry man with silvery hair, pays $619 a month for a rent-stabilized railroad flat, but says his landlord ''would be happy to get rid of me'' since he could get two or three times that amount. ''Eventually this avenue is going to be just the rich or the extreme poor,'' Mr. Shea said. 
 Call it Hell's Renovated Kitchen, so ubiquitous are the signs that the neighborhood's character is scaling upward. Low-income residents are selling once-shabby apartments they bought for just $250 in a city co-op program more than two decades ago and getting $300,000 for them. Anna Levin, a co-chairman of the land use committee for Community Board 4, said the city and co-op boards were ignoring rules charging such sellers a flip tax. 
 ''It takes a lot of backbone for one of these co-op boards to stand up to their neighbors and say, 'This co-op is about something more than people getting rich; it's about people like us continuing to live in the neighborhood,' '' Ms. Levin said. 
 Meanwhile, builders are transforming the low-rise scale of Hell's Kitchen by putting up terraced high-rises on 42nd Street and 57th Street and at least four new ones along Eighth and 10th Avenues. Restaurants are sprouting on Ninth Avenue -- several using the gritty Hell's Kitchen in their names, though many spurn it in favor of the more sedate Clinton. Some white-tablecloth spots like Taboon and 44 1/2 Cafe have staked ground on 10th Avenue, a street once considered so seedy that it inspired Richard Rodgers to compose the jazz ballet ''Slaughter on 10th Avenue.'' 
 ''The neighborhood character is up in the air right now, and we're trying to get control,'' said Bob Kalin, a resident and a tenant organizer for Housing Conservation Coordinators, a neighborhood group. ''Twenty years ago a lot of people wouldn't walk down Ninth Avenue. Now it's a restaurant scene. If you were a certain kind of person you'd avoid 10th Avenue. Now it's a destination.''
 Census figures confirm the changes. Between 1990 and 2000 the median household income in inflation-adjusted dollars increased to $46,951 from $36,812 and the average household income nearly doubled to $72,109.
 Trying to slow down the tide of change are feisty local groups like Mr. Kalin's who have been taking landlords to court for shortchanging tenants, and negotiating with others to get them to continue accepting federal rent subsidies. They have been overhauling shopworn buildings as well.
 Encore Community Services will soon complete a federally financed building of 84 apartments for low-income elderly tenants on 10th Avenue between 51st and 52nd Streets. The Clinton Association for a Renewed Environment, a housing group formed to combat the gentrifying impact of the square-block skyscraper Worldwide Plaza, got the Zeckendorf development organization to renovate five neighborhood buildings and is undertaking a new 96-apartment building, mostly for low-income tenants, at 52nd Street and 11th Avenue. 
 Hell's Kitchen was always a neighborhood of immigrant or blue-collar strivers. For decades, Irish, Italians and Greeks, working as longshoremen or stagehands, made up the bulk of the population; by the 1940's, migrants from Puerto Rico's rural poverty formed an increasing slice. In this ethnic mix, teenagers banded together for self-protection, giving rise to the mythical Jets and Sharks of ''West Side Story.'' But others say the reputation for violent crime was exaggerated -- the so-called Capeman Murders of two neighborhood teenagers was committed at a West 46th Street playground by young men from outside the neighborhood, one wearing a cape, the other brandishing a sharp umbrella. 
 ''It wasn't like the Hispanics on one side and the Irish on the other,'' said Mary D'Elia, a longtime resident. ''We were all together.''
 A milestone in the neighborhood's evolution was the opening in 1977 of Manhattan Plaza, two Mitchell-Lama government-subsidized rental towers with 3,500 tenants where 70 percent of the apartments were reserved for workers in the performing arts. Celebrities like Tennessee Williams, Larry David and John Coltrane all lived there during less profitable stretches of their careers.
 The neighborhood was also stabilized by its designation in 1974 as the special Clinton preservation district to ward off high-rise development. Demolition of buildings in most of the blocks from 43rd to 56th Street west of Eighth Avenue and zigzagging to 10th and sometimes 11th Avenue requires permits from the City Planning Commission. But tenant advocates say the demand for Manhattan apartments has spurred landlords seeking to multiply their earnings to find ways to encourage tenants to leave.
 ''We're like a big plum, and all the real estate people are salivating, and if we don't watch it we'll become the next Columbus Avenue,'' said Marisa Redanty, a 51-year-old actress who heads the Manhattan Plaza tenants association. 
 Lost in the neighborhood's transformation are a lot of the mom-and-pop shops that gave Hell's Kitchen its human scale, like the Ninth Avenue Cheese Shop, Mike's Bar and Grill and other watering holes, and rice and bean eateries. A Duane Reade store recently replaced a longtime pharmacy, where, Ms. D'Elia said, ''They knew you, they knew what medicine you were taking.''
 Mr. Zimarakis, the retired commercial artist, said he was once drawn to the neighborhood for its friendliness but now sees younger people ''walking all by themselves.''
 ''They like their sense of privacy. I do not think they have an interest in getting to know people.'' The change makes him feel lonelier, he said.
 ''You cannot talk to a building,'' he said. ''But a person can make your day. It lights up your soul.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the gentrification of the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan listed a celebrity erroneously among those who have lived in Manhattan Plaza, a government-subsidized rental complex that opened in 1977 largely for tenants in the performing arts. The saxophonist John Coltrane, who died in 1967, was not a tenant.
An article on Sunday about the gentrification of the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan listed a celebrity erroneously among those who have lived in Manhattan Plaza, a government-subsidized rental complex that opened in 1977 largely for tenants in the performing arts. The saxophonist John Coltrane, who died in 1967, was not a tenant.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The gang members in ''West Side Story'' might not fit in at the trendy Chelsea Grill on Ninth Avenue. ''Twenty years ago a lot of people wouldn't walk down Ninth Avenue. Now it's a restaurant scene,'' said one resident. (Photo by Jessica Dimmock for The New York Times)(pg. 29)
 Carl Mazzella, owner of Mazzella's Market, in his office. The store has been selling produce in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood for 75 years. (Photographs by Jessica Dimmock for The New York Times)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (75%); RENT CONTROL (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%) 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (90%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%)

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (54%) New York City; Hell's Kitchen (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



415 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Up Front; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 339 words

BYLINE: By The Editors

 BODY:
''THE talk of political Washington'' is how Warren Weaver Jr., a reporter for The New York Times, described ''The Emerging Republican Majority'' in September 1969 in the pages of the Book Review. Its author, Kevin Phillips, was a 28-year-old lawyer working under his mentor, Attorney General John Mitchell, in the Nixon Justice Department. Weaver called his work ''one of the most provocative political books of these perplexing days'' but found it ''not a little depressing to read,'' in large part because ''full racial polarization is an essential ingredient of Phillips's political pragmatism.'' 
As Alan Brinkley points out this week in his Page 1 review of ''American Theocracy,'' Phillips has long been having second thoughts about the conservative coalition he helped to fashion. But he was undeniably prescient back in the 60's. ''The net effect of the Phillips tract,'' Weaver wrote, ''is to reassure the patchwork constituency stitched together by Richard Nixon in 1968 that it . . . was only the precursor of larger and solider majorities to come.'' National Review said about Phillips's book, ''Alongside its rows of census data, its array of ethnic, religious and economic fact, its charts and maps and recurring syntheses of all these ingredients, the work of the conventional soothsayers looks somehow thin and unsubstantial.'' And another reviewer at the time warned that the book would ''give G.O.P. liberals fits''; first they were driven to distraction, and then to extinction. The Editors

On the Web
Featured Author: A retrospective on the career of Kevin Phillips, the author of ''American Theocracy.''
 Slide Show: Images from ''Slavery in New York,'' edited by Ira Berlin and Leslie M. Harris.
 First Chapters: Excerpts from ''The Doctor's Daughter,'' by Hilma Wolitzer; ''A Million Nightingales,'' by Susan Straight; and other books.
 Podcast: Subscribe to an audio program featuring the editors of the Book Review discussing the week's issue.
 Search: A free archive of book reviews since 1981. nytimes.com/books


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WRITERS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); LITERATURE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RELIGION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CENSUS (53%); PODCASTING (50%) Books and Literature

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%) Alan Brinkley; Kevin Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



416 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1915 words

HEADLINE: Chilling Budget Gap? It Gets Worse

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
SUPPOSE Gov. Jon S. Corzine arrived at the office Monday to find $4 billion and change in his desk drawer. His budget address on Tuesday could be very short. The government could roll on as before.
 Until next year, when he would have to find $5 billion, and the year after that, $6 billion.
 By the Corzine administration's own projections, the state's expenses will rise 40 percent over the next four years, to nearly $40 billion, if nothing is done to check the galloping increases in health care and pension costs and other commitments that the state has made. The chasm between spending and revenue would grow ever wider, by $750 million to $1.25 billion a year. 
 It is a point that Mr. Corzine has been trying to make to many people who do not want to know more than they have to beyond the start of the next fiscal year on July 1: The numbers portend bigger government, more expensive government and increasingly desperate government -- more or less forever, and starting immediately. 
 ''This isn't even a question of leaving it to our kids, bad as that is,'' said Richard C. Leone, a former state treasurer who led Mr. Corzine's transition team. ''We can't wait that long.''
 At this point, the administration has every interest in sketching alarming scenarios, the better to argue that the tax increases that Mr. Corzine is likely to propose on Tuesday are the least he can do to head off fiscal ruin. But outsiders generally agree that the projections are realistic, and that -- even more alarming -- New Jersey will have a hard time catching up with costs that are growing faster than the economy: health care and pensions for public employees, Medicaid, school construction and aid to poor districts.
 Tim Blake, the senior vice president for state ratings at Moody's Investors Service, said New Jersey was ''stable'' for now, but had little prospect of improving its fairly dismal bond rating, Aa3, which it shares with about a dozen states just above the bottom rung, which is occupied by California and Louisiana. 
 In its aging population, high-cost climate and relatively slow growth, New Jersey shares problems with states like New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Illinois. Yet New Jersey still has disadvantages that many of the others do not. 
 New Jersey has been left out of studies and recent news reports that describe sunnier days for state governments around the nation, mostly because its budget shortfall is one of the largest, but also, Mr. Blake said, because of long-term liabilities that are very hard to contain. 
 At the same time, the state in the last decade has been unusually reckless by any standard. It borrowed against all of its money from the nationwide tobacco settlement -- netting about $2.8 billion -- which is to be disbursed over 25 years, and spent it in two years. It borrowed another $2.8 billion to shore up the pension fund and then stopped making contributions, which in the last few years would have been about $1 billion annually. And it borrowed billions more to cover operating expenses --until the State Supreme Court ruled in 2004 that that was unconstitutional. It tapped out the reserves in the unemployment fund and let the Transportation Trust Fund go broke. 
 In the end the budget, which was $12 billion in 1990, grew to $20 billion in 2000 and $28 billion in 2005.
 As for the prospect of scraping by every year, the new state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow, said, ''What we're experiencing this year is going to continue to be the case.''

'Home Rule Is Killing Us'
 On the list of expenses expected to balloon in the next decade, the biggest items are Medicaid for the poor as well as health care and pensions for public employees. The latter are a large group in New Jersey, since it includes retired local government and school employees.
 Mr. Blake said health care costs for retirees make up 3.5 percent of New Jersey's total budget --about double the percentage in New York and Pennsylvania, which, like most states, leave teacher benefits and pensions to local governments. 
 At the same time, the multiplicity of local governments and school districts drives up the number of public employees. ''The cost of home rule is killing us,'' Philip D. Murphy, the chairman of a panel appointed to review state benefits, told a General Assembly committee last week. 
 Mr. Murphy's committee estimated that health and pension benefits, which were 8 percent of the budget in the last fiscal year, would eat up more than 21 percent of the budget by 2010 if the state cannot renegotiate its contracts. 
 Health benefits in particular -- generous by private sector standards -- are rising at ruinous rates, the committee found. It estimated that costs to the state in the pay-as-you-go system would go up about 18 percent a year over the next few years. For now, state workers' co-pay is $3 for a generic drug prescription, and $5 for a visit to the doctor.
 The cost of pensions is, likewise, expected to grow much faster than revenue. Moreover, the system has been bled because the state deferred its annual payments to the funds starting during the administration of Gov. Christie Whitman.
 ''The fact that we didn't put any money into these funds for seven years is morally indefensible,'' said Orin Kramer, the chairman of the State Investment Council, which oversees the funds. 
 Now the system needs an immediate infusion of more than $8 billion from the state and $3 billion from local government employers, in the estimate of the benefits review panel -- a price tag that some describe as unrealistically low. 
 Mr. Kramer declined to put a number on the deficit in an interview last week. But recently, using more conservative assumptions about the return on investments than the governor's panel did, he estimated the deficit at more than $30 billion. 
 Mr. Corzine is expected to propose a payment of $1.8 billion next year, which satisfies the current obligation. But like a middle-aged worker trying to plump up a long-starved retirement account, the state will in any event pay more in the long run. 
 The benefits review panel, which was appointed by former Gov. Richard J. Codey, recommended changes to the pension agreements as it did to the health care benefits. For one thing, it urged raising the retirement age to 60 from 55.
 The group that Mr. Corzine had assembled during his transition was blunter: ''New Jersey taxpayers cannot afford to fund over 20 years of post-retirement benefits for state and local workers.'' 
 Mr. Murphy's panel report also scolded the Legislature for fattening benefits -- raising most pensions by 9 percent in a single vote in 2001, for example, adding $4.2 billion to the state's liabilities in what the committee called ''a rush to grant political favors.''

Report on Inflated Pensions
 Last week, legislators themselves were issuing angry statements after the State Commission of Investigation reported pension-padding and manipulation among school administrators that has cost taxpayers millions of dollars. The inflated pensions represent only a drop in the state's bucket of pension liabilities, but citizens groups as well as elected officials expressed dismay. 
 Then there is the matter of school aid, growing faster than the rate of inflation. New Jersey spends less of its state budget on schools than most states do, but the cost is still one-third of the budget, and the state ranks fourth in the nation in per-pupil spending. 
 Much of the expected increase in school spending will consist of aid to the state's 30 poorest school districts. Many elected officials, including Mr. Corzine, suggest that some of these districts -- especially those undergoing gentrification, like Hoboken -- can be tapped for a bigger share of their own expenses. 
 Still, the aid has been mandated by the State Supreme Court, and the state is also committed by law to its huge school construction program, now financially depleted and under investigation because of enormous overruns.
 As many of the state's fixed costs shoot up, Mr. Corzine must find new ''recurring revenues'' -- that is, taxes -- that will help increase the state's total tax take faster than the usual economic growth of 3 to 4 percent a year. 
 At the same time, of course, the state must bring down anticipated spending increases. Mr. Abelow, examining a graph of projections that showed a slowly rising line representing inflation and a much steeper one for expenses, said, ''We've got to find a way to change the trajectory.'' 
 To do that, Senator Leonard Lance, the minority leader and a vocal fiscal conservative, wants constitutional spending limits and a reclassification of some of the school districts that receive court-ordered aid. 
 It was Mr. Lance who went to the State Supreme Court in 2004 to halt state borrowing to cover operating expenses. The court, ruling that the bonding violated the constitutional requirement of a balanced state budget, ended what had become an annual habit and created a hole that Mr. Codey had to scrape to fill last year. 
 Mr. Corzine and Mr. Abelow have sworn off such one-shot revenue raisers and similar tricks to balance the budget, although they are looking at state assets -- Horizon Blue Cross and Blue Shield is most often mentioned -- for revenue. 
 Still, revenue is generally healthy. The problem is spending.
 The state might squeeze its Medicaid program, which has been growing at 14 percent a year since 2002. Still, one former state treasurer said, ''If you look at what's in the budget, like Medicaid, you can't cut a lot of stuff, unless you're cruel.''

A Delicate Balance
 Fiscal experts say changes in pension rules can reduce future costs, though very little can be done now. More important, the state employee unions can be expected to resist benefit cuts fiercely in negotiating new contracts next year. 
 This will be a delicate issue for Mr. Corzine. While his administration bargains with the workers, Republicans who want more concessions can be expected to question the governor's romantic relationship with the head of the largest state workers' union. As Mr. Corzine has acknowledged, he gave the union president, Carla Katz, a $470,000 mortgage several years ago and forgave it after the couple broke up. 
 So far, Mr. Corzine is considering layoffs of some political appointees and other nonunion workers, recent news reports have said, but not union members. 
 For all of his lecturing about frugality, Mr. Corzine offers one billion-dollar item that is puzzling to everyone: He has promised to restore the property-tax rebates, which Mr. Codey slashed last year, and raise them by another 10 percent.
 ''How strange,'' said David P. Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. 
 Mr. Rebovich said the governor was proposing to do exactly what Gov. James E. McGreevey did: freeze aid to towns and school districts, which would prompt a 6 or 7 percent increase in property taxes, and then send checks to homeowners that would cover the increase. 
 Of course, Mr. Rebovich added: ''New Jerseyans don't really associate their rebate checks with paying their property taxes. They view them as a present from the state.''
 Mr. Corzine made the promise during a rough campaign, when his Republican opponent, Douglas R. Forrester, was telling voters he would cut their property taxes 30 percent over three years.
 Interestingly, polls showed that the overwhelming majority of voters did not believe either one of them.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about New Jersey's growing budget deficit referred incorrectly to Horizon Blue Cross as an example of an asset that could be privatized to generate revenue. It is an independent nonprofit corporation, not owned by the state.
An article last Sunday about New Jersey's growing budget deficit referred incorrectly to Horizon Blue Cross as an example of an asset that could be privatized to generate revenue. It is an independent nonprofit corporation, not owned by the state.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Jon S. Corzine will likely propose tax increases in his budget address on Tuesday in an effort to head off fiscal ruin. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Top, Jon S. Corzine speaking at a town meeting at Rowan University and, above, addressing an audience at Montclair State while Bradley I. Abelow, the state treasurer, looked on. Also in attendance at Rowan were, far right, Lewis B. Thurston, a former chief of staff, and Richard Leone, a former state treasurer. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Graph: ''Growing Expenses''State appropriations have risen sharply in recent years.Graph tracks state appropriations since 1997. (Source by New Jersey Department of the Treasury)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MEDICAID (77%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AGING TRENDS (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%); TAX INCREASES (69%); TAX LAW (64%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (62%); AGING (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



417 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: Cryan's Staggering Start 

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: UNION 

 BODY:
IN a matter of weeks, Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, the new chairman of the state Democratic Party, found himself entangled in two controversies -- one stranger than the next -- propelling him from the shadows to the spotlight. 
 It was not the kind of introduction a politician longs for.
 Indeed, when he was asked last week how long he hoped to serve in his new post, Mr. Cryan burst out laughing. ''Well, the way things are going '' he said, hardly needing to finish the thought. ''What time is it?''
 With a sterling political pedigree and an aptitude for policy and partisanship, Mr. Cryan has so far had a short career in state politics typified by easy success: powerful positions on the Appropriations and Human Services Committees, a leading role in the Democratic caucus and a prominent role on the state party committee, all since arriving at the General Assembly four years ago. 
 He is, as David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University, put it, ''a serious person who clearly wants to make his mark in politics.''
 But just as Mr. Cryan was to ascend to the chairmanship of the state party -- his crowning achievement to this point and the same position once held by his father -- he became caught up in these two odd dust-ups. 
 The first came when a developer with a history of making spectacular accusations claimed in January that the assemblyman -- who is also an under sheriff in Union County -- once accepted an unreported cash contribution of $2,000. The charge was deemed to be not credible after a two-week investigation by the state attorney general's office, but Mr. Cryan was left to endure an uncomfortable limbo as his selection was put in jeopardy.
 Then, within days of finally being named state chairman last month, Mr. Cryan was caught up in another bizarre turn of events, this one involving a lobbyist and former Corzine campaign worker who was arrested for trying to break into Mr. Cryan's car while he was at work in the State House. But what might have been an unusual yet insignificant story turned into a news media frenzy when it was learned that the woman's $5,000 bail had been posted by Gov. Jon S. Corzine himself.
 ''It's been distracting,'' Mr. Cryan said in an interview in his legislative office on Union's main commercial strip. ''I think a chairman's role is to develop the policies, procedures and infrastructure to allow us to continue to grow, and I've lost time because of the distractions.''
 He added that he thought the governor's attempts to convey a message preparing New Jersey for tough budgetary decisions had been diluted, saying that ''to lose any time sharing that and making sure that message is out is always a step backwards.'' 

'We're Moving On'
 Now, hoping that the worst of the controversy is behind him, Mr. Cryan says that he is looking forward to fulfilling the tasks he was brought in to achieve: helping Mr. Corzine sell what is sure to be a painful budget, aiding Senator Robert Menendez through a potentially difficult election campaign and raising money for the legislative elections next year.
 ''We're moving on with our business,'' he said.
 Friends of Mr. Cryan say that his background has helped him weather this roughest patch. ''It hasn't been easy, but he comes from a political family, and they would talk about politics all the time,'' said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, who shares a district office with Mr. Cryan. ''It was their entertainment in that family, and that was as good a preparation for the double barrels that hit him as anything.''
 Despite the unwelcome attention for Mr. Cryan, his ascension to the state chairmanship represents a career path that in some ways seems preordained. 
 To say that Mr. Cryan grew up around politics is an understatement. He was immersed in it for as long as he can remember, having grown up among a group of influential Irish-American political families from Essex County that produced John Cryan, Ray Durkin, Thomas Giblin and Philip Keegan -- who together had a lock on the state party chairmanship for more than 12 years. 

On the Block-Party Circuit
 Mr. Cryan, who these days has thinning hair and a thickening midsection, spent much of his youth tagging along with his father -- who was a three-term sheriff in Essex County -- as they met and greeted voters at block parties and picnics, in restaurants and in bars. 
 ''In those days,'' he said, ''it would be people sitting at the bar rubbing my head and giving me a dollar, saying 'Don't tell your father.' ''
 Then there are the connections to the old country, which have remained uncommonly strong for Mr. Cryan. When the elder Mr. Cryan died last year, he was the subject of tributes not only in the New Jersey newspapers, but also in the Roscommon Herald. But by then his son had already established himself as a guardian of those ties, forming the Irish American Society of Union, becoming an active member of the Union St. Patrick's Day Parade committee and even serving one year as grand marshal of the Woodbridge parade.
 And, of course, father and son had one other professional trait in common; after years working at an aviation technology company, Mr. Cryan joined his father in the family's well-known restaurant business, Cryan's, which is still operating in South Orange. 
 The similarities between father and son have only been a help to him in his career, Mr. Cryan said.
 ''Given my dad's reputation for being what he was, people expect the same out of you, and that's fine with me,'' he said. ''When the standards are high, that's only a good thing.'' 
 Not that Mr. Cryan's latest career move was as clear-cut as everything else has seemed to be. Some of his closest associates say that the assemblyman was dispirited enough by the scrutiny that followed the developer's accusation for him to have considered walking away from the post he had coveted since entering politics.
 ''He asked me at one point if he should release Governor Corzine from his obligations to support him,'' Mr. Lesniak recalled. ''He was concerned there might be a spillover effect.'' 
 But, as Mr. Cryan said, he ultimately decided that quitting would have been more painful than sticking it out, and would have seemed to some like an admission of wrongdoing. 

Pride in Political Toughness
 ''The first thing I thought was from the perspective of what's best for the state party and for the governor -- he was just coming in, and I wasn't looking to take any wind out of his sails,'' he said. ''But let's face it, if I had said no thanks, to a lot of people that would have said I was guilty.''
 And so the official who prides himself on his political toughness born both of family heritage and ethnicity -- he has a picture on the wall taken with Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness -- did what he believed was the only acceptable thing. He stayed.
 Although the process was painful, that choice was eventually vindicated when the accusation was found to be baseless and he was confirmed as chairman. 
 ''By Jon setting the standard so high and clearing it so quickly, you don't have to look back,'' Mr. Cryan said.
 The second incident was somewhat more complicated, not only because it involved the governor -- who subsequently issued an apology for his lapse in judgment when he provided the bail money -- but also because it was a much more personal affair. 
 Like Mr. Cryan, the woman who broke into his car, Karen Golding, also comes from a prominent Irish-American family from Essex County. What's more, Ms. Golding knew the Cryan family well: she was honored in 2004 by the Cryan Association, a civic group run by the family, and she was a regular visitor to the bedside of Mr. Cryan's father before he died of lung cancer in February 2005. She is awaiting a court hearing in Union County, where she was taken after her arrest. 
 The story of exactly what led to and followed that incident -- which has not yet been resolved in court -- may be somewhat slower to fade, with some Republicans raising questions about the way the affair was handled. 
 ''Because he's an elected official, there's a higher standard for him,'' said Tom Wilson, the state Republican Party chairman, who said that he liked Mr. Cryan personally. ''There are some legitimate questions about this incident. Did Joe Cryan receive preferential treatment here?'' 
 But Mr. Rebovich, the political science professor, said that the incident was unlikely to hinder Mr. Cryan over the long term in his capacity as state chairman.
 ''I think he'll be able to do his job, and that this isn't going to be a problem for him,'' Mr. Rebovich said. ''It's an embarrassment, and it sidetracked him -- the timing couldn't have been worse. But the attention now is going to shift to the state budget crisis. And how Cryan can lead Democrats in New Jersey through all of that will be the real test.''

Finally, Tackling the Job
 For his part, Mr. Cryan would only say of the incident that he hopes ''it turns out well for everyone.'' 
 About his task as the new state chairman in trying economic times, Mr. Cryan said that he intended to follow an aggressive plan of attack. ''I think I can finally get down to doing my job, which is to grow this party,'' he said.
 Still, given the success the state Democrats have had in recent years -- they now control the State Senate and Assembly, the governorship and both United States Senate seats -- Mr. Cryan said he is just ''playing to tie'' the success of his predecessor, Assemblywoman Bonnie Watson Coleman. 
 For all he has been through in recent weeks, Mr. Cryan insisted these two incidents did not make for his toughest experience -- not even close.
 ''This is nothing compared to organizing the St. Patrick's Day Parade,'' he said. ''That's the hardest thing I've ever done. Easily.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Assemblyman Joseph Cryan was quickly thrown into the limelight just as he was to take the helm of the state party. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Karen Golding, a former Corzine campaign worker, was arrested last month on charges of trying to break into Assemblyman Joseph Cryan's car, which was parked at the State House. (Photo by Horace R. Corbin/The Westfield Leader)
 (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ETHICS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); SHERIFFS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARRESTS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); BAIL (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Ethics; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: RIDER UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%) Joseph (Assemblyman) Cryan; Karen Golding; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



418 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: As Deficit Looms, New Jerseyans Brace for Sacrifice 

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 18 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, when Gov. Jon S. Corzine and his advisers traveled to Monmouth University for a town hall-style meeting on the New Jersey budget, a member of the audience asked what it might take to fix the state's projected $4.5 billion deficit.
 The state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow, rose to answer. ''I'm about to the point of asking you to bring in your jewelry and valuables,'' he told the audience. 
Although Mr. Corzine has not asked taxpayers to queue up outside the State House just yet, the point was made: filling in the state's shortfall will most likely require a considerable sacrifice from New Jersey residents.
 As Mr. Corzine prepares to offer his first budget as governor on Tuesday, there has been far-reaching speculation in the State House about what form those sacrifices might take.
 A tax increase -- perhaps for retail sales and cigarettes -- seems a virtual certainty, based on the governor's own public comments in recent weeks. An additional tax -- a wholesale tax on certain goods, for example -- is also a possibility. His campaign pledge to increase property tax rebates, which by his own calculations have added as much as a half billion dollars to the deficit, may also be in jeopardy.
 But as residents brace for what promises to be a difficult budget season, they could well be forgiven for asking why New Jersey is in such trouble, particularly at a time when many other states have budget surpluses.
 The answer, budget experts say, is that in recent years New Jersey has spent more money than it has raised through taxes, and has papered over the shortfalls with new borrowing, the refinancing of existing debt and other one-time solutions that analysts have long derided as gimmicks and that have left the state in a deeper hole each year.
 As a result, New Jersey now finds itself lagging behind other states that have begun to recover from the record deficits that plagued them two years ago.
 ''Overall, states are better off than they were a few years ago,'' said Elizabeth C. McNichol, a senior fellow with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. ''But in New Jersey, the projected deficit as a percentage of the total budget is the kind of deficit states were seeing when they were in bad shape.''
 Ms. McNichol said that the state's woes are rooted in a series of one-time fixes for deficits in past years, including delaying payments to employee pension plans. The state has not recovered as quickly as most other states, she said ''One of the most basic reasons is the extensive use of one-time measures.'' 
 If nothing else, Mr. Corzine has demonstrated since the election that he grasps the underpinnings of the state's budget quandary -- which was forged during the administrations of both his Democratic and Republican predecessors -- and what is required to fix it. What remains to be seen is whether he has the will to call for the mix of tax increases and austerity that some argue is essential to change the state's way of conducting its budgetary business.
 ''The problem is simple; correcting it is painful,'' Mr. Corzine told reporters on Thursday. ''When you cut expenditure programs, somebody gets hurt. When you raise taxes, people get hurt. It's not because you want to do these things. I have a constitutional responsibility to balance the budget.''
 Analysts say that while New Jersey was taking shortcuts to balance its budget in recent years, other states bridged gaps between revenue and expenditures through tax increases, spending cuts or dipping into reserve funds.
 While New Jersey has virtually exhausted its already modest rainy-day fund in the past five years and levied a series of modest tax increases -- on cigarettes, for example -- the state failed to carry out perhaps the most crucial part of budgeting: cutting spending.
 In fact, from 2002 to 2005, spending grew by an average of just over 8 percent each year. ''Other states were in bad shape two years ago, but they did a better mix of taxes and one-time solutions,'' Ms. McNichol said. ''They are coming out of this.'' New Jersey was hit harder, and it's recovering more slowly, she added.
 That slow recovery has also had an impact on the state's credit rating, which was downgraded twice by Standard & Poor's in the past four years, before getting a modest boost last year, to AA from AA minus.
 The increase in the rating was largely the result of a decision by the State Supreme Court that restricted the state's ability to borrow money to balance the budget.
 ''When you look at the state's economy, it is one of the strongest in the nation,'' said Richard Marino, an analyst with Standard & Poor's. ''But the long history of ups and downs in economic position, using one-shots -- nonrecurring revenue to fund the budget, kind of restricts the rating to the AA minus level.''
 Mr. Marino added that the state would have to reverse the trends of recent years in order to improve its rating. ''It would take a significant change in the philosophy of the state in its financial management over a period of time,'' he said.
 The trial balloons that have floated out of the Corzine administration's budget sessions suggest an ambitious agenda, but some still wonder whether Mr. Corzine has the resolve to take measures like increasing the state sales tax from 6 percent to 7 percent or raising the cigarette tax by as much as 60 cents a pack.
 The governor's critics are still dismayed by his plan to save the state's soon-to-be insolvent Transportation Trust Fund, which helps the state maintain its roads and bridges. Instead of raising the state's gasoline tax -- one of the lowest in the nation -- Mr. Corzine chose to refinance existing debt.
 One critic, State Senator Leonard Lance, a Hunterdon County Republican, said of the plan: ''I hope this is not a harbinger of his proposals in the deficit. We have to have a budget where revenue matches spending and spending matches revenue.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon S. Corzine at the dedication ceremony of the Donald K. Tucker Complex in Newark yesterday. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); RETAIL SALES (53%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Richard Lezin Jones; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



419 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Alternative Fuel: As Rare as a Fossil

BYLINE: By KEN SCHACHTER

 BODY:
TALK of alternative fuels, especially ethanol and biodiesel, seems to be everywhere: in the ''state of'' speeches from Gov. George E. Pataki and President Bush this year, in the automakers' marketing pushes, and even from the country singer Willie Nelson, who has lent his name to a new fuel blend called BioWillie.
 But on Long Island, the fuels themselves are practically nowhere.
John Clifford of Long Beach is one of about 20,000 Long Islanders who own flex-fuel vehicles, able to run on something besides conventional gasoline. He has seen the commercials and heard the speeches. He wants to do his part to help wean the country from foreign oil by filling up his 2005 Chevy with E85: 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. 
 Just one problem, Mr. Clifford said: The nearest public filling station offering E85 is a bit out of the way. According to the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, it's in Annapolis, Md.
 ''Somebody has to start the ball rolling on this,'' he said.
 John Kerns, a technician for American Airlines, bought a 1997 Ford Contour at an auction in 2000 and discovered that the car, formerly owned by KeySpan, was equipped to run on compressed natural gas as well as gasoline. 
 ''It runs on natural gas,'' he recalled thinking, ''I might as well use it.''
 Easier said than done, though: As far as he could learn, he was the first private citizen on Long Island to own such a car. To start with, he had to find one of the few repair shops on the Island authorized to inspect a natural gas vehicle. 
 Then he had to file extensive paperwork for permission to fuel the car at one of KeySpan's four public depots on Long Island: in Brentwood, Hewlett, Hicksville and Riverhead. He can now also stop at a KeySpan natural-gas fueling station near his job at Kennedy Airport.
 Biodiesel, another alternative fuel, made from vegetable fats, is hardly easier to get. At his Vogelbilt station on Wellwood Avenue in West Babylon, Carl Vogel has been dispensing biodiesel from a tanker truck for about a year. Mr. Vogel said the price was about $2.95 a gallon after a tax credit was applied to the purchase, putting it roughly in line with ordinary diesel fuel. 
 Diesel engines must be adapted to run on biodiesel, though even without modification they can tolerate small amounts blended with ordinary diesel fuel.
 With continuing high petroleum prices and the fresh impetus of political attention from the top, vehicle owners and entrepreneurs are pushing to expand alternative-fuel options on Long Island.
 Mr. Vogel has applied to Suffolk County for permission to offer E85 at his station and may add compressed natural gas after that.
 ''We'll have the first renewable-fuel filling station on Long Island,'' he said.
 Mr. Vogel, along with several other parties, is also negotiating with the county to set up a local plant to produce biodiesel from raw materials like soybeans or waste grease.
 Most of the vehicles on Long Island that use alternative fuels belong to fleet owners with their own fuel facilities, including the state and both county governments. 
 IN a pilot project, Suffolk runs 50 of its heavy-duty trucks on biodiesel, out of a total fleet of more than 400 nonpolice vehicles. ''If the car that drives by smells like French fries, think of us,'' said the county executive, Steve Levy, referring to the distinctive aroma of biodiesel exhaust.
 The county also plans to buy 25 cars and 4 buses with hybrid gasoline-electric engines, Mr. Levy said. Some hybrids get significantly better mileage than ordinary vehicles, but still run on conventional fuel.
 Nassau County, which owns 17 flex-fuel vehicles, plans to convert one gasoline pump at its Mitchel Field yard to dispense ethanol, said Thomas Maher, the director of environmental coordination. The county also has 20 vehicles running on compressed natural gas and plans to buy 20 more, he said, and it has applied for a grant for a street sweeper powered by natural gas. 
 And Long Island Bus, the bus system run by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, has 330 buses running on natural gas, one of the largest such fleets in the country. 
 KeySpan runs a number of its vehicles on natural gas, and the Long Island Power Authority uses various alternative fuels in 110 of its 186 cars, vans and light trucks, including natural gas, methanol, biodiesel and a liquid fuel derived from coal.
 Nearly all Long Island drivers have already begun using alternative fuels in a small way simply by filling up. Gasoline sold on Long Island has been mixed with some ethanol, 10 percent, since 2004. Conventional engines can tolerate that much ethanol without modifications.
 Drivers of hybrid cars that can go a minimum of 45 miles on a gallon of fuel, like the Toyota Prius, got a new benefit on March 1, when a new state rule made them eligible to use the high-occupancy-vehicle lanes on the Long Island Expressway anytime, even when the driver is alone. Some advocates want the privilege extended to alternative-fuel cars.
 As of Dec. 31, there were 2,818 hybrid cars on Long Island, about 60 percent more than a year earlier, according to Andria Adler, executive director of the Greater Long Island Clean Cities Coalition, an advocacy group. Ms. Adler said about 6,000 vehicles on the Island were running solely on alternative fuels, in addition to the 20,000 flex-fuel vehicles, out of a total of more than two million vehicles. 
 Some Long Islanders are committed to alternative fuels, but others find the economics daunting: Vehicles equipped to burn alternative fuels generally get poorer fuel mileage. For example, the 2006 flex-fuel Chevrolet Suburban that General Motors is promoting gets about 12.5 miles to a gallon of E85 fuel, compared with 16 miles to a gallon of conventional gasoline. 
 G.M. calculates that a Suburban driver using E85 will save about a barrel of oil for every 1,000 miles driven. But there is considerable scientific debate over whether using agriculture-based alternative fuels would actually save any fossil fuel.
 A study by David Pimentel, a professor at Cornell University, found that growing, harvesting and processing the soybeans and sunflowers for biodiesel, or the corn, switch grass and wood biomass for ethanol, would consume more energy than the resulting fuel would produce. 
 Advocates, including the National Biodiesel Board, countered with studies that found more encouraging results, especially for biodiesel, which a federal study says yields three times the energy used to produce it. 
 Jenna Higgins, spokeswoman for the National Biodiesel Board, said about 600 retail pumps nationwide offer biodiesel, with more expected, as automakers roll out new diesel engines that use low-sulfur fuels. Dealers sold 75 million gallons of biodiesel last year, she said, triple the volume of 2004.
 ''We're in a period of very significant growth,'' she said.
 The Odyne Corporation, based in Hauppauge, specializes in electronic controls for alternative-fuel bus and truck engines. The company's chief executive, Roger M. Slotkin, said the federal government could be doing more to reduce the nation's dependence on oil. But with or without federal help, he said, the day of alternative fuels is dawning.
 ''The technology is getting to the point where it pays for itself,'' Mr. Slotkin said. ''It really works.''
 If you can find a pump, that is.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerns, an American Airlines technician, fills his 1997 Ford Contour at a KeySpan natural-gas fueling station near Kennedy Airport. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (92%); BIOFUELS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Biodiesel Fuel; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%) national ethanol vehicle coalition; Keyspan

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (83%); NG (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George E (Gov) Pataki; George W (Pres) Bush; ken schachter

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



420 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 4413 words

HEADLINE: Ministers of Debate

BYLINE: By Zev Chafets. 
Zev Chafets last wrote for the magazine about Rabbi Yechiel Eckstein. His book on Jews and Evangelicals will be published by HarperCollins in the fall.

 BODY:
The slogan of Lynchburg, Va., is engraved on the tile floor of its modest airport: ''The most interesting spot in the state.'' This was the assessment of an early resident of Lynchburg, Thomas Jefferson, who also suggested that someday Lynchburg would be a great metropolis. Jefferson, right about so much, was wrong about this. Today Lynchburg is a sleepy little town of 64,000 on the banks of the polluted James River. Its municipal Web site lists just a few ''Famous Products,'' chief among them the ''disposable small-volume enema'' and ''the first disposable douche.'' The Web site is discreetly silent about the fact that the local branch of the firm Babcock & Wilcox designed the nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island.
Oddly, city hall doesn't brag about its only national claim to fame -- the Liberty University debate team. The most interesting thing about modern Lynchburg is that Liberty consistently produces one of the nation's great collegiate debate programs. This season Liberty is closing in on an unprecedented sweep -- first place in the rankings in all three national college debate groups: the American Debate Association, the Cross Examination Debate Association and the National Debate Tournament. 
 Two men are responsible for this improbable success. One is Liberty's founder, the Rev. Jerry Falwell, who has spared no effort to make his school into a national debate power. The other is the team's head coach, Brett O'Donnell.
 O'Donnell, who is 41, is an intensely competitive man -- he works 80-hour weeks and spends half of every year away from his wife and two children on the road coaching, scouting and recruiting. He is a political junkie with autographed photos of Karl Rove, Oliver North and Newt Gingrich on display in his small office. His heroes are Jesus Christ and Ronald Reagan -- closely followed by the 79-year-old Penn State football coach, Joe Paterno, whom he admires for his work ethic. In 2004, Karl Rove brought O'Donnell in to help the Bush presidential debate team, and O'Donnell expects to be working with Republican candidates again this year. But politics is a sideline for O'Donnell. His day job is teaching nice Christian cheek-turners how to cut their opponents' throats. 
 Liberty is not the kind of school where the star coach is bigger than the university's chancellor. To get to O'Donnell's office, you pass the Jerry Falwell Ministries Museum, in which the most prominent exhibit consists of two Prohibition-era figures loading booze into a Model T Ford. One figure is said to be Jerry Falwell's father.
 Carey H. Falwell was a successful Lynchburg businessman who founded two bus companies. He was also a hoodlum, who, in addition to moonshining, organized cock and dog fights and ran a notorious nightspot. In 1931, he shot his brother Garland to death. The killing was ruled self-defense, but it cemented Carey Falwell's local reputation as a very bad man.
 This sort of family laundry is not usually hung in the personal museums of university founders. But Doc Falwell, as O'Donnell calls his boss, is proud of his hardscrabble, entrepreneurial heritage. In 1971, he started Liberty as a small Bible college. Today, perched on a 4,400-acre mountain, with 22,500 resident and online students, Liberty bills itself as the world's largest conservative Evangelical Christian university.
 ''We expect to double our size in the next 15 years,'' Falwell told me. Falwell, at 72, has a taste for expansion that seems undiminished. We were sitting in his wood-paneled office on the Liberty campus. He swiveled to a desktop computer and, with surprising dexterity, called up next year's enrollment numbers -- 21,678 applicants for 3,200 places in the freshman class. ''If I had the money and the staff, we could enroll 200,000,'' he said with a beatific smile.
 There are building sites all over campus, including the recently dedicated LaHaye Ice Center, a hockey arena donated by Beverly and Tim LaHaye, an author of the ''Left Behind'' novels. Considering LaHaye's apocalyptic beliefs and Falwell's own eschatology, this focus on the future is reassuring.
 Falwell is after something more than growth for its own sake. He wants to create ''champions for Christ.'' That's where O'Donnell comes in.
 ''Our football program can't change the culture,'' Falwell said. ''Our debate program can, by producing advocates who know how to argue for Judeo-Christian ethics and the American Constitution. We have 32 kids on our team this year, and they'll all be lawyers or leaders of some sort. Our goal is to create an army of people who know how to make our case. These are brilliant, articulate students. I couldn't have made the Liberty debate team when I was that age. I couldn't talk that fast.''
 Falwell's dedication to his debate program was on display that morning. When O'Donnell and I arrived at his office, we learned that Falwell's sister-in-law had died only two hours earlier. I was amazed that he kept our appointment; O'Donnell wasn't.
 ''We're Doc's baby,'' he told me. ''He meets with the team at the start of every season to offer his support. He follows our schedule. The kids know we matter to him.''
 This enthusiasm is expressed in practical ways. Liberty's program has five full-time coaches and a budget of half a million dollars. And in college debate, money talks. Since its inception in 1980, the Liberty program has won 15 national-rankings championships, two more than its closest competitor, Northwestern. Most of this success has come under O'Donnell. Born to working-class parents in northern Virginia (his father and mother both worked for the telephone company), he first came to Liberty as a freshman student in 1982. He chose the school over the Air Force Academy because he wanted to be a minister.
 The Liberty debate team was a minor activity in those days. Even so, O'Donnell never made varsity. After graduation he received a master's degree in communications from Penn State, coached debate there for two years and then returned to Liberty for good in 1993.
 ''I convinced Doc that, with the right kind of approach, we could be a national power,'' he recalls. Falwell liked the sound of that, and O'Donnell came through on his promise. Since 1994, Liberty has always been in the Top 5 of the National Debate Tournament rankings.
 ''Brett's done amazing things,'' says Warren Decker, the head debate coach of George Mason University, one of Liberty's chief rivals. ''As an overall program, Liberty is very close to the top.''
 ''Overall program'' is a term of art. Debate ranking points are awarded for total wins at the novice, junior varsity and varsity levels. Unlike many universities, Liberty emphasizes all three. Its elite varsity debaters may not be as good as the best in the country, but top to bottom, Liberty racks up the most points. This success amazes many of O'Donnell's colleagues.
 ''We get kids who may have been debating since the sixth grade,'' says Ed Panetta, head coach of the University of Georgia. ''They come to us with seven years' experience, and they attend debate camps in the summer. Brett's kids have limited debate experience.''
 Partly this is because of Liberty's egalitarian entrance criteria, which Falwell summarizes as ''first come, first served.'' Many Liberty students are more notable for their piety than for their intellectual sophistication. O'Donnell has a budget for scholarships, but his recruiting is severely circumscribed by the school's requirement that students be professing Christians.
 ''The coaching staff here looks at tapes of the best prep-school debaters in the country,'' he says. ''A lot of them, unfortunately from our point of view, wouldn't fit in here.'' A few years ago, O'Donnell tried to sign up a debater he met while coaching at a summer camp in Michigan, only to discover that the kid was Jewish.
 Being a Christian is a necessary but insufficient requirement for making the Liberty squad. A lot of students are home-schooled; some have even taken part in special home-school debate leagues. But according to O'Donnell, they lack the starch for serious debate. ''These kids pray with each other before the matches,'' he says. ''They put a big emphasis on good manners. I've got nothing against manners or praying, but we want to win. I've never met a home-schooled debater who was aggressive enough for college competition.''
 The paucity of experienced high-school debaters has forced O'Donnell to start mostly from scratch. Each year he sends a mailing to incoming Liberty students who have a combined SAT score of 1,200 or above -- roughly 40 percent of the freshman class. Around 60 students reply. They go through a rigorous debate boot camp at the start of their first semester. Seven or eight make it through the freshman season. By senior year, only three or four are left, competing at the varsity level.
 The survivors see themselves as an intellectual elite. ''Reverend Falwell says, 'We're No. 1, and Harvard is like No. 4 or something,' '' Lauren Zawistowski, a first-year debater from Jacksonville, N.C., told me. ''The kids on campus are proud of our success, what little they understand about it.''
 Erin Beard, Zawistowski's teammate, is a sophomore from York, Pa. She considers herself and her teammates to be witnesses for Christ. ''Our presence on the debate circuit changes people's conception of Christianity,'' she says. ''They see that we respect their beliefs. We're not close-minded.''
 O'Donnell encourages his debaters to make friends with competitors from other schools. ''They're welcome to attend our devotions, and some of them do,'' he says. ''Some just socialize. We don't beat them over the head with a Bible, and we don't preach to them.'' Over the years, a number of Liberty debaters have found love and marriage on the debate circuit.
 The rules of college debate require teams to argue at each tournament both sides of an annual, nationally chosen topic. This year's is ''Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase diplomatic and economic pressure on the People's Republic of China in one or more of the following areas: trade, human rights, weapons nonproliferation, Taiwan.'' 
 This is not a topic that presents ideological or religious problems to the Liberty squad, but that has not always been the case. ''A few years ago,'' O'Donnell recalls, ''the topic dealt with the right of privacy. That means, among other things, abortion. The question arose, can we let our students argue the pro side of the case? Some conservative Christian schools decided that they couldn't argue both sides of certain issues. Bob Jones University wound up dropping policy debating.''
 O'Donnell took the matter to Falwell. ''Doc decided that if we wanted to compete, we'd need to accept the rules,'' O'Donnell says. That season, by special dispensation, Liberty's debate practice rooms became the only place on campus where students were free to argue in favor of Roe v. Wade.
 ''Not all the Liberty debaters are all that pious,'' says the George Mason coach, Warren Decker. Decker was raised in a Christian home in Kansas, but he has long since traded his Sunday-school innocence for a marked skepticism. ''Besides,'' he says,''debate is a liberalizing activity. I doubt that Falwell is producing a lot of people who, when they finish at Liberty, are going out to spread the Word.''
 O'Donnell disagrees, mostly because he says he doesn't fear the power of secular ideology. ''If there's a challenge to belief, it's better that the kids face it now,'' he says. ''We don't need to shelter them. We want them to know the best arguments they will be up against. What determines how they ultimately fall out on this is their relationship with God.''
 Still, the Liberty team is not what you'd call religiously lax. Not long ago, before leaving campus for a road trip to a tournament at the Naval Academy, they gathered for prayer in front of their vans (the Liberty debate program is so flush that it gives out scholarship money to special team drivers). At the end of the tournament day they prayed again. And when O'Donnell announced that there would be group devotions on Sunday morning at 6:30 a.m., he was greeted with a respectful silence instead of the groans I anticipated. 
 Several years ago, a Roman Catholic quit the team, declining to pray with the group. O'Donnell, whose own boyhood family was divided between its Catholic and Baptist sides, was sympathetic but unbending. ''He just didn't feel comfortable with the style of our devotions,'' O'Donnell says. 
 O'Donnell and his coaches scout the other teams. Liberty knew that one of its opponents in Annapolis would probably argue that the Chinese should be pressured because they discriminate against their Muslim minority. In the van on the four-hour drive there, debaters rehearsed responses, using a special lingo.
 ''They pull the genocide card,'' one said, ''we come back with Heidegger.''
 ''Then blam, Erich Fromm.''
 ''Right. Setting up an accusation of Holocaust triv.'' 
 ''Holocaust what?'' asked O'Donnell.
 ''Triv. Trivialization.''
 ''Don't use shorthand,'' O'Donnell said. ''Judges don't like it.''
 He said this gently; O'Donnell has an easy, first-name relationship with his debaters (''I hate being called coach''), and he is not much of a disciplinarian, at least by Liberty standards. Team members, like all students, are obliged to follow the Liberty Way. No alcohol, tobacco or drugs are permitted. (Students are subject to random testing.) On the road the team stays in hotels that have cable TV, but students aren't permitted to watch movies rated R, NC-17 or X. There are romantic couples on the squad, but they are forbidden to do more than hold hands.
 O'Donnell supplements the Liberty Way with requirements of his own. His debaters devote about 35 hours a week to the team. For tournaments, O'Donnell maintains a strict dress code: men must wear neckties, women must wear dresses or skirts with stockings, or slacks. All debaters are required to keep up a 3.0 grade average -- a standard that has cost him at least one good prospect this season. 
 And, of course, no dairy products are allowed on game days. ''Milk loosens the mucus in the throat, and that makes it harder to speak quickly,'' he explains. 
 Debaters research their own arguments, practicing once or twice a week by scrimmaging under the supervision of an assistant coach, who tapes the sessions and then reviews and critiques them to point out mistakes. Some of these are simple things -- speech tics like ''you know'' or ''I mean.'' But coaching also involves instilling O'Donnell's debate theory. ''The trick is to persuade the audience,'' he explained to me. ''It's psychological, and it rests in Aristotle's theory of enthymeme. Aristotle saw that pure logic can't carry a public argument. You need to make the audience go along with you. You do that by leaving out a premise the audience will add itself. 
 ''For example, if you are trying to convince senior citizens to invest in something, you emphasize the stability of the investment. You don't have to convince seniors that stability is in their interest. They already know that. When they connect what you are proposing to what they already know, you have them arguing with you instead of against you. That's what we teach our kids.''
 Quick speaking hardly captures the velocity of collegiate debate. Varsity debaters talk at 350 to 400 words a minute -- about the speed of a fast auctioneer. Only experienced judges -- most of whom are coaches from neutral schools -- can actually follow the argument. For this reason, debate isn't a spectator sport. Sitting in a classroom at Annapolis for the opening debate of the tournament, a match between Liberty and Trinity University, I could make out only random bursts of words: ''Chinese. . .production facilities . . . economic consequences. . .freely elected. . .patient. . .consequences. . .targets. . .moratorium. . .nuclear winter. . .human rights.. . .''
 O'Donnell calls debate ''a game of the mind,'' but it is also a sport that requires strength and stamina. Contests last 92 minutes, and each debater on each two-person team speaks three times -- opening arguments, cross-examination and closing arguments -- for a total of 23 minutes. At some tournaments, teams have five matches a day. 
 Debaters gulp air like competitive swimmers. Melissa Hurter, a senior from Huntsville, Ala., talked at high speed for nine full seconds between breaths (she and her partner Lindsey Hoban, a senior from Lake Ariel, Pa., keep in shape by playing wind instruments). The Trinity debaters sucked air after only five seconds and sounded as if they were drowning. Liberty won handily.
 There is a tactical logic to speed-talking. Arguments -- even nonsensical or irrelevant arguments -- must be rebutted. Those left unanswered count against you. The faster you talk, the more arguments you can make, and the better your chance to rack up points. Debaters carry their ammunition, files of every possible argument and rebuttal, in 14-gallon plastic tubs.
 The emphasis on words per minute presents Liberty with another challenge. Debate is generally a male sport; Liberty tends to be an exception. Many of its best debaters are, like Hurter, Southerners who come from a culture that frowns on fast-talking women. They compete against self-assured, big-city Northern boys who have been arguing since the playground.
 ''A lot of these guys are like me, frustrated athletes,'' O'Donnell says. ''I'm a classic slow white guy, but I'll race you to the door.'' 
 Liberty does have one great advantage: Despite its perennially high ranking, it is underestimated. ''We're supposed to be dumb,'' O'Donnell says. ''People take us lightly. And I won't lie, that gets the kids motivated. We get a lot of pleasure when we beat a Columbia or a Dartmouth.''
 There were no Ivy League teams at the tournament in Annapolis, but Liberty went up against Navy, Army, Boston College, Georgia, George Mason, the University of Michigan at Dearborn and a number of other bigger schools. They won two of the three divisions, novice and junior varsity. The following week in Austin, Liberty teams defeated squads from Emory and Northwestern. Heading into the National Debate Tournament, which begins later this week, Liberty was No. 1 in overall points in all three national rankings. 
 ''We don't compete against Mount Pisgah College,'' Falwell told me proudly. 
 One on one, the best debaters from Harvard, Northwestern, Emory and Berkeley will usually -- but not always -- beat Liberty's top varsity team. At the National Debate Tournament, a single-elimination shootout structured along the lines of the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, Liberty will be happy to finish in the Sweet 16.
 This doesn't bother O'Donnell. ''If we changed the way we recruit and concentrated on fielding an elite varsity, we'd definitely have a shot at winning the national tournament every year,'' he says. ''But that's not who we are. I spend more of my time with the novices than I do with the varsity. The evidence we work up gets shared among all the debaters. Our goal here is to grow an entire program. We want to educate a lot of kids and instill them with a sense of mission. That's the secret of our success -- that and a lot of hard work.''
 Everyone on the college circuit is aware that Liberty is a conservative Christian university. This could be a problem -- judging is highly subjective. ''Ninety-five percent of the debate community, including the judges, are more liberal than the most liberal members of Congress,'' O'Donnell says. But he isn't complaining. Judges can be idiosyncratic, but most of them will be swayed by strong argument, O'Donnell says; some even bend over backward to correct for their liberal bias.
 Occasionally, though, being at Liberty can present a challenge. After Falwell made incendiary remarks about American immorality causing the 9/11 attacks, the George Mason University team argued that Liberty should lose simply because its chancellor's offensive statements undermined the debate team's credibility. This tactic, described in debate circles as ''postmodern,'' failed to persuade the judge, and according to O'Donnell, Decker, the George Mason coach, later apologized. Decker denies apologizing, and when I raised the incident with him in Annapolis he grinned in a way that couldn't be called remorseful.
 Still, for the most part, the debate community is collegial and tight-knit, and O'Donnell is definitely a member of the in-crowd. This year he serves as treasurer of the National Debate Tournament board of trustees. After the first day of the Annapolis tournament, half a dozen rival coaches -- including Frank Harrison, whose Trinity varsity lost to Liberty -- repaired to Harry Brown's Restaurant. O'Donnell refrained from drinking with his colleagues, and he said a short, silent grace before tucking in to the she-crab bisque, but other than that he gave no hint that he was anything but a big-time college coach enjoying an expense-account meal at the best joint in town.
 O'Donnell is aware of his privileged status at Liberty, but he is cautious about the future. Falwell has been in uncertain health, and his anointed successor, Jerry Falwell Jr., is a relatively unknown quantity. (''Politically my son is to the right of me,'' Falwell told me with gleeful pugnacity.) Falwell Jr. supports the debate program, but O'Donnell knows from the Bible what can happen to Pharaoh's favorite when a new king comes to power.
 To safeguard his program, O'Donnell has embarked on a campaign to raise a $10 million endowment. More than 60 of Liberty's ex-debaters are now lawyers; some are doing very well. When he isn't coaching or recruiting, O'Donnell spends an increasing amount of time with them, trying to turn nostalgia and team spirit into hard cash.
 O'donnell also has ambitions that go beyond debate. It was in May 2004, when Karl Rove gave the commencement speech at Liberty, that O'Donnell introduced himself and said, ''You should hire me to get President Bush ready in the fall.'' A few weeks later he received a call from Rove's office inviting him to try out.
 O'Donnell's first assignment was to analyze John Kerry's previous debates from the primaries and earlier elections. He did the same with John Edwards's tapes. The results, according to Bush's chief media adviser, Mark McKinnon, were ''very good.'' McKinnon's company, Maverick Media, put O'Donnell on the payroll.
 ''The guy has great chops,'' McKinnon told me. ''He knows more about presidential debates than anyone I've ever talked to.''
 O'Donnell drafted a paper that served as a basis for Bush-Kerry predebate technical negotiations. He conferred with Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, in almost daily telephone conferences. O'Donnell was made part of two debate subgroups, one charged with anticipating Kerry's lines of attack, the other with devising ways of turning the tables.
 O'Donnell didn't participate in Bush's actual rehearsal sessions. Those were limited to the inner circle -- people like Rove, McKinnon, Condoleezza Rice, Karen Hughes and Dan Bartlett, the communications director. Bush's handlers feared that bringing a new man into the room might throw him off. Some campaign staff members were annoyed by O'Donnell's persistent harping on the need for the president to improve his nonverbal communication, and his opinion that Bush shouldn't agree to an audience-question format at the second debate. He was right about both. ''I think he could have been helpful as a participant,'' McKinnon says.
 For O'Donnell, even his limited role was a dream come true. ''I've wanted to work on political campaigns ever since I started debating,'' he says. ''I did a little pro bono work for Jack Kemp in 1988. Now here I was working for the president of the United States. Talk about nervous. When Karl Rove asked me if I wanted to do it, I jumped. I never even asked him about money. I would have done it for free.''
 O'Donnell has since lost his amateur standing. After the 2004 election, he founded his own consulting company, O'Donnell and Associates Ltd. In 2005, his first private client, the Republican Jerry Kilgore, lost the Virginia gubernatorial race. 
 O'Donnell doesn't intend to stay 0-1. He's already negotiating with four 2006 campaigns -- two senatorial and two gubernatorial -- although he won't name them. The deals aren't yet closed, and at least one of his potential clients is nervous about being publicly associated with the Falwell wing of the party.
 Ken Mehlman, who is now the chairman of the Republican National Committee, has no such worries. ''I'm a big fan of Brett's,'' he says. ''If candidates ask me about him for 2006, I'm going to recommend him.''
 O'Donnell wouldn't mind working for Democratic candidates who share his values. (He has a signed photo of Zell Miller in his office.) On the other hand, there are some Republican clients he wouldn't take. ''It would be very hard for me to work with a pro-choice candidate like Rudy Giuliani,'' he told me. ''Or someone lukewarm on the war in Iraq, like Chuck Hagel. I believe in a preemptive strategy, in fighting over there and not over here. I don't want to be just a hired gun. I have an agenda. I'm an ideologue.''
 A Christian ideologue?
 ''Absolutely. But would I work for a candidate who isn't a Christian, somebody with the same core principles as mine? Sure. Mitt Romney, for example; he's a Mormon, but our beliefs are similar. I'd work for an atheist if he shared my values.''
 What about Lynchburg's most famous son? Would O'Donnell work for Thomas Jefferson?
 O'Donnell laughed. ''With his skills, I doubt he'd need a debate coach. And we'd probably have our ideological differences. But sure, I'd relish working for Thomas Jefferson. He was a patriot.''
 In the meantime, O'Donnell is focusing on more realistic possibilities. He takes his team into the National Debate Tournament in Evanston, Ill., on March 24. Then, win or lose, he has another season to prepare for. Some talented junior-varsity kids will be moving up. A couple of very promising recruits are coming from Ohio and Florida. And best of all, there will be crop of novices from nowhere, willing young Christians eager for Lynchburg's minister of debate to teach them the art of fast talking for the greater glory of God and Liberty.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 52 of The Times Magazine today about the debate team at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., misstates the percentage of students there with SAT scores over 1200. It is 15 percent, not 40.
An article on Page 52 of The Times Magazine today about the debate team at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va., misstates the percentage of students there with SAT scores over 1200. It is 15 percent, not 40.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fast talkers: members of the Liberty University debate team, with Coach O'Donnell. (Photograph by Jeff Riedel)
Both Sides Now: O'Donnell prepares Amy Boyd (center) and Lauren Zawistowski at the Annapolis tournament. Two-person teams must argue and rebut opposing sides of a chosen issue.
 Celebrity Coach: At Liberty, even the most successful coach is less famous than Chancellor Falwell. But O'Donnell has Falwell's ear, and the team is his ''baby.'' (Photograph by Brian Finke for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (73%); ETHICS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); POLITICS (67%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); RELIGION (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Colleges and Universities; Debating; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY UNIVERSITY (94%) Liberty University

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOE PATERNO (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); KARL ROVE (50%) Zev Chafets; Jerry (Rev) Falwell; Brett O'Donnell

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



421 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: The Bigger the Better as Large Stocks Regain Favor

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
GENERAL ELECTRIC. Microsoft. Citigroup. What do these three companies have in common? Well, they're among the biggest, most powerful companies in the world. And their shares -- as well as those of many other companies in their weight class -- have disappointed investors for six straight years.
 To be sure, a handful of energy giants have risen sharply, along with soaring oil prices. For instance, Exxon Mobil's stock gained 10.5 percent a year on average over the five years through February, compared with a 2.4 percent increase in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. But bellwether companies in many other industries lagged the broader stock market.
Some market strategists say they think that is about to change, and the very largest stocks, which are often referred to as megacaps, could begin to come into their own later this year. 
 Henry McVey, chief United States investment strategist for Morgan Stanley, said he didn't exactly expect them to sprint past smaller stocks. ''It's probably going to be a marathon,'' he said. ''But I think by the end of this year, megacaps will have come off the bottom and will start doing well.''
 Megacap stocks have generally underperformed the market even as they have earned an outsize share of corporate profits, Mr. McVey said. From 1985 to 2000, the 25 largest companies in the S.& P. 500 earned about 30 percent of the profits for all of the companies in the index. Today, the 25 largest companies account for about 44 percent of the profits.
 Many of the biggest companies bulked up during a wave of mergers at the end of the last decade. Mr. McVey said they had disappointed investors since then because their real returns on equity weren't as high as chief executives predicted when they announced those mergers.
 Although Mr. McVey agrees with many other market strategists that megacaps are relatively cheap compared with the broader stock market, he said he didn't think that lower price-to-earnings ratios alone would spark their revival. ''The catalysts will be simpler business models, greater alignment of executive pay with company performance and better use of capital,'' he said.
 Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Asset and Wealth Management, said there were many explanations for megacaps having underperformed the market for six years. 
 Initially, he said, megacaps were simply too expensive. By the end of 1999, the 50 largest stocks in the S.& P. 500 had outperformed the index by 4.6 percent a year, on average, during the prior six years. But in the six years since the turn of this decade, the 50 largest stocks have underperformed the index by exactly the same amount, 4.6 percent a year on average.
 ''In 2000, megacaps were overvalued because expectations were too high,'' Mr. Schweitzer said. But when stocks started rebounding in 2003, he said investors began pouring money into small caps, which usually do better coming out of a recession. Now, he said, smaller stocks are overpriced. ''It's the mirror image of 1999,'' when megacaps were too expensive and small caps were cheap, he said.
 Mr. Schweitzer said he thought that megacaps would shine again ''when it's cloudy out.'' If the market hits a rough patch, megacaps would probably fare better than small caps, he said. Megacaps might also benefit if the dollar declined, he said, because they earn much more of their profits overseas than most other United States companies. For instance, the 50 largest companies in the S.& P. 500 earn about 40 percent of their revenue outside the United States. The rest of the companies in that index earn on average less than a quarter of their profit abroad.
 Mr. Schweitzer said he didn't favor any particular sectors or stocks within megacaps. ''To split them up into sectors, then it becomes very stock-specific,'' he said, since there are often just two or three true megacaps in any one industry. He advises owning a basket of megacap stocks. ''That's a relatively diversified way to have exposure to quality names at a cheap price,'' he said.
 Michael Metz, chief investment strategist for Oppenheimer & Company, said this was the cheapest he has seen megacap stocks relative to small and midcap stocks. ''That's because the market's been dominated by entrepreneurial investors, rather than typical mutual fund investors,'' he said.
 Mr. Metz said he thought that individual investors were starting to move money back into equity mutual funds, which he said could benefit larger stocks. Mutual fund investors ''had their fling with the Internet bubble and Enron,'' he said, ''now, when they come back to the market, they'll come back to the names they trust.''
 But, he added, it takes a lot of money to lift megacap stocks. He believes they will begin to turn the corner this year, but it may take a few years for them to catch up to smaller stocks in terms of price-to-earnings valuations.
 Wendell Perkins, who co-manages the JohnsonFamily Large Cap Value Fund, says the average size of the stocks in his portfolio has doubled over the last five years, to around $60 billion today. ''We've been steadily climbing the market cap scale,'' in search of undervalued stocks, said Mr. Perkins, who is also the chief investment officer at the fund's adviser, Johnson Asset Management, which is based in Racine, Wis.
 Johnson's large-cap fund -- which has returned 6.5 percent a year, on average, over the last five years -- includes stocks like Citigroup and Dow Chemical, which have been a drag on total returns. But the fund also has a hefty dose of megacap energy and military contractor stocks, like ConocoPhillips and Northrop Grumman, which helped it beat the S.& P. 500 over the last five years, when the fund's megacap bias and its value-style of investing were out of vogue.
 Mr. Perkins said he thought that most small-cap stocks, and even many midcap stocks, were overpriced now. And he said this was true across all the major industries. For instance, he said Citigroup and J. P. Morgan have lower price-to-earnings ratios than many regional banks now. Citigroup, the fund's largest holding, closed at TK$.tk on Friday, giving it a trailing price-to-earnings ratio of TK. J. P. Morgan, which the fund also owns, closed at TK$.tk, giving it a P/E ratio of TK.
 WITHIN the pharmaceutical industry, he said Pfizer and Merck were widely perceived as having weak product pipelines. But he said Johnson & Johnson's stock was cheap now, although it had a pristine balance sheet and a good product pipeline. Johnson & Johnson closed at TK$.tk on Friday, with a trailing P/E ratio of TK.
 ''I think that investors shouldn't underestimate the power of market share,'' Mr. Perkins said. ''These companies are megacaps because they have a lot of advantages of scale and scope and efficiencies.''
 Like the other market strategists, Mr. Perkins said he thought it might take megacaps a few years to beat the market soundly. ''But there will come a point in time when megacaps excite investors again,'' he said. ''It may be a few years away, but as long-term managers, we're positioning for the future.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about prospects for large-capitalization stocks omitted market data for some such issues as of March 17. Shares of Citigroup closed that day at $47.41, giving it a trailing price-to-earnings ratio of 12.40. J. P. Morgan closed at $41.40, giving it a P/E of 17.39. Johnson & Johnson closed at $60.34, giving it a P/E of 17.50.
An article last Sunday about prospects for large-capitalization stocks omitted market data for some such issues as of March 17. Shares of Citigroup closed that day at $47.41, giving it a trailing price-to-earnings ratio of 12.40. J. P. Morgan closed at $41.40, giving it a P/E of 17.39. Johnson & Johnson closed at $60.34, giving it a P/E of 17.50.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jet assembly line at a Northrop Grumman plant in El Segundo, Calif. Some market strategists say stocks of large companies could recover their appeal. (Photo by Reed Saxon/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006



422 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Nowhere

 BODY:
It seems insane that the National Park Service would even think of spending $600 million on a road that few people want and nobody needs -- especially when the service has barely enough money to keep up appearances. But that could happen unless the Interior Department musters the courage to resist Representative Charles Taylor of North Carolina. 
 Mr. Taylor, who says a new road would stimulate the local economy, runs the subcommittee that controls the Interior Department's budget. For that reason, neither the park service nor Interior's outgoing secretary, Gale Norton, has publicly criticized the idea. But there is more at stake here than pleasing one's paymaster. The road would not only blow a hole in the department's budget; it would also leave a scar on one of the most popular national parks.
 At issue is a 30-mile road proposed for the north side of Fontana Lake on the eastern edge of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina. The road was promised to the residents of Swain County in 1943 when the Tennessee Valley Authority built a major hydroelectric dam, creating the lake and flooding out an existing road. After a fitful start in the 1960's, the road was abandoned for environmental and budgetary reasons.
 Those reasons still apply. The road, including three big bridges, each the length of the Brooklyn Bridge, would breach an unbroken tract of national forest, destroy wildlife habitat and poison hundreds of miles of streams. Its estimated cost of $604 million -- up 40 percent from only a year ago -- is three times the annual roads budget for the entire national park system, which is already suffering from a big repair backlog.
 There is no pressing need for the project. Swain County has other roads. The road's opponents include Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, and Swain County's own commissioners. There is broad agreement that restitution of some sort is due the residents of the region, and that the spirit if not the letter of the original agreement should be honored. A cash settlement of $52 million has been proposed. 
 As Mr. Taylor has noted, this will not generate the jobs and income that the road project would. But it's fair, and it won't do lasting damage. Interior should endorse the settlement. The department's neutrality serves only to keep alive an idea that makes even less sense now than it did in 1943. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); LAKES (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); WILDLIFE (68%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (66%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%) Roads and Traffic; Editorials

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (84%) Interior Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%)

PERSON: Charles (Rep) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



423 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In Boomtown, But Still Stuck On a Bubble

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
When Dan Gillmor first arrived at The San Jose Mercury News in 1994, he recalled, he felt like he was in the ''belly of the beast.'' 
 In his previous job, as a technology reporter for The Detroit Free Press -- then one of the country's leading newspapers -- he had trouble getting editors to understand how important the tech story was. Now he was at the center of the most vibrant part of the American economy, where fortunes and history were being made almost every day.
''We were one of the few newspapers that was growing,'' said Mr. Gillmor, who with a number of other prominent hires to The Mercury News provided some of the best chronicling of the dot-com bubble era. 
 That bubble burst, but Silicon Valley has come back. The Mercury News, however, has not. Last Monday, the McClatchy Company announced it was buying Knight Ridder in a deal valued at $4.5 billion, but it also said that it would immediately sell 12 of those Knight Ridder papers to help finance the acquisition. The Mercury News, which calls itself ''the user manual for Silicon Valley,'' was to be jettisoned, along with papers in cities like Philadelphia, Fort Wayne, Ind., and Akron, Ohio. 
 P. Anthony Ridder, the chairman of Knight Ridder, who moved the company's corporate headquarters here from Miami in 1998, a move that reflected the paper's cutting-edge status, expressed shock. ''I was just stunned,'' he was quoted as saying, in a story on the front page of The Mercury News the next day. It was a view shared by nearly everyone at the paper.
 One reason McClatchy has decided not to keep The Mercury News is the paper's high operating costs, the company said. The newspaper's profit margin of about 9 percent is well below the average of about 12 percent for the Knight Ridder papers that McClatchy is keeping. Douglas M. Arthur, an analyst for Morgan Stanley, estimates that the newspaper earns less than $22 million a year on revenue of about $235 million.
 McClatchy's decision was also based on a factor the paper's leadership could not control -- the rate of household growth in the area. With newspaper circulation figures stagnating in recent years, it is especially important for a paper to be in an expanding region where it has a better chance of gaining new readers.
 Silicon Valley, despite its wealth and innovation, is already so crowded that it has little room for suburban expansion. As a result, it is growing more slowly than the communities of the papers McClatchy is keeping. San Jose is expected to grow nearly 30 percent from 1997 to 2020, according to state government projections. But in that same period, Sacramento, where McClatchy has its headquarters, is expected to grow by more than 50 percent. 
 In its heyday in the late 90's, The Mercury News sought to break out of its traditional territory and go beyond its core readership. It tried to expand into San Francisco, setting up a bureau above a pizza parlor near Union Square to cover that city's politics, popular culture and business.
 It opened a bureau in Vietnam, and it created Vietnamese- and Spanish-language editions to reach out to large immigrant populations in the city. The staff was encouraged to travel and urged to suggest stories that would call for travel.
 ''There was a certain giddiness,'' said Mike Cassidy, a columnist for the paper. ''The staff grew, and our ambitions grew. We felt like we were on the edge of being a great newspaper.'' 
 The newspaper tried to be as innovative as the companies it was covering. It was one of the first papers with a Web site -- MercuryCenter.com -- and one of the earliest to blog, back in 1999. It recognized that people were consuming news in a new and different way because of the Internet. 
 But the paper had missed an important innovation, one that would rock the entire newspaper industry. As the dot-coms collapsed, Silicon Valley companies were doing decidedly less hiring. When they did need to fill a job, they posted the opening free on their own Web sites or on Craigslist.com and on the new nationwide Web job listings, like Monster.com.
 ''Craigslist has disemboweled us in many ways,'' said Scott Herhold, another of the paper's columnists. Jay T. Harris, the paper's publisher from 1994 to 2001 and now a teacher at the Annenberg Center for the Study of Journalism and Democracy at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, added that ''when you start to lose very high-margin revenue dollars, you can't make that up with cost-cutting.''
 Nevertheless, the paper tried. Susan Goldberg, who arrived in 1999 as managing editor and became executive editor four years later, led a hasty retreat from San Francisco. She closed the bureau in Vietnam and shuttered the local foreign-language editions. She tightened the travel budget and stopped printing a Sunday magazine and a separate Sunday book section.
 ''Our story is a lot like the companies we cover,'' she said. 
 As a result, Mr. Harris said, ''the paper is quite different and quite diminished.''
 At its peak in 2000, The Mercury News had a Sunday circulation of 326,839 subscribers, according to the newspaper. Last September, the company counted 278,470 Sunday subscribers, a drop of about 15 percent. Revenue from the company's help-wanted ads fell to $18 million a year from more than $118 million, according to the paper. The newsroom was whittled to 280 people from 404, a 30 percent decline.
 Even with a 9 percent operating margin, the paper may be valuable to some potential bidders. The MediaNews Group, the Denver-based chain of papers run by William Dean Singleton, could value The Mercury News and other Knight-Ridder papers more highly because of their fit with the papers it already owns in Northern California. 
 Jody Lodovic, MediaNews president, would not confirm that his company planned to make a bid for The Mercury News, but in a telephone interview he laid out reasons that doing so might make sense. The MediaNews strategy, he said, is to cluster newspapers to use printing presses more efficiently and to sell ad placement in a family of regional papers to national advertisers. 
 MediaNews already owns papers in Marin County, to the north of San Francisco; San Mateo to its south; and in Oakland, Hayward and Fremont, across the bay to the east. Picking up San Jose, Palo Alto and The Contra Costa Times from Knight Ridder would complete a ring around San Francisco and Hearst's San Francisco Chronicle, which has 467,000 Sunday readers. 
 ''It's more important to own your market, whether it is a high-growth market or not,'' said Mr. Lodovic. 
 The MediaNews chain is also known for slashing costs, which is why many employees at The Mercury News say they dread having Mr. Singleton buy the paper. The Mercury News is a union paper with higher labor costs than the Knight Ridder papers that McClatchy is keeping. (Indeed, all of the Knight Ridder papers that McClatchy is selling have union contracts.)
 Mr. Singleton's willingness to cut costs might suggest he has an advantage over any bidder who does not intend to scale back union wages.
 But that may not necessarily be true. Yucaipa Companies, a buyout firm based in Los Angeles, is talking to McClatchy about The Mercury News and the 11 other papers, said Linda Foley, national president of the Newspaper Guild-Communications Workers of America. Yucaipa's hope is to buy the papers and then offer union members the opportunity to transfer their qualified retirement plan account balances into a stake in a newly created employee stock ownership plan company, which would provide a number of tax advantages.
 Not having to pay as much income tax would ''turbo-charge'' the company's returns, said Christopher Mackin, president of Ownership Associates in Cambridge, Mass., which is advising the union and Yucaipa. That might give Ron Burkle, the former supermarket magnate who heads Yucaipa, the latitude to outbid others. ''We can enjoy returns the others can't,'' Mr. Mackin said. 
 George Riggs, publisher of The Mercury News, said that whoever bought the paper would get a property on a growth trajectory. Employment in the region is back to where it was before the dot-com crash, he said, and tech executives exercising stock options are pouring more cash into the economy.
 ''We feel very good about the Mercury News/Contra Costa market,'' said Mr. Riggs. 
 David Rounds, vice president of circulation, said that in the six months ending in March, the paper expects to show its first circulation gains in six years. But any such improvement will come too late for Mr. Gillmor, who achieved national renown as a columnist at The Mercury News. Last year, he left the paper to start his own Web site.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about plans by the McClatchy Company to sell The San Jose Mercury News and 11 other newspapers that it is acquiring as part of its purchase of Knight Ridder misstated the average operating profit margin at the papers McClatchy is keeping. It is 30.3 percent, McClatchy said, not 12 percent. The article also misstated the number of papers among those being sold whose workers are represented by unions. It is 9, not all 12.
 The article also misstated the role of Susan Goldberg in newsroom cuts at The Mercury News and her title at the time. She did not close the paper's foreign-language weeklies; that decision was made by the publisher. She was managing editor when the paper stopped printing its Sunday magazine and a separate book section; she has since become executive editor. 
 The article referred incorrectly to the revival of employment in Silicon Valley. The region has regained about 10,000 of the 178,000 jobs it lost since the dot-com collapse; it has not recovered them all.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan Goldberg, above and second from left below, the executive editor of The San Jose Mercury News, executed a series of cutbacks at the newspaper in an attempt to rein in costs as profit margins shrank. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Many staff members of The San Jose Mercury News belong to a union, giving the paper higher labor costs that may deter buyers. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Circulation at The Mercury News has slipped about 15 percent in the last five years. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 Dan Gillmor was a prominent hire. Now he writes independently on the Web. (Photo by Fallfoto.com for O'Reilly Media)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); SUBURBS (50%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Advertising and Marketing; Employee Owned Companies; Labor; Newspapers; Newspapers

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (86%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Knight Ridder; Mcclatchy Co; San Jose Mercury News; Medianews Group; Yucaipa Cos

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (86%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (86%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



424 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine's Blitz of Baltimore 

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
BALTIMORE is known for crab cakes, the Orioles, Old Bay seasoning, residents who affectionately call you ''Hon,'' and movies like ''Diner'' and ''Hairspray,'' made, respectively, by the native sons Barry Levinson and John Waters. Someday, if The Economist has its way, Baltimore may also be known as the starting point for an unusual magazine marketing initiative.
 The Economist, the venerable weekly published by the British company Pearson, is using Baltimore -- chosen because it is a typical American market for the magazine -- to test a new effort to increase newsstand and subscription sales, along with brand awareness. The test involves employees of the magazine and four agencies on both sides of the Atlantic. 
The test, costing an estimated $500,000, is unleashing a panoply of advertising and promotional efforts on metropolitan Baltimore. Among them are posters, print advertisements, banner ads on Web sites, radio commercials, direct mail, local events, signs at newsstands and a public relations campaign.
 The Economist is even giving away outdoor cafe umbrellas, in its trademark shade of red, that declare, ''Talk about more than just the weather.''
 The test began Feb. 22 and is scheduled to run six weeks. It is a sign of the growing role that marketing now plays as media companies seek to stimulate revenue. As the Internet makes it more difficult for print media to attract advertising dollars, revenue from readers is becoming more important.
 ''We have a vision to grow The Economist in North America to be a leading magazine,'' said Paul Rossi, the magazine's publisher for North America, who is based in New York. He wants his magazine, which focuses on international politics and business news, to draw the types of readers who now buy publications like Business Week, The New Yorker, Newsweek and Time.
 ''We want to see if we can move brand awareness, newsstand sales, subscription sales, by doing some of the things here we do in the U.K.,'' he added. ''Research shows there's opportunity.''
 Of The Economist's worldwide circulation of just under 1.1 million, Mr. Rossi said, North America accounts for a bit more than half, at 569,336, a figure that has increased 47.3 percent since 2001. Circulation in the Baltimore area, 4,998 copies, has increased similarly during the same period, by 46.4 percent.
 The results from the test will be compared with results from Pittsburgh, a market in which The Economist is sponsoring no concerted marketing campaign. If the results indicate that it makes sense to spend money on focused local ads, The Economist will expand the test.
 ''It's a multilocal kind of strategy,'' said Susan Clark, global marketing director at The Economist, who is based in London.
 ''Our customers, who are high-income, high-education, tend to cluster'' in markets like Baltimore, Boston, Dallas, Denver, San Francisco and Austin, Tex, she said.
 ''While we think we have the ability to double our North American circulation within five years, we don't think we can afford to do a truly national initiative,'' Ms. Clark said. The Economist spends about $25 million each year on marketing around the world, Ms. Clark said, including the cost of subscription mailings. The Baltimore campaign offers 25 weeks of The Economist for $49.90 -- on par with cards inside the magazine offering 30 weeks for $59.90.
 Before the test, consumers in the Baltimore area were asked about their awareness of The Economist, Ms. Clark said. There will be another survey after the test, and the data will be measured against the control results from Pittsburgh.
 Another question the test aims to answer is whether the marketing blitz will raise the percentage of households in Baltimore that subscribe to The Economist, which Ms. Clark said now stands at 0.17. ''We want to see if it increases,'' she added, ''and if it goes up, how that is relative to Pittsburgh.'' 
 The campaign is based on the award-winning work created for The Economist since 1988 by AMV BBDO in London, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. The low-key, humorous approach of the work is typified by headlines like ''Money talks, but sometimes it needs an interpreter,'' ''Is it a superiority complex if you really are?'' and ''The head of British intelligence.''
 In Britain, the ads ''focus on the benefit of reading The Economist, that you'll be a more successful person,'' said Clare Hutchinson, board account planner at AMV BBDO. ''In the U.S., we're focusing more on the product, and alluding to the benefit for the reader.''
 The reason, she added, is that research among Americans ''found not only a very low awareness of The Economist, but also a strong misperception of what The Economist is; based on its title, people felt it was a journal of economics.''
 In developing ads for the test, Ms. Hutchinson said, AMV BBDO turned to a new employee, an American named Aaron Adler, an art director who had worked at the BBDO headquarters in New York.
 ''That helped us determine which executions wouldn't translate'' from Britain to the United States, she said, adding that he also created some ads with a distinctly American quality.
 Ms. Hutchinson gave as an example a Baltimore ad with a double meaning that carries the headline ''Topical solution,'' saying: ''We don't have that expression. It was the first Economist ad that left the Brits scratching their heads.''
 Two other Omnicom agencies are also working on the test: Ketchum, for tasks like public relations, and PHD, for media planning. The Chicago office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas, is producing the mailed subscription offers.
 Perhaps one day the quintessential marketing query ''Will it play in Peoria?'' will be supplanted by ''Will it be boffo in Baltimore?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ads for The Economist, like this one in a light rail station, are common sights in Baltimore. (Photo by Steve Ruark for Ketchum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); NEWSSTANDS (90%); BRANDING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); AWARENESS MARKETING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); BRAND EQUITY (74%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (67%) Magazines; Advertising and Marketing; Magazines

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (84%) Economist (Magazine)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) Baltimore (Md)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



425 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:

SOFT OPENING -- Oracle, the business software giant and voracious consumer of once-powerful rivals like PeopleSoft and Siebel Systems, will report earnings this week, about a month after announcing that it will lay off 2,000 workers, about 3 percent of its total work force. (Monday.) 


RATINGS BREAK -- Fox Television, it seems, can't lose for winning. Last year, the network put on ''Prison Break,'' a kind of ''Shawshank Redemption'' in double-time, as a throwaway to tide over viewers until its Emmy-winning drama ''24'' resumed. The result is that the network now has two hit series, which they are pairing tonight when ''Prison Break'' returns after a hiatus. (Monday.)

OVER THE WALL -- Last week, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns all reported record results, putting a lot of pressure on cleanup hitter Morgan Stanley to do the same after a difficult year that included a coup d'etat. Inside the firm, bankers are still quietly celebrating the return of John Mack to the corner office, but the stock price lags, at least by Wall Street's standards. (Wednesday.)

INFLATION WATCH -- The Labor Department Producer Price Index should give some clues as to whether inflation is under control and, ultimately, what the Fed plans to do about interest rates. Economists are predicting a mild decline. (Tuesday.) Fedologists will also keep a keen ear trained on the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, as he addresses the Economics Club of New York with a little number he likes to call ''Reflections on the Yield Curve and Monetary Policy.'' (Monday.)

OVERNIGHT -- As FedEx goes, so goes the American economy. No one knows if that's actually true, but it is said often enough to drum up some extra attention for this week's earnings report from the courier company. (Wednesday.)

LUCKY CHARMS -- Trix may be for kids, but investors probably know General Mills, the country's second-biggest cereal maker, better for being the company that has granted dividends for 107 years. The company reports this week. (Thursday.)

ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Conference Board leading economic indicators (Monday); existing home sales (Thursday); new home sales (Friday); jobless claims (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (85%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); PRODUCER PRICES (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); BREAKFAST CEREAL MFG (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); YIELD CURVE (64%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (63%); COUPS (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (95%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (52%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (95%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); GIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (95%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (52%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (52%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



426 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.61 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 4.77 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 4.48 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 

TOMORROW
 Anne Arundel County, Md., $153.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Illinois sales tax revenue, $65 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Oklahoma City, $80 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $135.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Richmond, Ky., $50 million of revenue bonds. Competitive. 

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Alamo Community College District, San Antonio, $61 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Dallas County, Tex., $100 million of certificates of obligation for combination tax and parking garage revenue. First Southwest.
 Dormitory Authority of the State of New York, $75 million in state personal income tax revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Energy Northwest, Richland, Wash., $806.8 million of electric revenue refunding bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Farmington, N.M., Public Service Company, $146 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Goose Creek, Tex., Consolidated Independent School District, $130.4 million of unlimited tax schoolhouse and refunding bonds. First Southwest.
 Jersey City, $103.2 million of debt securities. UBS.
 Maine Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $55.6 million of revenue bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
 Maryland Economic Development Corporation, $133.6 million of debt securities for University of Maryland, College Park projects. Wachovia Bank.
 Miami-Dade County, Fla., School District, $204 million of certificates of participation. UBS.
 New Jersey Educational Facilities Authority, $50 million of debt securities for Ramapo College. Merrill Lynch.
 New York State, $101.2 million of general obligation refunding bonds. UBS.
 New York State, $75.6 million of general obligation refunding bonds. UBS. 
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $90 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Salina, Kan., Regional Health Center, $62.5 million of refunding revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
 Shoreline, Wash., School District No. 412, $72.3 million of general obligation improvement and refunding bonds. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
 Tarrant Regional Water District, Fort Worth, $180 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 University of Texas System, $100 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SALES TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (70%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); ENERGY NORTHWEST (55%); PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF NEW MEXICO (54%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (53%); PJC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); SALINA, KS, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



427 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Plight Deepens For Black Men, Studies Warn 

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Black men in the United States face a far more dire situation than is portrayed by common employment and education statistics, a flurry of new scholarly studies warn, and it has worsened in recent years even as an economic boom and a welfare overhaul have brought gains to black women and other groups. 
 Focusing more closely than ever on the life patterns of young black men, the new studies, by experts at Columbia, Princeton, Harvard and other institutions, show that the huge pool of poorly educated black men are becoming ever more disconnected from the mainstream society, and to a far greater degree than comparable white or Hispanic men.
 Especially in the country's inner cities, the studies show, finishing high school is the exception, legal work is scarcer than ever and prison is almost routine, with incarceration rates climbing for blacks even as urban crime rates have declined. 
 Although the problems afflicting poor black men have been known for decades, the new data paint a more extensive and sobering picture of the challenges they face. 
 ''There's something very different happening with young black men, and it's something we can no longer ignore,'' said Ronald B. Mincy, professor of social work at Columbia University and editor of ''Black Males Left Behind'' (Urban Institute Press, 2006).
 ''Over the last two decades, the economy did great,'' Mr. Mincy said, ''and low-skilled women, helped by public policy, latched onto it. But young black men were falling farther back.''
 Many of the new studies go beyond the traditional approaches to looking at the plight of black men, especially when it comes to determining the scope of joblessness. For example, official unemployment rates can be misleading because they do not include those not seeking work or incarcerated. 
 ''If you look at the numbers, the 1990's was a bad decade for young black men, even though it had the best labor market in 30 years,'' said Harry J. Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University and co-author, with Peter Edelman and Paul Offner, of ''Reconnecting Disadvantaged Young Men'' (Urban Institute Press, 2006). 
 In response to the worsening situation for young black men, a growing number of programs are placing as much importance on teaching life skills -- like parenting, conflict resolution and character building -- as they are on teaching job skills.
 These were among the recent findings: 
 The share of young black men without jobs has climbed relentlessly, with only a slight pause during the economic peak of the late 1990's. In 2000, 65 percent of black male high school dropouts in their 20's were jobless -- that is, unable to find work, not seeking it or incarcerated. By 2004, the share had grown to 72 percent, compared with 34 percent of white and 19 percent of Hispanic dropouts. Even when high school graduates were included, half of black men in their 20's were jobless in 2004, up from 46 percent in 2000. 
 Incarceration rates climbed in the 1990's and reached historic highs in the past few years. In 1995, 16 percent of black men in their 20's who did not attend college were in jail or prison; by 2004, 21 percent were incarcerated. By their mid-30's, 6 in 10 black men who had dropped out of school had spent time in prison. 
 In the inner cities, more than half of all black men do not finish high school. 
 None of the litany of problems that young black men face was news to a group of men from the airless neighborhoods of Baltimore who recently described their experiences. 
 One of them, Curtis E. Brannon, told a story so commonplace it hardly bears notice here. He quit school in 10th grade to sell drugs, fathered four children with three mothers, and spent several stretches in jail for drug possession, parole violations and other crimes. 
 ''I was with the street life, but now I feel like I've got to get myself together,'' Mr. Brannon said recently in the row-house flat he shares with his girlfriend and four children. ''You get tired of incarceration.'' 
 Mr. Brannon, 28, said he planned to look for work, perhaps as a mover, and he noted optimistically that he had not been locked up in six months.
 A group of men, including Mr. Brannon, gathered at the Center for Fathers, Families and Workforce Development, one of several private agencies trying to help men build character along with workplace skills. 
 The clients readily admit to their own bad choices but say they also fight a pervasive sense of hopelessness. 
 ''It hurts to get that boot in the face all the time,'' said Steve Diggs, 34. ''I've had a lot of charges but only a few convictions,'' he said of his criminal record. 
 Mr. Diggs is now trying to strike out on his own, developing a party space for rentals, but he needs help with business skills. 
 ''I don't understand,'' said William Baker, 47. ''If a man wants to change, why won't society give him a chance to prove he's a changed person?'' Mr. Baker has a lot of record to overcome, he admits, not least his recent 15-year stay in the state penitentiary for armed robbery. 
 Mr. Baker led a visitor down the Pennsylvania Avenue strip he wants to escape -- past idlers, addicts and hustlers, storefront churches and fortresslike liquor stores -- and described a life that seemed inevitable. 
 He sold marijuana for his parents, he said, left school in the sixth grade and later dealt heroin and cocaine. He was for decades addicted to heroin, he said, easily keeping the habit during three terms in prison. But during his last long stay, he also studied hard to get a G.E.D. and an associate's degree. 
 Now out for 18 months, Mr. Baker is living in a home for recovering drug addicts. He is working a $10-an-hour warehouse job while he ponders how to make a living from his real passion, drawing and graphic arts. 
 ''I don't want to be a criminal at 50,'' Mr. Baker said. 
 According to census data, there are about five million black men ages 20 to 39 in the United States.
 Terrible schools, absent parents, racism, the decline in blue collar jobs and a subculture that glorifies swagger over work have all been cited as causes of the deepening ruin of black youths. Scholars -- and the young men themselves -- agree that all of these issues must be addressed. 
 Joseph T. Jones, director of the fatherhood and work skills center here, puts the breakdown of families at the core. 
 ''Many of these men grew up fatherless, and they never had good role models,'' said Mr. Jones, who overcame addiction and prison time. ''No one around them knows how to navigate the mainstream society.'' 
 All the negative trends are associated with poor schooling, studies have shown, and progress has been slight in recent years. Federal data tend to understate dropout rates among the poor, in part because imprisoned youths are not counted. 
 Closer studies reveal that in inner cities across the country, more than half of all black men still do not finish high school, said Gary Orfield, an education expert at Harvard and editor of ''Dropouts in America'' (Harvard Education Press, 2004). 
 ''We're pumping out boys with no honest alternative,'' Mr. Orfield said in an interview, ''and of course their neighborhoods offer many other alternatives.''
 Dropout rates for Hispanic youths are as bad or worse but are not associated with nearly as much unemployment or crime, the data show.
 With the shift from factory jobs, unskilled workers of all races have lost ground, but none more so than blacks. By 2004, 50 percent of black men in their 20's who lacked a college education were jobless, as were72 percent of high school dropouts, according to data compiled by Bruce Western, a sociologist at Princeton and author of the forthcoming book ''Punishment and Inequality in America'' (Russell Sage Press). These are more than double the rates for white and Hispanic men.
 Mr. Holzer of Georgetown and his co-authors cite two factors that have curbed black employment in particular.
 First, the high rate of incarceration and attendant flood of former offenders into neighborhoods have become major impediments. Men with criminal records tend to be shunned by employers, and young blacks with clean records suffer by association, studies have found. 
 Arrests of black men climbed steeply during the crack epidemic of the 1980's, but since then the political shift toward harsher punishments, more than any trends in crime, has accounted for the continued growth in the prison population, Mr. Western said.
 By their mid-30's, 30 percent of black men with no more than a high school education have served time in prison, and 60 percent of dropouts have, Mr. Western said. 
 Among black dropouts in their late 20's, more are in prison on a given day -- 34 percent -- than are working -- 30 percent -- according to an analysis of 2000 census data by Steven Raphael of the University of California, Berkeley.
 The second special factor is related to an otherwise successful policy: the stricter enforcement of child support. Improved collection of money from absent fathers has been a pillar of welfare overhaul. But the system can leave young men feeling overwhelmed with debt and deter them from seeking legal work, since a large share of any earnings could be seized. 
 About half of all black men in their late 20's and early 30's who did not go to college are noncustodial fathers, according to Mr. Holzer. From the fathers' viewpoint, support obligations ''amount to a tax on earnings,'' he said. 
 Some fathers give up, while others find casual work. ''The work is sporadic, not the kind that leads to advancement or provides unemployment insurance,'' Mr. Holzer said. ''It's nothing like having a real job.'' 
 The recent studies identified a range of government programs and experiments, especially education and training efforts like the Job Corps, that had shown success and could be scaled up. 
 Scholars call for intensive new efforts to give children a better start, including support for parents and extra schooling for children. 
 They call for teaching skills to prisoners and helping them re-enter society more productively, and for less automatic incarceration of minor offenders. 
 In a society where higher education is vital to economic success, Mr. Mincy of Columbia said, programs to help more men enter and succeed in college may hold promise. But he lamented the dearth of policies and resources to aid single men. 
 ''We spent $50 billion in efforts that produced the turnaround for poor women,'' Mr. Mincy said. ''We are not even beginning to think about the men's problem on similar orders of magnitude.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis E. Brannon of Baltimore with Curtis Jr., one of the four children he has fathered with three mothers. ''I was with the street life,'' Mr. Brannon said, ''but now I feel like I've got to get myself together.'' (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart: ''Falling Behind''The percentage of young, poorly educated black men who do not have jobs has increased in recent years, more so than in groups like whites and Hispanics. The jobless rate is a measure of those unable to find work, not seeking it or incarcerated.Jobless rate among male high school dropouts, ages 22-30Graph tracks jobless rate among whites, blacks, and hispanic male high school dropouts, ages 22-30 since 1980.Jobless rate among males who did not attend college, ages 22-30Graph tracks jobless rate among white, blacks and hispanic males who did not attend college, ages 22-30 since 1980.(Source by Bruce Western, Meredith Kleykamp and Jake Rosenfeld, Princeton University)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRISONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WOMEN (77%); CITIES (74%); CRIME RATES (73%); PARENTING (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (65%) Blacks; Men; Women; Research; Urban Areas; Prisons and Prisoners; Blacks; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); URBAN INSTITUTE (54%) Harvard University; Princeton University; Columbia University 

PERSON: Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%) MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



428 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Top Iraqi Leaders Agree to Form a Policy Council 

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; An Iraqi employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Kirkuk for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 19 

 BODY:
Iraqi officials announced Sunday that they had agreed to form a council of the country's top politicians to make policy on security and economic issues in the new government. The council, which will include the prime minister and president, is an attempt to include all the country's major factions in decision making at a time of rising sectarian tensions.
 The Iraqi Constitution approved by voters last fall does not have language supporting the creation of such a council. The 19-member body will essentially concentrate power in the hands of the country's political party leaders, and supersede the cabinet and Parliament in making broad decisions. 
The move is a step forward in the snail-paced negotiations over the formation of a full, four-year government. Debate over creating the so-called national security council, and what powers it would wield, had contributed to the deadlock in the talks.
 The main Shiite political bloc, which is expected to hold the most executive power in the new government, had opposed formation of the council, while the Kurds, Sunni Arabs, secular politicians and the Americans had pushed for it.
 Many Shiite leaders viewed the idea of the council, first proposed by Massoud Barzani, the president of Iraqi Kurdistan, as an attempt to hamstring the prime minister, expected to be a Shiite, and check the power of the main Shiite bloc, known as the United Iraqi Alliance.
 But on Sunday, after five hours of negotiations at President Jalal Talabani's guest villa here, the Shiites agreed to the council's formation. Because of the way the council will be set up, the Shiites, who constitute the largest political bloc in Parliament, will have an effective veto over council decisions.
 Furthermore, the prime minister or president will be able to override any decisions they disagree with if the decisions conflict with the executives' constitutional authority, Iraqi officials said.
 Otherwise, the council's actions will be considered binding.
 ''It's a good thing,'' said Adnan Pachachi, the temporary speaker of Parliament and a secular politician. ''It's a safety valve in a way. Decisions will be taken in which all major political parties will be part of. No one will accuse the prime minister of making decisions on his own.''
 The council is expected to make policy on security issues, like how to build up and deploy the Iraqi Army and the police, how to disarm the country's many militias and what to do about insurgent territories like Anbar Province in western Iraq, Iraqi officials said. The council will also address economic matters, including oil revenue and the budget.
 Any decisions that require legislation will be put before Parliament, Mr. Pachachi said. But the Parliament will probably support any decisions made by the council because all the leaders of the major parliamentary blocs will sit on the council, he added.
 The council's decisions require a two-thirds vote of its 19 members. The president, prime minister, speaker of Parliament and the leader of any autonomous region (only Iraqi Kurdistan, for now) get seats on the council. The rest will be given to other party leaders. Over all, the seats will be distributed in proportion to the percentage of Parliament controlled by each major bloc.
 According to that system, the main Shiite religious bloc will get nine seats, the Kurds four, the main Sunni Arab religious bloc three, the secular bloc two and a smaller Sunni Arab bloc one, Mr. Pachachi said. The two-thirds vote requirement effectively gives the Shiite members final say over any decision, as long as they remain united.
 The council will operate parallel to the cabinet but will have greater responsibility for broad policy decisions. The cabinet will run the day-to-day affairs of the government ministries. Part of the motivation for creating the council is a desire to check the power of the ministers, especially those in charge of security.
 Control of the Interior and Defense Ministries has been one of the most hotly debated issues in the talks to form a government. Each political bloc suspects the others of sectarian motives in trying to control the armed forces. With heightened sectarian tensions and talk of impending civil war on the rise, whoever controls the army and the police would have a guaranteed arms supply. Besides the prime minister and president, who have yet to be chosen, the politicians expected to sit on the national security council include Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, leader of the Shiite bloc; Tarik al-Hashimi, leader of the main Sunni Arab bloc; Saleh al-Mutlak, leader of the smaller Sunni Arab bloc; Ayad Allawi, the former prime minister and a secularist; and Mr. Barzani, the president of Iraqi Kurdistan.
 ''It's true that there's no explicit mention of it in the Constitution,'' Mr. Hashimi said at a news conference at Mr. Talabani's villa. ''We think that the salvation of Iraq for the time being lies in showing a lot of flexibility in establishing new political bodies that include all the components of the Iraqi people.''
 The political leaders must now tackle other deeply contentious issues in the talks to form a government. At the top of the list is the Shiite nomination of Ibrahim al-Jaafari, the current prime minister, to retain that post. The other blocs oppose Mr. Jaafari's nomination, and have demanded that the Shiites present a new candidate. Mr. Jaafari has come under sharp criticism for failing to quell the violence and for the huge shortcomings in postwar reconstruction.
 The political jockeying took place as Mr. Allawi, the former prime minister, told the BBC News on Sunday that the country was already mired in civil war. ''It is unfortunate that we are in civil war,'' he said. ''We are losing each day, as an average, 50 to 60 people throughout the country, if not more. If this is not civil war, then God knows what civil war is.''
 At least 15 bodies, all of them shot, were found across Baghdad on Sunday, police and hospital officials said. More than 200 bodies have been discovered in nearly two weeks, virtually all believed to be victims of sectarian violence.
 A homemade bomb killed a police commando in Baghdad on Sunday. In Kirkuk, a cluster bomb left from the American invasion of 2003 exploded, killing a shepherd and a 6-year-old boy, said Lt. Col. Yadgar Abdullah of the Kirkuk police department.
 The police found two Iraqi soldiers shot dead in Hawija, west of Kirkuk. Officials in Basra said two employees of the South Oil Company were shot to death on Saturday night. Both were members of the Iraqi Islamic Party, a conservative Sunni Arab group, and had been handcuffed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (79%); VETO (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ARMIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: JALAL TALABANI (57%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



429 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: At World Forum, Support Erodes for Private Management of Water

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 19 

 BODY:
For more than a decade, the idea that private companies would be able to bring water to the world's poor has been a mantra of development policies promoted by international lending agencies and many governments. 
 It has not happened. In the past decade, according to a private water suppliers trade group, private companies have managed to extend water service to just 10 million people, less than 1 percent of those who need it. Some 1.1 billion people still lack access to clean water, the United Nations says.
The reality behind those numbers is sinking in. At the fourth World Water Forum, a six-day conference here of industry, governments and nongovernmental organizations, there is little talk of privatization. 
 Instead, many people here want to return to relying on the local public utilities that still supply 90 percent of the water to those households that have it. 
 There is a ''big-time shift'' in tone, said David Boys, a water policy expert with the Public Services International labor federation. Mr. Boys is a member of an advisory panel appointed by United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, that presented its recommendations at the forum, beginning with a call to strengthen local public utilities. 
 ''The companies have lost tons of dough and tons of respect,'' Mr. Boys said. ''They are pulling out.''
 Nowhere has that been more evident than in Bolivia, where, in the city of El Alto, residents have been fighting a subsidiary of the French company Suez. The government is now negotiating for Suez to leave, arguing that it did not extend service to people too poor to pay enough to make it profitable.
 ''The water rates have to conform to reality,'' said Abel Mamani, an activist from El Alto who is now Bolivia's new water minister. 
 An uprising in the city of Cochabamba five years ago chased out a subsidiary of the United States company Bechtel after it raised rates but failed to improve service.
 Bolivian officials at the World Water Forum admitted that the old public municipal water systems were mired in corruption, bureaucracy and nepotism. 
 ''The solution is for the community to get involved in water management,'' said Pablo Solon, an economic adviser to the government. 
 That kind of citizen oversight is already in place in many cities, like Porto Alegre, Brazil, which created a permanent council of 12 citizens' groups to oversee its water utility.
 Even officials of the World Water Council, the organization that runs the forum and is heavily weighted toward multinational water companies, appear to be giving up on wholesale privatization.
 ''Let's finance infrastructure for the 50 countries most in need and the twenty poorest megacities through a more intense donation policy,'' said Loic Fauchon, president of the council, in his opening speech last week. 
 The debate over privatization is driving the controversy inside and outside the forum, which ends Tuesday. Across town, international and local groups held an alternative forum for activists opposed to privatization, who are unconvinced that governments and organizations like the World Bank have given up on the idea. 
 ''The state does not assume its responsibilities properly,'' said Cuauhtemoc Abarca, a Mexico City activist. ''In many cases there is a deliberate intention to show that public utilities work badly'' as an excuse to privatize them. 
 For all the focus on privatization, much of the serious work of the forum was rooted in heart-wrenching statistics. 
 One in three people in the world, 2.6 billion, does not have access to any kind of toilet or latrine, according to a United Nations report to be presented at the conference on Tuesday. 
 Water-related diseases cause more than three million deaths a year, mostly of children younger than 5. Unicef, the United Nations children's agency, estimates that women and girls in the poorest countries and regions walk nearly four miles a day to carry water.
 Only $3 billion in aid a year goes to improve water access and sanitation, the United Nations World Water Development Report said, and very little of that gets to the people who need it most. 
 But there was encouraging news, too, that local activists, even very young ones, could make a difference. 
 ''We were scolded for being young people with big ideas,'' said Suresh Baral, 13, who organized a sanitation club in his school in rural Nepal. With help from Unicef, the children set up a microfinance program to help villagers pay for installing toilets. 
 Dolly Akhter, 15, started a hygiene group for adolescent girls in her slum in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Many teenage girls stayed away from school, too embarrassed by the lack of privacy for hygiene.
 But when the group brought in new latrines, the girls returned and several were able to avoid early marriages by continuing their studies. 
 As her news conference ended, she looked up and said in broken English, ''I hope water for all in the world.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (60%) Water; World Water Forum; Privatization; Water

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); PUBLIC SERVICES INTERNATIONAL (55%) United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (64%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (93%); BOLIVIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (78%) Mexico City (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



430 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Before Former Enron Chief Executives Testify, U.S. Hopes for Big Assist From Ex-Treasurer
The government heads this week into the final stretch of its case against two former Enron chief executives. Prosecutors will be looking to end on a flourish with the testimony of Ben F. Glisan Jr., the only former top Enron executive who has already been sentenced. Mr. Glisan, the former treasurer, is the last power-hitter on the government's bench who is set to take the stand before the case shifts to the defense and what promises to be memorable testimony by the defendants, Jeffrey K. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay. [Page C1.] 


Patent Case Could Have Wide-Ranging Effect
For the first time in a quarter-century, the Supreme Court will hear a case involving the basic question of what type of discoveries and inventions can be patented. The case, which involves a blood test for a vitamin deficiency, could have a wide-ranging impact on the development of diagnostics. But the array of companies filing supporting briefs indicates that intellectual property in other fields may also be affected. [C1.]

Bangalore Lures Technology Start-Ups
Bangalore, India, is well known for its flourishing outsourcing companies, which have attracted worldwide attention with their global clients and tens of thousands of workers. Less known are the many technology start-ups, like Read-Ink Technologies, that have taken root there in recent years. Read-Ink is developing an advanced handwriting recognition software that can read scanned forms, claim forms and medical records. Its founders, above, are Ione Binford, a former manager at Hewlett-Packard , and her husband, Thomas O. Binford, a retired computer science professor from Stanford. [C4.]

San Jose Paper, Once Cutting Edge, Orphaned by Deal
The McClatchy Company's deal to acquire the Knight Ridder newspaper chain does not include keeping The San Jose Mercury News, which calls itself ''the user manual for Silicon Valley.'' P. Anthony Ridder, the chairman of Knight Ridder, who moved the company's corporate headquarters to San Jose, Calif., from Miami in 1998, a move that reflected the paper's cutting-edge status, expressed shock, a view shared by nearly everyone at the paper. But the newspaper has high operating costs, a lower-than-average profit margin, and a home base growing slower than some others.[C1.]

Verizon Chief Makes Big Bets on Technology
Ivan Seidenberg is taking a big risk as he spends money on turning Verizon Communications into a fast-growing technology company. [C1.]

Microsoft Takes Aim at Craigslist Classified Ads
Microsoft has introduced Windows Live Expo, another node in its growing network of Internet services, and a challenger to the heart of Craigslist: free, local classified ads. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C4.]

At Amazon.com, a Dispute Over Abortion Searches
Amazon.com last week modified its search engine after an abortion rights organization complained that search results appeared skewed toward anti-abortion books. [C8.]

The Economist Uses Baltimore as Testing Ground
The Economist, the venerable weekly published by the British company Pearson, is using Baltimore -- chosen because it is a typical American market for The Economist -- to test an effort to increase newsstand and subscription sales. The test involves employees of the magazine and four agencies on both sides of the Atlantic. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PATENTS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (85%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (83%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); PATENT LAW (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); OUTSOURCING (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); MALNUTRITION (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (50%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MCCLATCHY CO (81%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); CRAIGSLIST INC (50%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (81%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



431 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Bogus Bush Bashing

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
''The single word most frequently associated with George W. Bush today is 'incompetent,' and close behind are two other increasingly mentioned descriptors: 'idiot' and 'liar.' '' So says the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, whose most recent poll found that only 33 percent of the public approves of the job President Bush is doing. 
 Mr. Bush, of course, bears primary responsibility for the state of his presidency. But there's more going on here than his personal inadequacy; we're looking at the failure of a movement as well as a man. As evidence, consider the fact that most of the conservatives now rushing to distance themselves from Mr. Bush still can't bring themselves to criticize his actual policies. Instead, they accuse him of policy sins -- in particular, of being a big spender on domestic programs -- that he has not, in fact, committed. 
Before I get to the bogus issue of domestic spending, let's look at the policies the new wave of conservative Bush bashers refuses to criticize.
 Mr. Bush's new conservative critics don't say much about the issue that most disturbs the public, the quagmire in Iraq. That's not surprising. Commentators who acted as cheerleaders in the run-up to war, and in many cases questioned the patriotism of those of us who were skeptical, can't criticize the decision to start this war without facing up to their own complicity in that decision. 
 Nor, after years of insisting that things were going well in Iraq and denouncing anyone who said otherwise, is it easy for them to criticize Mr. Bush's almost surreal bungling of the war. (William Kristol of The Weekly Standard is the exception; he says that we never made a ''serious effort'' in Iraq, which will come as news to the soldiers.)
 Meanwhile, the continuing allegiance of conservatives to tax cuts as the universal policy elixir prevents them from saying anything about the real sources of the federal budget deficit, in particular Mr. Bush's unprecedented decision to cut taxes in the middle of a war. (My colleague Bob Herbert points out that the Iraq hawks chose to fight a war with other people's children. They chose to fight it with other people's money, too.)
 They can't even criticize Mr. Bush for the systematic dishonesty of his budgets. For one thing, that dishonesty has been apparent for five years. More than that, some prominent conservative commentators actually celebrated the administration's dishonesty. In 2001 Time.com blogger Andrew Sullivan, writing in The New Republic, conceded that Mr. Bush wasn't truthful about his economic policies. But Mr. Sullivan approved of the deception: ''Bush has to obfuscate his real goals of reducing spending with the smokescreen of 'compassionate conservatism.' '' As Berkeley's Brad DeLong puts it on his blog, conservatives knew that Mr. Bush was lying about the budget, but they thought they were in on the con.
 So what's left? Well, it's safe for conservatives to criticize Mr. Bush for presiding over runaway growth in domestic spending, because that implies that he betrayed his conservative supporters. There's only one problem with this criticism: it's not true.
 It's true that federal spending as a percentage of G.D.P. rose between 2001 and 2005. But the great bulk of this increase was accounted for by increased spending on defense and homeland security, including the costs of the Iraq war, and by rising health care costs. 
 Conservatives aren't criticizing Mr. Bush for his defense spending. Since the Medicare drug program didn't start until 2006, the Bush administration can't be blamed for the rise in health care costs before then. Whatever other fiscal excesses took place weren't large enough to play more than a marginal role in spending growth. 
 So where does the notion of Bush the big spender come from? In a direct sense it comes largely from Brian Riedl of the Heritage Foundation, who issued a report last fall alleging that government spending was out of control. Mr. Riedl is very good at his job; his report shifts artfully back and forth among various measures of spending (nominal, real, total, domestic, discretionary, domestic discretionary), managing to convey the false impression that soaring spending on domestic social programs is a major cause of the federal budget deficit without literally lying.
 But the reason conservatives fall for the Heritage spin is that it suits their purposes. They need to repudiate George W. Bush, but they can't admit that when Mr. Bush made his key mistakes -- starting an unnecessary war, and using dishonest numbers to justify tax cuts -- they were cheering him on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POLITICS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



432 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: ON ANNIVERSARY, BUSH AND CHENEY SEE IRAQ SUCCESS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
On the third anniversary of a war that they once expected to be over by now, President Bush and senior officials argued Sunday that their strategy was working despite escalating violence in Iraq, even as a former Iraqi prime minister once favored by the White House declared that a civil war had already started.
 Displaying a carefully calibrated mix of optimism about eventual victory and caution about how long American troops would be involved, the officials who marked the day -- including Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld -- sounded much as they had on the first anniversary of the invasion. At that time, the rebuilding effort had just begun, the insurgency was far less fierce, and the American occupation had suppressed, temporarily, the sectarian violence scarring Iraq today.
The picture painted by the administration clashed with that of the former interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi, once hailed by Mr. Bush as the kind of fair-minded leader Iraq needed. He declared in an interview with the BBC that the country was nearing a ''point of no return.'' 
 ''It is unfortunate that we are in civil war,'' said Mr. Allawi, who served as prime minister after the American invasion and now leads a 25-seat secular alliance of representatives in Iraq's 275-seat National Assembly. ''We are losing each day, as an average, 50 to 60 people through the country, if not more.''
 ''If this is not civil war,'' he said, ''then God knows what civil war is.'' 
 Mr. Allawi's assessment was contradicted by Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the senior American commander in Iraq, who said on CNN's ''Late Edition'' that ''We're a long way from civil war.'' 
 As politicians in Baghdad moved incrementally forward on Sunday on forming a unified government, at least 15 more bodies were discovered around the capital, bringing to more than 200 the number of people believed killed in sectarian violence in the past few weeks. [Page A10.]
 On CBS News' ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Cheney sought to place the war in a broader context. ''It's not just about Iraq, it's not about just today's situation in Iraq,'' he said. ''It's about where we're going to be 10 years from now in the Middle East and whether or not there's going to be hope and the development of the governments that are responsive to the will of the people, that are not a threat to anyone, that are not safe havens for terror or manufacturers of weapons of mass destruction.'' 
 The war has taken more than 2,300 American lives, and those of 33,000 to 37,000 Iraqis, according to the estimates of the Iraq Body Count Project, an independent group that monitors the news media. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld dismissed calls for withdrawal by comparing the current battle to the two great struggles of his generation: World War II and the cold war. ''Turning our backs on postwar Iraq today would be the modern equivalent of handing postwar Germany back to the Nazis,'' he wrote in an op-ed article published in The Washington Post. ''It would be as great a disgrace as if we had asked the liberated nations of Eastern Europe to return to Soviet domination.''
 Mr. Bush is entering the fourth year of the war able to declare success in the dismantling of Saddam Hussein's tyrannical government and in providing a framework for democratic elections, though the country has so far failed to put together the institutions to make a democracy work. Mr. Bush's approval rating, which soared in the early days of the invasion as Americans rushed to Baghdad, has sunk to the low-to-mid 30 percent range as the chaos and number of Iraqis meeting violent deaths has escalated.
 Mr. Cheney was challenged on ''Face the Nation'' about his statement three years ago that ''we will be greeted as liberators'' and his assertion 10 months ago that the insurgency was in its ''last throes.'' 
 He insisted that in both cases his facts were right, but that the news media had created a different perception with vivid imagery of killing. 
 ''I think it has less to do with the statements we've made, which I think were basically accurate and reflect reality, than it does with the fact that there's a constant sort of perception, if you will, that's created because what's newsworthy is the car bomb in Baghdad,'' he said. 
 The administration could take heart this weekend from the relatively small antiwar protests around the country, compared with protests held on the previous anniversaries of the invasion. An estimated 7,000 people demonstrated in Chicago on Saturday and smaller protests were held over the weekend in Boston, San Francisco and other cities. In Times Square, the figure was about 1,000. 
 Television was the forum where the administration's representatives and opponents marshaled the statistics that they believe made their cases. Mr. Bush argued last week that by year's end, Iraqi forces would control more than half the country; Representative John P. Murtha, the hawkish Pennsylvania Democrat who late last year called for American withdrawal, said Sunday on NBC News' ''Meet the Press'' that the statistic was meaningless.
 ''I flew for an hour and 15 minutes over desert,'' he said of a recent trip. ''Wasn't a soul. And that's the territory I guess they're talking about.'' Meanwhile, he noted, unemployment has soared in areas hardest hit by sectarian violence. Oil production, which the administration once said would pay for Iraq's rebuilding, was markedly below last year's levels.
 As midterm elections approach, the White House is concerned that support for the war is ebbing fastest among Republicans who supported the war, including some influential conservatives who argue that the job of liberation is done, and American troops should not be left in the crossfire of civil strife.
 Mr. Bush talked about the war in a two-minute statement to reporters on Sunday when he returned to the White House from Camp David, urging Iraq to form a unity government, and saying, ''I'm encouraged by the progress.'' Then he entered the White House with his wife, Laura.
 He offered no answers to questions about the gap between his expectations three years ago and the realities of Iraq today, seemingly underscoring the problem the White House has faced in explaining the war. Suspicions that Mr. Hussein had unconventional weapons, an original justification for the invasion, have proved unfounded.
 Mr. Bush halted eroding support for his Iraq strategy last December, explaining his military, political and economic strategy and admitting some early errors. But that was before images of Shiites fighting Sunnis began a new erosion of support.
 On the critical political question -- how long American forces will stay -- General Casey has said a significant presence will be required for ''a couple more years,'' and ''over 2006, we will continue to see a gradual reduction in coalition forces.''
 When the war was launched, the Pentagon expected a short conflict. Its classified plans called for the withdrawal of the majority of American troops by the fall of 2003. Today there are roughly 133,000 still there. 
 As of Friday, 2,313 American military personnel and Defense Department civilians had died during the Iraq effort; of those, 1,811 were killed in action and 502 in non-hostile events, like accidents, a Pentagon spokesman said Sunday. The spokesman also cited statistics that 7,912 American military personnel had been wounded so severely in action they could not return to duty, and 9,212 had been wounded in action but couldreturn to duty.
 Mr. Rumsfeld, whose refusal to send larger numbers of troops into Iraq after the invasion has made him a lightning rod for critics, said in his published remarks on Sunday that terrorists, not the American-led coalition, are losing in Iraq, a message repeated by Mr. Cheney. 
 And like Mr. Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld insisted the problem was the imagery from a 24-hour news cycle. ''Fortunately, history is not made up of daily headlines, blogs on Web sites or the latest sensational attack,'' Mr. Rumsfeld wrote. ''History is a bigger picture, and it takes some time and perspective to measure accurately.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on March 20 about the Bush administration's defense of its Iraq strategy misstated the magnitude of antiwar protests held in cities around the country on the weekend of March 18-19, the third anniversary of the American-led invasion. They were not all relatively small: while some 7,000 people demonstrated in Chicago on March 18 and smaller protests were held in other cities, a larger demonstration took place in Portland, Ore., on March 19, and organizers estimated that at least 10,000 people took part.

GRAPHIC: Photo: War protesters gathered yesterday in Portland, Ore., on the third anniversary of the war in Iraq. (Photo by Rick Bowmer/Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); RIOTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Demonstrations and Riots; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (90%) David E Sanger; Thom Shanker; George W (Pres) Bush; Ayad Allawi; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W Jr (Gen) Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq; Portland (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



433 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Illogical Cutbacks On Cancer

BYLINE: By Bob Herbert

 BODY:
When I was a kid I had the wildest crush on my Uncle Breeze's wife, Betty. She was beautiful and with all my heart I wanted to grow up and marry someone just like her.
 I remember acutely the sadness I felt some years later when my mother told me that Aunt Betty was ill. She died not long after that. Cervical cancer.
This old memory was brought back to me by, of all things, a small but telling item in President Bush's mammoth budget proposal. 
 The federal government has a national breast and cervical cancer early detection program, run by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It provides screening and other important services to low-income women who do not have health insurance, or are underinsured. 
 There is agreement across the board that the program is a success. It saves lives and it saves money. Its biggest problem is that it doesn't reach enough women. At the moment there is only enough funding to screen one in five eligible women.
 A sensible policy position for the Bush administration would be to expand funding for the program so that it reached everyone who was eligible. It terms of overall federal spending, the result would be a net decrease. Preventing cancer, or treating it early, is a lot less expensive than treating advanced cancer.
 So what did this president do? He proposed a cut in the program of $1.4 million (a minuscule amount when you're talking about the national budget), which would mean that 4,000 fewer women would have access to early detection.
 This makes no sense. In human terms, it is cruel. From a budget standpoint, it's self-defeating.
 ''The program is really designed to help working women,'' said Dan Smith, a senior vice president at the American Cancer Society. ''They may be working at a job that doesn't provide health insurance, but they're not the poorest of the poor who would qualify for Medicaid.''
 In many cases, these are women who do not have family doctors who might encourage them to be screened. The program offers free mammograms, Pap tests and other early detection services. ''If they're diagnosed,'' said Mr. Smith, ''there's a complementary program that allows them to be immediately insured so they can actually have the coverage for their treatment. That's a great program, as well.''
 ''The early detection program is a good program because it has saved lives,'' said Dr. Harold Freeman, a senior adviser to the Cancer Society. ''The women who are served come from a population that has a proven higher death rate from cervical and breast cancer.''
 He added: ''It's hard to get into the health care system when you are asymptomatic. It's much easier to get into the system if you're obviously sick, if you're bleeding or in pain. But the problem with cancer is, if you're going to be cured, you have to get in before those kinds of symptoms occur. So these women need to be screened.''
 Dr. Freeman, a New York physician who has long specialized in the prevention and treatment of cancer, made it clear that his first concern was the health and quality of life of his patients. But then he addressed what he characterized as the ''shortsighted'' economic rationale for the budget cut.
 ''It won't save money,'' he said. ''You don't save money by not diagnosing cancer early. You end up spending more money because anyone who develops cancer will get into the health care system and they will be treated. And the cost at that point will be a lot more. The logic here is very simple: the later you diagnose cancer of the breast or cervix, the more expensive it is to the country.''
 This is just one program in a range of cancer services that rely on support from the federal government. As if immune to the extent of human suffering involved, President Bush has proposed a barrage of cuts for these programs.
 ''What's really amazing,'' said Mr. Smith, ''is that the president cut every cancer program. He cut the colorectal cancer program. He cut research at the National Cancer Institute. He cut literally every one of our cancer-specific programs. It's incomprehensible.''
 A bipartisan movement is under way in the Senate to block the president's proposed cuts. How that ultimately will fare is unclear.
 What is clear is that cancer is a disease that horrifies most Americans, and with good reason. One out of every two men will contract the disease in his lifetime, and one out of every three women.
 This is an area in which we need to be doing more, not less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (89%); CERVICAL CANCER (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); MEDICAID (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); FAMILY PRACTICE (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); HEALTH CARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



434 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Takes On Craigslist in the Battle for Classified Ads

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
CRAIGSLIST has taken on many giants. Can it survive a challenge from Microsoft?
 The software behemoth late last month started Windows Live Expo (expo.live.com), another node in its growing network of Internet services, and a direct stab at Craiglist's vital organs: free, local classified ads.
In doing so, Microsoft is treading on ground that has swallowed many other companies, and one that Google has also recently begun to explore. But Microsoft is taking a more comprehensive approach than others, using its instant messaging, mapping and blogging services to help people sell items among groups of local friends and acquaintances.
 Craigslist has no such weapons in its arsenal, but it is expanding quickly from its San Francisco base into new markets, making it harder for competitors to generate enough classified listings to attract an audience. Whether it is establishing a defensible position quickly enough, though, is an open question. 
 ''It's going to be tough for anyone to compete with Craigslist in the Bay area,'' said Charlene Li, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''But I think it's still wide open in many other places.''
 At first glance, Expo looks like countless other Craigslist pretenders, with a list of categories on the home page, which users can localize by ZIP code or city. Users may also search for specific items. When users post new listings, they are asked to tag their listing by ZIP code, and they may also include their exact address for advertising garage sales or for listing real estate for sale or rent. Then, when prospective customers click on the ad, they can see a satellite image of the home.
 More important, perhaps, is the feature that allows Expo users to choose to view only listings from people in their MSN Messenger contact list or personal e-mail groups. MSN Messenger users will see a pulsating star next to the name of anyone on their list who has recently placed a new item for sale on Expo or made a new posting on MSN Spaces, Microsoft's popular blogging service. 
 With 205 million people signed up as Messenger users, and another 40 million users of MSN Spaces (and 100 million Spaces visitors in the last 16 months), the company already has a strong network of potential classifieds customers, said Garry Wiseman, Microsoft's product unit manager for Windows Live Expo. 
 ''I've seen some sites attempt to create these kinds of services, but they have to build it up, which takes forever,'' Mr. Wiseman said. ''We already had this massive network.''
 Mr. Wiseman said Microsoft would not charge for classified listings in the short term, but might charge businesses to post job or auto listings, as Craigslist does. He also said Microsoft was exploring a way to distribute the ads in print publications owned by other companies, and share in the revenue.
 Ms. Li, the Forrester analyst, said Microsoft was wise to use the array of services within Windows Live to help users sell goods and services more easily. ''It's a fantastic idea,'' she said. ''People love eBay so much because it's about community. Expo has the potential to have it, whereas classifieds don't have that soul.''
 Fans of Craigslist -- many of whom bare their most intimate thoughts on the site's discussion boards -- would disagree, and perhaps reel at the notion of Microsoft having more soul than their beloved, humble servant of a Web site, with its staff of 19. 
 Whatever the label, Microsoft may find that the wheels of commerce will roll more even quickly among people who are more closely connected than the like-minded strangers who congregate on Craigslist.
 Of course, Microsoft's idea has been tried before, back when Friendster was the future star du jour. Tribe.net, a social networking site, received backing from three major newspaper chains in 2003 on the logic that it might help them win back some of the classified advertising revenue that has migrated online in recent years.
 But social networking sites have so far failed to generate nearly as many classified advertising listings as Craigslist, analysts said, partly because users have seen those sites more as places to hook up for romance or friendship than for local commerce -- an area Craigslist has increasingly ruled in the last year.
 Just as eBay has built a sizable lead against competing services because it has exponentially more merchandise to offer, so too has Craigslist become a go-to site for anyone looking for housing and other products and services in markets like San Francisco and New York. Likewise, sellers now flock to the site in those markets because that's where the buyers are. 
 According to comScore Networks, an online consultant, 8.5 million people visited a Craigslist Web site in February, up from 3.7 million a year earlier. The closest competitor was the Trader Publishing Company, a Norfolk, Va.-based publisher of classified ad magazines and Web sites largely devoted to certain categories of goods, like boats, automobiles and luxury homes. Tribe, meanwhile, attracted 740,000 users. The stakes are high for the category winner. Forrester predicts that online classifieds will generate $3.1 billion in sales this year -- a 17 percent jump from last year -- and will reach $4.7 billion by 2010. Newspaper classifieds, by contrast, will reach about $15 billion, up just 5 percent from last year. 
 Craigslist, which is privately held, does not disclose revenue. Its growth has come from its expansion into new locations -- as of last week, it had 205 sites covering cities in every state, as well as cities in 35 foreign nations.
 Jim Buckmaster, the chief executive of Craigslist, said the company was concentrating more on starting multilingual sites than other features or services. 
 ''We can't match them resource for resource, even if we were so inclined,'' Mr. Buckmaster said of his competitors. ''But we don't try to match them in technology bells and whistles, since that's not the kind of thing our users request.''
 Craigslist has, Mr. Buckmaster said, sustained its growth rate despite Google's recent introduction of Base, which many people have used to post classified ads (Base's numbers, which Google would not disclose, are still small enough not to register on commonly used Internet statistics), and the introduction in foreign cities of classified sites by eBay's Kijiji unit. (Ebay own a 25 percent stake in Craigslist). ''The need for this kind of service is so vast that many companies can address it together,'' he said. ''I don't think it has to be a zero sum game.''
 Still, Mr. Buckmaster suggests he could be wrong. 
 ''Now at least we'll get to see whether our philosophy and way of running things is as important as we think it is,'' he said. ''Who knows? Maybe incremental technological bells and whistles mean a lot. But the experiment has begun.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Garry Wiseman, Microsoft's product unit manager for Windows Live Expo, a new competitor to Craigslist. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INSTANT MESSAGING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); SALES PROSPECTING (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (60%) Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Electronic Mail; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp; Craigslist

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



435 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Iraq Strategy Defended On War Anniversary
On the third anniversary of a war that they once expected to be over by now, President Bush and senior officials argued that their strategy was working despite escalating violence in Iraq, even as a former Iraqi prime minister once favored by the White House declared a civil war had already started. A1

Iraqi officials announced that they had agreed to form a council to make policy on security and economic issues in the new government, in an attempt to include all the country's major factions in the decision-making process at a time of rising sectarian tensions. 
 A10

Polio as an Unending Challenge
The drive against polio threatens to become a costly display of all that can conspire against even the most ambitious efforts to eliminate a disease: cultural suspicions, logistical nightmares, competition for resources from many other afflictions, and simple exhaustion. A1

French Unions Set Deadline
Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin of France faced an ultimatum from union leaders to withdraw the employment law that set off huge nationwide demonstrations and sporadic violence, or face a general strike. A11

Protests Against Belarus Vote
An expected landslide for President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko drew several thousand Belarussians into the streets, as protesters ignored swirling snow and official threats of arrest to denounce the election as a sham. A11

Hamas Submits Cabinet List
Hamas delivered its proposed cabinet list to the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, and is expected to control the most important government ministries after weeks of negotiations failed to persuade other Palestinian parties to join its government. A8

NATIONAL A14-19

Problems for Black Men More Dire, Studies Warn
The plight of black men in the United States is far more dire than is portrayed by common employment and education statistics, a flurry of new scholarly studies warn. And it has worsened in recent years even as an economic boom and welfare reforms have brought gains to black women and many other groups. A1

Louisiana Aid Reconsidered
The Bush administration originally rejected Louisiana's housing recovery plan. Soon after, Donald E. Powell, President Bush's Gulf Coast rebuilding coordinator, whose own idea of aid had excluded thousands of homeowners, many of them poor, announced that the president would seek $4.2 billion more for Louisiana to compensate homeowners. A1

Oil Spill Raises New Concerns
An oil spill this month in Alaska, the largest ever on the North Slope, has raised new concerns among state and federal regulators about whether BP, the subsidiary of the oil company that operates the corroded transmission pipeline from which more than 200,000 gallons of crude oil leaked, has been properly maintaining its aging network of wells, pumps and pipelines. A14

Protest Costs City $2 Million
A clash between the police and antiwar protesters in Oakland, Calif., nearly three years ago will cost the city more than $2 million, including dozens of payouts to people who were injured when officers fired wooden dowels, bean bags and rubber pellets. A14

Utilities Offer Site for Waste
A group of nuclear utilities planning to build a private nuclear waste dump on an Indian reservation in Utah has offered to sell space there to the federal government. The move could help the government avoid billions of dollars in potential legal damages over its failure to build its own repository. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

New Building Eats Up Envied Manhattan Views
Writers and editors at Conde Nast magazines and top lawyers at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom are dealing with a reality many Manhattan workers face: coming to terms with the construction of a new building, and the loss of their view. B1

Transit Chief Demands Vote
Roger Toussaint, the president of the transit workers' union, demanded that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority agree to a second vote on the proposed contract that his divided membership previously rejected by only seven votes. B5

Arrests at Antiwar Protests
The police arrested 17 demonstrators in Times Square on charges of disorderly conduct during a small antiwar protest that wound its way through Midtown. B7

SPORTSMONDAY D1-11

Upsets at N.C.A.A. Tourney
When George Mason defeated the defending national champion North Carolina Tar Heels, the upset capped four of the most harried days in the history of the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament. Ten teams knocked off competitors seeded at least five spots higher, tying a record set in 1986 and matched in 1990 and 2002. A1

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES A20-21

Bill Beutel
The journalist who helped bring about change in the nature of local television news as the dapper and unruffled anchor of ''Eyewitness News'' at WABC-TV in New York for more than 30 years, he was 75. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Major Enron Witness
The government will head into the stretch run of its case against two former Enron chief executives. Prosecutors will be looking to end on a flourish with the testimony of Ben F. Glisan Jr., the only former top executive who has already been sentenced in the Enron debacle. C1

Arguments on Patent Case
For the first time in a quarter-century, the Supreme Court will hear a case involving the basic question of what type of discoveries and inventions can be patented. Both sides say the case could have a wide-ranging impact on the development of diagnostics. C1

A Craigslist Challenger
Microsoft has introduced Windows Live Expo, another node in its growing network of Internet services, and a challenger to the heart of Craigslist: free, local classified ads. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The president and the courts; spreading genocide to Chad; the road to nowhere.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D12
Bridge E6
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL SPILLS (86%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (84%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); HAMAS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); LABOR UNIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (56%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELARUS (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



436 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 940 words

PERSON: George William Miller 

HEADLINE: G. William Miller, 81, Former Top Economic Official, Dies

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81.
 The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening and deterioration of the lungs, said Carol Juarer, his secretary at G. William Miller & Company in Washington. She said Mr. Miller was a nonsmoker who had been in good health all his life until the lung disease was diagnosed in June 2004.
A small, hard-driving Oklahoman with boundless energy, Mr. Miller was a Coast Guard officer, a lawyer and a corporate executive with a dazzling resume in business, government service, and the arts and humanities. 
 He was also a persistent advocate of equal employment opportunities for minorities. A recurrent theme of his speeches and conversations, colleagues said, was a warning against business profits at the expense of the environment and what he called human values.
 Early in his career, Mr. Miller helped build a moderate-size textile manufacturer into the giant aerospace conglomerate Textron, diversifying its reach from consumer goods to industrial equipment and aircraft, including Bell UH-1 helicopters, or Hueys, which were the workhorses of the Vietnam War. 
 But he is perhaps best known for his relatively brief service, less than three years, in the Carter administration. In an era of stagflation -- a stagnant economy and rising inflation -- Mr. Miller was the man in the box, using the puppeteer levers of interest rates and monetary policy in search of the delicate balance of dampering inflation without throwing the national economy into a catastrophic tailspin.
 As chairman of the Federal Reserve from March 1978 to August 1979, Mr. Miller pushed interest rates, though not enough to satisfy many of his critics. He also called for a national policy to reduce consumption of foreign oil, recommended cuts in government spending and taxation, and urged labor and management to moderate wage demands and price increases.
 Unlike his predecessor, Arthur F. Burns, who had tried to limit economic expansion in the belief that inflation was the far greater peril, Mr. Miller insisted that inflation and unemployment could be fought simultaneously.
 But the economy remained sluggish and inflation was not subdued, and Wall Street drubbed Mr. Miller as overly cautious, especially in slowing the growth of the nation's money supply. (His successor at the Fed, Paul A. Volcker, brought inflation under control by raising interest rates astronomically.)
 Mr. Miller retained the president's confidence, however, and in a cabinet shakeup on Aug. 6, 1979, he was named treasury secretary to succeed W. Michael Blumenthal. Over the next 17 months, until Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Miller was credited by many administration supporters and detractors with bringing order to an economic policy that had been prone to aimlessness and disarray.
 During his tenure, Mr. Miller also pushed through an accord with labor on wage-price guidelines that had been stalemated for months and negotiated $1.5 billion in loan guarantees that rescued the Chrysler Corporation from near bankruptcy and saved thousands of jobs. He also arranged the freezing -- and later the unfreezing -- of Iranian assets in United States custody during the Iranian hostage crisis, when 52 Americans at the United States Embassy in Tehran were held captive for 444 days. 
 ''Bill Miller had great skills in getting disparate parties together on the same page,'' said Steven L. Skancke, a former treasury official and a partner in G. William Miller & Company, the discreet, Swiss-style merchant bank in Washington that had been the focus of Mr. Miller's business interests since 1981.
 George William Miller was born on March 9, 1925, in Sapulpa, Okla., but grew up in Borger, Tex., where his parents hoped in vain to cash in on the discovery of oil in the Texas Panhandle.
 He graduated from the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn., in 1945, and spent the next four years as a line officer in the Pacific, mostly in Okinawa and Shanghai, where he met and married Ariadna Rogojarsky, a Russian emigre. The couple had no children.
 After graduating at the top of his law school class at the University of California, Berkeley, he joined the Wall Street firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore in 1952. But in 1956, he joined Textron, based in Providence, R.I., as an assistant secretary.
 Within four years he was president of the company, and over the next 18 years he turned it into a global enterprise with arms in aerospace, consumer goods and industrial equipment. 
 Mr. Miller never ran for political office, but he was enlisted by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, as well as by Mr. Carter, to lead efforts to attack unemployment, assist minorities and veterans, and fight inflation and a flagging economy. From 1963 to 1965, he was chairman of an advisory council to the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity.
 In 1968, he was chairman of a national business group's campaign for the Democratic ticket, Hubert H. Humphrey and Edmund S. Muskie. He was chairman and chief executive of Federated Stores from 1990 to 1992.
 He was also a director of many corporations and the Washington National Opera, a treasurer of the American Red Cross and a member of the National Council on the Humanities. 
 Besides his wife, Mr. Miller is survived by three sisters: Catherine Spiller and Myra Fowler, of Amarillo, Tex., and Mabel Wade, of Bedford, Va.; and two brothers, Othneil and Dee, both of Amarillo.


GRAPHIC: Photo: G. William Miller in 1979. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); SMOKING (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HELICOPTERS (67%); TEXTILE MFG (52%); VIETNAM WAR (51%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: MILLER & CO INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2435 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (72%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (72%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (78%) Robert D Mcfadden

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



437 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: German Coach and American Ways Are a Tough Match 

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: DUSSELDORF, Germany, March 19 

 BODY:
With the World Cup opening June 9, Germany is in a familiar panic as the host country, fearing that its coach is merely a ''Baywatch'' blond, more concerned with his tan lines than with the bottom line of winning a global soccer championship.
 Since Jurgen Klinsmann, a former star forward and captain of Germany's national team, became the coach in July 2004, he has continued to live half of each month in Southern California with his American wife and two young children. This transcontinental commuting has aroused three of Germany's favorite preoccupations -- soccer, the United States and the weather.
 A self-described cosmopolitan who speaks four languages, Klinsmann has hired an American trainer, as well as a sports psychologist, and has opened his roster to younger players. These reforms have unsettled the insular and conservative German soccer federation, which appears to want and fear change, said Oliver Bierhoff, the national team manager.
 Germany is split between those who embrace Klinsmann and those who vaguely fear an Americanization of German soccer, according to Andrei Markovits, a professor of German studies at the University of Michigan who has written about Klinsmann and anti-Americanism in Europe. 
 The United States is still considered a soccer upstart here. In the view of some soccer officials, journalists and politicians, whatever New World approaches Klinsmann has learned in America have little application for an Old World soccer power like Germany.
 ''It's a clash between the new and the old in Germany,'' Markovits said by telephone. ''There is a real cleavage between the left, liberal, urbane, youngish Germany that really likes him and the 'real' guys who go to the bar every night and think he's the worst because he's sort of an intellectual, he lives in L.A. and brings in American methods and married an American wife.''
 Particular dread set in March 1, when Italy routed Germany, 4-1, in an exhibition in Florence, Italy. Klinsmann was blamed for everything from poisoning German soccer to grinning too much to undermining the brittle economy.
 Speculation even arose that Klinsmann could be fired if Germany were to lose an exhibition to the United States on Wednesday in Dortmund. At the least, soccer officials fear that he will be booed for dropping a Dortmund-based defender, Christian Worns, from the national team. T-shirts exhorting ''You for us and we for you'' will be handed out to placate and rally the home fans.
 Criticism grew so intense by last week that Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, felt it necessary to deflate mounting pressure on Klinsmann. She declared that he was ''on the right track'' and urged him to ignore his critics.
 ''It's simply sad for a country that is going full speed to their biggest sporting event for the next 50 years,'' Klinsmann, 41, said here Sunday in an interview with a small group of international reporters.
 ''The World Cup is bigger than the Olympics,'' Klinsmann said. ''It's the biggest thing you can host. And it seems like we do everything possible to be far too skeptical, far too critical, instead of being happy and proud and honored that you have that competition.''
 German reporters were not invited to the interview. It infuriates Klinsmann that he is portrayed by some as a beach bum. Apart from pledging to spend most of his time in Germany as the World Cup approaches, he has defiantly said he will stick to his plans ''no matter where home is.''
 ''I take this job very seriously,'' he said, adding of the World Cup: ''If we win our first two games, everyone will try to jump on our train. But the train will have left already.'' 
 Those unhappy with Klinsmann were surely unmoved by the latest rankings from FIFA, soccer's world governing body, which put the United States fifth, the highest it has ever been, and Germany 22nd, the lowest it has been.
 ''I think there is a lack of respect for our soccer,'' said Bruce Arena, the American national team coach.
 The United States threatened Germany before losing, 1-0, in the quarterfinals of the 2002 World Cup. Yet Arena said he still sensed a competitive jealousy among traditional powers who felt threatened by the rise of teams from North America, Africa and Asia.
 Germany's obsession with the weather, which has been particularly cold this winter, might influence the dissatisfaction with Klinsmann, said Peter Zygowski, a language consultant at the Goethe Institute in San Francisco.
 ''They are completely obsessed with sunshine and the beach, and when they hear about Klinsmann in California, it conjures images of vacation, slacking off,'' Zygowski said by telephone.
 That was certainly not his image as a rapacious goal scorer. Klinsmann scored 47 goals in 108 appearances with the German national team. He played forward for the team that won the 1990 World Cup and was the captain of the squad that won the 1996 European championship.
 After a professional club career in Germany, Italy, France and England, Klinsmann retired in 1998 and settled in Huntington Beach, Calif., to work in sports marketing and consulting. He prefers the privacy afforded him in the United States, believing that anonymity abroad will allow his son and daughter to grow beyond his considerable sporting shadow.
 The United States, he said, also appealed to him for its ''let's go for it'' attitude. Many Germans seem pleased by the new attacking style Klinsmann has put in. There was widespread agreement that change was necessary after Germany's embarrassing exit in the first round of the 2004 European championships, only two years after reaching the final of the World Cup. (It lost to Brazil.
 National team coaches face constant second-guessing in soccer-consumed nations. But Klinsmann's management style has been especially provocative: spending half of each month in California, communicating with his players via e-mail and telephone, following their club matches on satellite television.
 He would do the same thing if he lived in Berlin or Rome, Klinsmann said. But to some soccer officials, ''e-mail and PowerPoint is an American way of doing things,'' said Bierhoff, who is Klinsmann's second in charge.
 ''Every proposal seems suspicious,'' Bierhoff said.
 Germany's recent exhibition loss to Italy unleashed an angry response. ''Disaster,'' proclaimed the soccer magazine Kicker. The Bild tabloid, Germany's largest daily and one that has been highly critical of Klinsmann, wrote, ''Mama Mia We Are Bad.'' The tabloid showed a picture of a grinning Klinsmann (''Grinsi Klinsi'') and added, ''With you, one can only cry about our national team.''
 Die Tageszeitung wrote that Klinsmann threatened the expected $9.5 billion economic windfall from the World Cup and sapped Germany of its anticipation and general optimism. ''Euphoria has been replaced by depression,'' the paper said, adding, ''At most, the gastronomy branch can hope that, out of desperation, the masses grab for the bottle.''
 After that defeat, Klinsmann returned to California on the anniversary of his father's death, missing a workshop for World Cup coaches. That prompted a rebuke from Germany's greatest soccer hero, Franz Beckenbauer, who led West Germany to the 1974 World Cup title as the captain and to the 1990 World Cup title as the coach.
 ''Time is running out,'' Beckenbauer, who is president of the 2006 World Cup organizing committee, told reporters.
 Stefan Effenberg, a former teammate of Klinsmann's, urged that he be fired immediately, saying, ''The rest of the world is laughing at us.''
 Some politicians even wanted Klinsmann censured before a sports subcommittee of the Bundestag, Germany's parliament, according to Markovits, the Michigan professor. ''That's like Larry Brown being cited before Congress for only bringing home a bronze from the Athens Olympics,'' Markovits said, referring to the Knicks' coach. ''Absurd.''
 In recent days, the criticism has subsided, with Chancellor Merkel supporting Klinsmann and saying: ''We should not destroy our justified joy of anticipation with all this negativity. Do not let yourself be deterred from your path.''
 Beckenbauer, too, offered encouragement, saying, ''There is no question that Germany can win the World Cup.'' But he also could not resist a dig at Klinsmann as they met in Berlin, telling reporters: ''It is fine that Jurgen will now stay in Germany. He has had enough of the sun.''
 The German team does not have the skill of Brazil or Argentina, and the tactical sophistication of Italy, Klinsmann acknowledged. But he also noted that his team would enjoy a tremendous home-field advantage in the World Cup. ''The truth will be on the field,'' he said.
 If Germany wins the World Cup on July 9, Klinsmann will again be a national icon. If things go badly, Markovits said a German journalist recently suggested to him that Klinsmann would become persona non grata in his home country.
 ''Maybe he could visit his parents, but he would be completely vilified,'' Markovits said. ''I would seriously worry about his safety if the Germans lose in the quarterfinals.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Coach Jurgen Klinsmann has split the country with his reforms and his style. (Photo by Carlo Ferraro/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. D1)
 A book about Coach Jurgen Klinsmann. His team's exhibition loss to Italy prompted Germany's chancellor to offer her support amid criticism. (Photo by Eckehard Schulz/Associated Press)(pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); CHILDREN (70%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Soccer; Coaches and Managers; World Cup

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%) Jere Longman; Jurgen Klinsmann

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



438 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Collecting; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Imperialism Rises Again In the Chrysler Empire

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
THE Imperial, Chrysler's on-again-off-again luxury flagship dating back to the 1920's, has already died more deaths than Lazarus and returned in more incarnations than Vishnu. Should it surprise anyone that DaimlerChrysler is once again trying to exhume the body and breathe new life into it?
 At the Detroit auto show in January, Chrysler unveiled a concept car -- a design study intended to elicit public reaction -- that hinted at a possible styling direction for a new Imperial. Even within the tight clique of Imperial flame-keepers, there was disagreement over the brash design. Some traditionalists were aghast at the car's proportions; others were charmed by its haughty presence.
''I would buy a new Imperial in a New York heartbeat,'' David Whitney, a collector in Burlingame, Calif., said in an e-mail message. ''First, because I am brand-loyal, and second, because it fits my definition of an American-made luxury sedan for the 21st century.'' 
 The Imperial earned its stature as a style-setter over relatively few years of production, the classics of 1926-33 and the ''modern era'' models of 1955-75. In the latter years, the Imperial became a separate make, rather than a level of the Chrysler brand, to place it on equal footing with competitors like Cadillac, Lincoln and Packard.
 Jeff Godshall, a Chrysler designer and historian, said that Imperials were personal favorites of company leaders from Walter P. Chrysler to Lee A. Iacocca. Of the prewar Imperials, Mr. Godshall said the 1931-33 models, with styling influenced by the Cord, were the most collectible. 
 ''Of all the Imperials, my own personal favorite is the 1955,'' Mr. Godshall said. ''These cars made everything else on the road look obsolete.'' 
 Marketers called the styling of the high-finned models of the mid-1950's the ''forward look.'' Imperials of 1957-61, designed by Virgil Exner, are the greatest cultural icons; they are considered design pinnacles of that era, with distinctive styling touches that included ''gunsight'' taillamps (inspired by the aiming devices of machine guns) and the outline of a spare tire cover pressed into the trunk lid, known to collectors as the ''toilet seat.'' 
 A 1957 convertible, perhaps the most flamboyant of the Exner designs, made headlines in January when it sold for $378,000 at the Barrett-Jackson classic car auction in Arizona. ''A world record, without question,'' said David Dubie, a Barrett-Jackson spokesman.
 The price got a boost, no doubt, from documentation indicating that the car had originally been bought by Howard Hughes. ''One-hundred thousand is a home run for most postwar Imperials,'' Mr. Dubie said. ''That's rarefied air, and attainable for only certain models, like convertibles or coupes.''
 For instance, four-door hardtops of the same vintage are, as Mr. Dubie indelicately put it, ''parts cars.''
 ''Many see the four-doors as parts cars,'' agreed Kenyon Wills, a volunteer webmaster for the Online Imperial Club (imperialclub.com). ''But if you spend much time around these cars, you'll find that the convertibles that everyone is nutty for are rather noisy with the top up.''
 And though the four-door hardtops do not command the top prices, they have other attractions, including clever scissor-action side windows in early models that open wide for air circulation. John Haynes, a realtor in Whittier, Calif., who has owned classics made by Cadillac and Graham, enjoys demonstrating the mechanical sideshow for onlookers -- and notes that his '56 is not so valuable that it cannot be driven regularly. 
 For a time, the revived Imperial line sold fairly well, establishing the brand as a viable competitor among luxury marques. But by 1961 -- when Exner's most over-the-top design had outrageous tailfins and headlights that floated from the body on stanchions -- the styling was falling from favor.
 Smitten by the slab-sided body of the 1961 Lincoln, Chrysler executives hired that car's designer, Elwood Engel, from Ford. For several years, Imperials became as bulky and blocky as parade floats. ''Both the 1964-66 Imperials and the fuselage Imperials of 1969-73 are in some ways collectible because of their sheer size,'' Mr. Godshall said. ''I personally think the 1967-68 cars were quite distinctive and attractive. Everything on these cars is real -- die-cast grilles and bezels, real chrome plating, elaborate nameplates and medallions, attention lavished on every nuance of the interior.'' 
 With sales of large cars struggling, Imperial survived only until 1975. Mr. Iacocca brought it back in 1981, but it lasted only two years before being killed again. Mr. Iacocca tried to revive the name again in 1990 with an overwrought body on a stretched version of the economy-class K-car platform. That undistinguished front-drive sedan sold poorly and was discontinued in 1993.
 Mr. Whitney, the eager customer for a future Imperial, was not offended by criticism that the concept car in Detroit was something of a Rolls-Royce impersonator.
 ''I was already infatuated with the stretch Phantom and its coach doors, which I saw at Pebble Beach,'' he said, referring to the annual upper-crust car salon outside Monterey, Calif. ''The only thing it's missing is a restyled eagle, the one consistent Imperial design element through the decades.''
 Others are much less enthusiastic. Virgil Exner Jr., a retired Ford designer and son of the man who styled the most memorable Imperials, said Chrysler's new taste for monolithic slab-sided styling, as seen in the Imperial concept car and today's 300 sedan, is an abomination.
 ''My father would turn over in his grave to see one,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''I understand the marketing approach, but believe that nearly all design integrity was lost. I could not believe that the same designers who did the Atlantic coupe and Chronos show cars a few years ago did the 300. Now comes the Imperial concept and it is simply ugly with no excuses!''
 Asked to respond, Trevor Creed, senior vice president for design of the Chrysler Group, said: ''Our design philosophy is that we develop vehicles that do not generate tepid responses. Not everyone is going to love a design, nor should they. It is the tension that exists between the love and hate of a design that keeps Chrysler Group from generating boring, cookie-cutter vehicles.''
 In Mr. Exner's opinion, Rolls-Royce styling is not worth emulating. ''I believe, as my father did, that any automobile should look like it moves and should exude elegant automotive sculpture to enhance its purpose,'' he said. It certainly should not look like a huge stone block rooted to the ground.''
 Mr. Wills, the webmaster, noted that the worldwide inventory of classic Imperials continues to shrink. ''History has not been kind to our car, as it was better and more robustly constructed than its competitors, yet made in far fewer numbers,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''A radiator location well behind the very stout and incredibly thick bumpers and frame rails made the older cars an absolute terror at demolition derbies nationwide.
 ''The combination of the 1973 gas shock, smog laws, and demolition derby folks have made our cars terribly scarce.'' 
 The Imperial name became a fading memory, at least until it showed up this year on a stage in Detroit.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Imperial's 1931 redesign borrowed Cord styling cues.
Imperial concept from Detroit auto show seems strongly influenced by Rolls-Royce.
In 1962, headlamps were mounted on pods. In 1955, taillamps perched on the fender.
The 1982 Imperial Frank Sinatra Edition.
Virgil Exner gave the 1957 convertible gunsight taillamps set on fins and a ''toilet seat'' faux spare tire on the trunk lid. (Photos by Jerry Garrett for The New York Times [1957 Imperial]
 DaimlerChrysler Archives [1931, 1962, 1955, 1982])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); HISTORY (76%); CONCEPT CARS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); AUCTIONS (67%); BRAND EQUITY (67%) Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) ARIZONA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



439 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Roots for Suozzi and His Slingshot

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
After a stormy political winter, New York Republicans are suddenly speaking to donors, party activists, and reporters about a candidate for governor who just might help their chances to win this fall. Oh, and did they mention he was a Democrat?
 The candidate, Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, is receiving a lot of Republican love these days because he is trying to do what the Republicans have failed to do over the last year: bloody the leading Democratic candidate for governor, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who sits atop a 50-point lead in the polls. 
Mr. Suozzi and Mr. Spitzer, two of New York's most alpha male politicians, will vie in the Democratic primary this September. Yet they have been maneuvering against each other for weeks, and last Monday they began a war of campaign commercials on television -- a surprisingly early move that is also surprisingly risky for an underdog like Mr. Suozzi, given that his ads cost more than $1 million of the $5 million he has in the bank.
 That Mr. Suozzi is competing aggressively against Mr. Spitzer, who has $19 million on hand, delights Republican Party leaders, who describe Mr. Suozzi as their proxy challenger to Mr. Spitzer for now.
 William F. Weld, one of three Republican candidates for governor, has been going to unusual lengths to talk up a man who is ostensibly a Democratic rival: He praised Mr. Suozzi last week at a news conference and to friends, and even invited Mr. Suozzi to hoist a pint to St. Patrick with him on Friday at an Upper East Side pub. Mr. Suozzi was campaigning elsewhere and declined.
 Mr. Weld, in an interview, said the Suozzi-Spitzer ad war may be helping his own fund-raising because donors are seeing a real fight for governor on television right now. 
 While Mr. Weld, a former Massachusetts governor and a New York native, is preoccupied with his own primary battle against former Assemblyman John Faso and former Secretary of State Randy Daniels, he went so far as to offer Mr. Suozzi some unsolicited advice.
 ''I see Spitzer as King George's army here,'' Mr. Weld said. ''What Suozzi has to do is pick off a few redcoats, grab a couple of muskets and arm a few militiamen, and then pick off a few more redcoats. He has to live off the land a little bit and get his numbers up through the media, and then use that to boost fund-raising.''
 It is too soon to tell if Mr. Suozzi's ad will help his poll numbers or fund-raising; Kim Devlin, his campaign manager, said fund-raising has been ''fantastic'' since Mr. Suozzi began his underdog bid in January, but she declined to provide numbers.
 Stephen J. Minarik III, the chairman of the State Republican Party, said the Suozzi ad was useful simply to show the media and voters that Mr. Spitzer may not have a cakewalk to the governor's office this year, as some New Yorkers have concluded.
 ''The voters are going to realize early on that there are some very credible alternatives to Spitzer,'' said Mr. Minarik, who supports Mr. Weld for governor. ''It starts with Suozzi, and continues to Bill Weld. Once Suozzi softens up Spitzer, Weld will walk in and take him out.''
 Rich Baum, a top adviser to Mr. Spitzer, said Republicans were foolish to pin hope on Mr. Suozzi. While he acknowledged that the primary challenge from Mr. Suozzi was not welcome, Mr. Baum said that Mr. Suozzi's commercials and strategy have not affected Mr. Spitzer. The Spitzer campaign was already planning to roll out two commercials, he said, and Mr. Spitzer is focusing on his own message, delivering a speech on economic development on Tuesday in Syracuse.
 ''The Republicans are so lamely wrapped up in their internal machinations, they're not talking about the issues facing New York,'' Mr. Baum said. ''Why aren't they out there giving speeches every day, trying to seize the moment? All they do is talk about politics.''
 An expensive, bloody battle between Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Suozzi is a main part of the Republican playbook to keep the governor's office on Election Day this November, with Gov. George E. Pataki stepping down after three terms. Republican leaders, for instance, were thrilled last week when aides to Mr. Suozzi charged that Mr. Spitzer had a role in a new lawsuit filed by the Nassau police union against Mr. Suozzi.
 The evidence of a Spitzer connection was mostly circumstantial; for instance, the union has donated $8,500 to Mr. Spitzer. Yet for Republicans, the move showed that Mr. Suozzi can play tough, swiftly and creatively -- traits that will be crucial for an underdog when the primary battle heats up this summer.
 Republicans are also counting on Mr. Suozzi's moderate politics to lead Mr. Spitzer to run as a liberal in the Democratic primary. Mr. Suozzi may lose with that centrist strategy, since many Democratic primary voters are liberals. But as long as Mr. Spitzer keeps championing abortion rights and gay marriage, as he has done this winter, Republicans will have grist in the general election to portray Mr. Spitzer as too liberal for voters in swing counties upstate and in the suburbs.
 Ms. Devlin, Mr. Suozzi's campaign manager, said Mr. Suozzi was running to win, not to do the Republicans' bidding. But she acknowledged that Mr. Suozzi and the Republicans shared a challenge: winning an uphill battle against Mr. Spitzer.
 ''I don't think our one commercial or our early strategy is going to change Tom's poll numbers overnight, or change the dynamic of the race overnight,'' Ms. Devlin said. ''What we are trying to do is send a clear message to New Yorkers that they have a real choice in this race, other than Eliot Spitzer.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Many see Thomas R. Suozzi, top, as a long shot to defeat Eliot Spitzer in the Democratic primary. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ed Betz/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MEN (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Patrick Healy; Thomas R Suozzi; Eliot L (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006



440 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Business Prepares for the Possibility of Avian Flu in the United States

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
The deadly strain of avian flu has not been found anywhere in the Western Hemisphere, but Mark Holden, a chicken grower for Tyson Foods in Ellijay, Ga., is not taking any chances. 
 Every seven weeks a group of his chickens is tested before the birds are sent to be slaughtered. All people who enter or leave the chicken houses must walk through disinfecting baths. And visitors and workers must wear plastic booties over their shoes.
''Even though we don't have any outbreak now, we want to take all the precautions we can to protect our product,'' said Mr. Holden, who has been in the chicken business for 10 years and lives across the street from one of his chicken houses. 
 Poultry producers and restaurants doubt that their chickens will be infected by avian flu or that people would catch the virus even if there were contamination. But they are concerned that if the virus gets to the United States, people will eat less chicken, simply out of fear. And they are revving up big plans to be prepared. 
 In Senate testimony earlier this month, Michael Leavitt, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, declared that it was ''just a matter of time'' before birds infected with the virus found their way to the United States.
 The stakes are enormous. United States poultry producers like Tyson, Pilgrim's Pride and Gold Kist sell 26 billion pounds of chicken each year. Restaurant chains -- chief among them McDonald's, KFC and Wendy's -- sell 45 percent of that.
 Sales of chicken are growing. Over the last 10 years, consumption of chicken has increased by 22 percent, while beef consumption has remained flat, according to the Department of Agriculture.
 If Europe and Asia are any indication, chicken sales could take quite a hit. In February, after avian flu was discovered in wild swans, poultry consumption declined 70 percent in Italy. In France, sales are down 30 percent since avian flu hit a turkey farm last month. In some areas of India, sales are down 40 percent since last month's discovery of avian flu in chickens. 
 These declines came even though none of the 175 human cases of avian flu confirmed by the World Health Organization since 2003 resulted from eating poultry. 
 Dick Thompson, a spokesman for the World Health Organization, said most of the cases of humans contracting avian flu have been from people coming into direct contact with infected poultry, though one case in Vietnam appears to have been a result of someone drinking infected duck blood. 
 Public health officials consider it unlikely that people will catch the virus from eating chicken. Chicken producers say that any sick birds would immediately be destroyed and would not enter the market. While the deadly strain of avian flu, called H5N1, now hitting Europe and Asia can reside in poultry meat, the virus is killed by the temperatures normally used to cook poultry. 
 Nonetheless, a Harvard School of Public Health nationwide telephone survey of 1,043 adults in January found that 46 percent of respondents who eat chicken said they would stop eating it if avian flu hit the United States poultry industry. 
 In October, Yum Brands, which owns KFC, told investors that, based on its experiences with avian flu in China, it estimated that in the worst situation, chicken sales would drop 10 percent to 20 percent if there were widespread concerns about avian flu. 
 Chicken processors and restaurant chains are already working feverishly to minimize any sales declines. Companies are working on communications strategies that can be set into motion at a moment's notice. These plans deal with avian flu in birds and not the feared hypothetical mutation of the virus into a human-to-human form. Future mutations could make avian flu contagious among humans, and possibly generate a pandemic.
 Tyson, Pilgrim's Pride, KFC, Chick-fil-A and Popeyes Chicken and Biscuits all say they have formed internal avian flu task forces that meet regularly and include top executives and leaders from different departments. These executives have been meeting with government health officials, discussing what information should go on the companies' Web sites and when, and devising sales loss projections. 
 Popeyes Chicken and Biscuits, the country's No. 3 chicken chain behind KFC and Chick-fil-A, said its task force met weekly, often in conjunction with the Ledlie Group, an Atlanta-based crisis management agency. KFC said that it had created TV and print ads aimed at convincing people that eating fully cooked chicken was safe. The ad campaign, which was produced by Creative Alliance, an agency in Louisville, Ky., where Yum Brands is based, is ready to go if a crisis strikes. 
 ''It's on the shelf collecting dust,'' said Jonathan Blum, a Yum spokesman. 
 Tyson, the country's largest chicken producer, is working on an ad campaign that will run if chicken sales decline, or if consumers start to get nervous.
 McDonald's, the country's largest restaurant buyer of chicken, said it had been working on avian flu contingency plans, but declined to discuss details.
 At many chain restaurants, including McDonald's, chicken has helped bolster sales more than any other menu item. In presentations to analysts and investors, McDonald's has credited its new line of higher-priced premium chicken sandwiches and its chicken-topped premium salads with increasing sales at outlets in the United States that have been open for more than a year. 
 Arby's, which is known for its roast beef sandwiches but gets 15 percent of its sales from chicken products, said it was spending more money than it had for any other new product to promote its new line of so-called chicken naturals. Chicken naturals are all chicken, with no added water or chemicals. 
 Some analysts think avian flu in birds, like mad cow disease in beef, may turn out to be a nonissue for consumers. Since mad cow was first discovered in the United States in late 2003, beef consumption has remained constant, according to the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. 
 ''In the U.S. I think we generally have a greater trust in the government to ensure food safety than they do in Europe and Asia,'' said John Glass, an analyst at CIBC World Markets. ''I'd be surprised if U.S. consumers really react to this.'' 
 But some in the chicken industry worry that avian flu will be much more frightening to consumers than mad cow. ''I get asked about it all the time,'' said Steve Gold, vice president for marketing at Murray's Chicken, a producer of humanely raised chicken. ''I think people have this idea that it's going to be like Alfred Hitchcock with all these birds flying into their community and everyone getting sick.'' 
 Mr. Gold notes that unlike mad cow, avian flu is highly contagious among birds and has the potential to travel long distances in unpredictable patterns.
 He and others in the chicken industry are busy honing a message that the nation's chicken populations are well protected from wild, migratory birds that may be the initial carriers of the disease. 
 A Web site set up by the National Chicken Council, the National Turkey Federation and the Egg Safety Center (www.avianinfluenzainfo.com) promotes the industry's modern system of enclosed, confined chicken growing as an effective line of defense against the spread of avian flu.
 The 20,000 to 24,000 birds that reside in a single growing house on the average industrial chicken farm lack access to the outdoors, or even to sunlight -- something that has long drawn criticism from animal welfare activists and has helped fuel the growth in free-range and humanely produced chicken. The virtue of isolating chickens, said Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the National Chicken Council, is that no chicken is likely to come into contact with wild birds that may be infected. 
 ''Things here are not like they are in Asia where chickens are running around outdoors in people's backyards,'' Mr. Lobb said. ''It's much more controlled.''
 He added that while thousands of free-roaming and backyard chickens were infected in Thailand in 2004, none of the country's large-scale, commercial chicken flocks in enclosed facilities were hit.
 Mr. Lobb said chickens sold as free-range or organic, meaning they are allowed access to the outdoors, may be more susceptible to avian flu transmission, but this group represents less than 1 percent of the chicken production.
 The Egg Safety Center said that consumers should not worry about eggs being infected with the avian flu virus because sick hens either stop laying eggs or lay poor-quality eggs that would not be acceptable for sale.
 Some government officials said that if avian flu arrived on United States shores, it would probably be from migratory birds.
 Susan Haseltine, assistant director for biology at the United States Geological Survey and an expert on bird migration, said government scientists had their eyes on the bird pathways from Asia to Alaska. ''One species with high potential is the pintail,'' Ms. Haseltine said. ''It migrates from Alaska to the southern U.S., to the Gulf Coast and Southern California. They have the ability to fly long distances.''
 The Department of Agriculture said that since 2000, 12,000 tests had been done on birds in western Alaska and none had been found with the deadly version of avian flu. Ms. Haseltine said there was little bird passage across the Atlantic from Europe.
 Other experts say that avian flu is more likely to reach the United States through the illicit trade of poultry from infected countries. Importing birds or poultry meat from countries that have had outbreaks of avian flu is banned, but Rob Fergus, science coordinator for the National Audubon Society, said there were probably instances of smuggled products. ''There are a lot of holes in biosecurity in our ports. I'm much more concerned about poultry shipments than wild birds," he said.
 There is, of course, still the small chance that North America may be somehow spared from avian flu. But companies like Chick-fil-A are not counting on that. ''The question is not if, but when,'' said Don Perry, a spokesman for Chick-fil-A. ''You can't put big nets in the sky to prevent birds from flying here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Holden raises chickens in Ellijay, Ga., and sells them to Tyson. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
An iodine solution sanitizes booties even though the deadly strain of avian flu has not been found anywhere in the Western Hemisphere.
 Brad Cole, a Tyson product manager, putting on disposable coverings before entering the chicken house at H&H Poultry in Ellijay, Ga. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Graph: ''A Taste for Chicken''Americans' appetite for chicken has more than doubled over the last three decades, to nearly 60 pounds per person a year on average.Graph tracks average consumption per person of Beef, Pork, Chicken, Turkey and Fish, Shellfish since 1970. (Source by U.S.D.A./Economic Research Service)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (94%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (93%); POULTRY (93%); CHICKEN FARMING (91%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BIRDS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MEATS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BEEF (70%); CONSUMPTION (69%) Influenza; Avian Influenza ; Poultry; Restaurants; Sales; Influenza; Tests and Testing; Labor; Influenza

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (58%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (54%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Tyson Foods Inc; Pilgrim's Pride Corp; Gold Kist; Mcdonald's Corp; Kfc Corp; Wendy's International Inc; Agriculture Department

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (58%); PPC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (54%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (54%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (54%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (52%) Mark Holden; Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (90%); VIET NAM (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



441 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting Sondheim's Odd Man Out

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, March 18 

 BODY:
A classic musical is reconfigured as a pop concerto for orchestra and single man in the latest reconsideration of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's ''Company'' at the Playhouse in the Park here. Modern marriage is presented as a bickering duet not just for prickly romantic partners but for musical instruments, too, in this sleek stylish production from director John Doyle in which the evening's 14 performers double as an onstage orchestra.
 This unusual concept isn't likely to stun New York theatergoers with its novelty. For Mr. Doyle's shattering production of Mr. Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's ''Sweeney Todd,'' staged in precisely the same manner, has already taken the theater season by storm. (The Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park's artistic director, Edward Stern, had invited Mr. Doyle to choose a show for his theater even before the Broadway version of ''Sweeney Todd'' had been confirmed.) 
But the new collaboration between this hot British director and the celebrated American composer and lyricist proves that the success of ''Sweeney'' was not a fluke. Mr. Doyle has admitted that his fresh method of renewing old musicals was initially born of economic considerations. This scintillating production of an earlier Sondheim musical, which stars a terrific Raul Esparza as the famously diffident, chronically single Bobby, affirms that necessity has indeed mothered a reusable tool for theatrical reinvention, not a quickly exhausted gimmick.
 If Mr. Doyle's ''Company'' is not the revelation that his ''Sweeney Todd'' unquestionably is, it is because of qualities in the material itself, not a failure of imagination. ''Sweeney Todd,'' despite its macabre subject matter, is a straightforward narrative musical, an old-fashioned comic melodrama that was distilled by Mr. Doyle into a stark, almost unbearably dark musical poem on the subject of blood-lust.
 ''Company,'' by contrast, was stark and stylized from the start. Originally directed by Harold Prince (as was ''Sweeney Todd''), it is a revue-like theatrical essay on emotional ambivalence, in which the actors double as a chorus commenting on the action -- or rather the inaction -- of the enigmatic Bobby, the central character his married friends are all ''sorry grateful'' to cherish for his single status.
 In Mr. Doyle's version, the performers simply add musical duties to their dual roles, playing instruments when they are not required to be either singing or trading barbed banter. This poses less of a challenge for the performers than it did in ''Sweeney Todd.'' In that musical, book and score are fully integrated; in ''Company,'' Mr. Furth's book scenes alternate with Mr. Sondheim's piercing songs about the tenuous satisfactions of romantic commitment. The new-model ''Company'' is thus more similar in sensibility to previous productions of this much-revisited musical than Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd'' is to its predecessors.
 Still, there are new insights to be harvested. To begin with, Mr. Doyle has succeeded, as not all directors do, in cleanly divorcing ''Company'' from the era in which it was written and set, the frazzled days of the late 1960's and early 70's, when the fissures in the American marriage were first being widely discussed.
 The show's look is clean-lined and contemporary. David Gallo's set is a polished wood square that evokes in sharp outline a Manhattan loft apartment of today. A baby grand piano, a trio of clear plastic ottomans, and a single Grecian column with a radiator as a skirt are the minimal furnishings. Ann Hould-Ward's costumes are contemporary, character-specific variations on basic black. The shadowy lighting by Thomas C. Hase is a symphony of spotlights, isolating and uniting the men and women of the musical as needed.
 Certainly the book by Mr. Furth still contains a few antiquely ''with it'' patches, but some minor updates, like a reference to Prozac, modestly help to disguise its date-stamp. (Interestingly, almost nothing in Mr. Sondheim's lyrics feels remote.)
 And Mr. Esparza, giving what may well be the richest and strongest performance of his career, remakes the challenging character of Bobby as a seductive, moody figure who might easily be found coolly sizing up the offerings at one of the oversize, overcrowded pan-Asian eateries frequented by single women who continue to cavort like the gals from ''Sex and the City.'' Bobby, eternally age 35, is, after all, a 35-year-old prototype of that show's ever-unavailable Mr. Big.
 Mr. Esparza inflects Bobby's wry considerations of his married friends' emotional dilemmas with slashes of dark humor slung straight at the audience, suggesting at times the mischief-making of Jon Stewart at his most deadpan. But his splendid singing throbs with an ardor that expresses the intense confusion under Bobby's veneer of semi-contented solitude. (This version concludes Act I with ''Marry Me a Little,'' cut from the original production.)
 Meanwhile, the new metaphor that Mr. Doyle's modus operandi brings to ''Company'' modestly amplifies the central themes of the musical. As they march along the stage's periphery or sit silently on stools at the side in cool contemplation, the married characters are making music with -- or at least at -- each other.
 In songs like ''The Little Things You Do Together'' and the second act opening medley of ''Side by Side'' and ''What Would We Do Without You?,'' the lively new orchestrations, by Mary-Mitchell Campbell, find the various couples communicating in musical notes, sometimes in happy harmony, sometimes in more complicated patterns. These wordless colloquies hint at the subterranean levels of congeniality that marriage can bring, which are articulated less regularly in Mr. Furth's often sour book. We are reminded that for many long-partnered pairs, speech is only the most public of many modes of communication, and it can be a misleading one.
 At other times Mr. Doyle's choreography wittily turns the musical instruments into physical embodiments of the characters' emotional baggage, or in the case of the flight attendant April (an intriguingly dry Elizabeth Stanley), actual baggage. At the end of the post-coital scene that includes the melancholy ''Barcelona,'' Ms. Stanley picks up the gleaming tuba that's been deposited on one of the ottomans and hoists it on her shoulder like a carry-on bag, soldiering forward with this lonely symbol on her arm. As Joanne, half-embalmed in booze and sophistication, Barbara Walsh adds musical accents to ''The Little Things'' by tapping the rim of her cocktail glass with a silver tong.
 Ms. Stanley and Mr. Esparza's delicate duet is a highlight of the production. Other standout sequences are the frenzied premarital jitters of Heather Laws's Amy, nicely tempered by the quiet compassion of Robert Cunningham's Paul, and the exuberant performance of ''Side by Side,'' with Bobby as the drum major of a marching band incongruously made up of smartly dressed urban sophisticates. Although few of the performers place a unique stamp on their sometimes sketchy roles, all are fine actors and singers and, more impressively, mobile and apparently hard-to-rattle musicians.
 Until he takes up a cymbal to add some percussion to ''Side by Side,'' Mr. Esparza's Bobby remains, pointedly, an onlooker rather than a participant in the making of the evening's music, vocalizing aside. When, in the show's waning moments, he sits down at last at the piano and plays the opening chords of the climactic ''Being Alive,'' Mr. Doyle's method helps massage a famously tricky transition, finding in Bobby's belated immersion in music a symbol for profound psychological change.
 Music is, after all, the medium in which the men and women in Mr. Sondheim's shows best express their complicated humanity. Bobby's unwillingness (or inability) to play a note, in the context of Mr. Doyle's production is a poignant comment on his stunted emotional state. How apt, then, and how moving, that his release into the rough waters of commited love should be accompanied by an attempt to translate the movements of the mind and heart into melody, harmony, rhythm. For Bobby, the door has been opened to an unforeseeable, possibly painful future, but also to states of sublime feeling that only music can describe.

Company

Music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim; book by George Furth; directed and choreographed by John Doyle; music supervisor/orchestrator, Mary-Mitchell Campbell; sets by David Gallo; costumes by Ann Hould-Ward; lighting by Thomas C. Hase; sound by Andrew Keister. Presented by the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park, Edward Stern, producing artistic director; Buzz Ward executive director. At the Robert S. Marx Theater, 962 Mount Adams Circle, Cincinnati; (513) 421-3888. Through April 14. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.

WITH: Keith Buterbaugh (Harry), Matt Castle (Peter), Robert Cunningham (Paul), Angel Desai (Marta), Raul Esparza (Bobby), Kelly Jeanne Grant (Kathy), Kristin Huffman (Sarah), Amy Justman (Susan), Heather Laws (Amy), Leenya Rideout (Jenny), Fred Rose (David), Bruce Sabath (Larry), Elizabeth Stanley (April) and Barbara Walsh (Joanne).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Actors double as an onstage orchestra in John Doyle's production of ''Company'' in Cincinnati, which stars Raul Esparza. (Photo by Sandy Underwood)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MARRIAGE (72%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Stephen Sondheim; George Firth; John Doyle; Raul Esparza

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



442 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RISKY BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: New Business Blooms in Iraq: Terror Insurance

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Hosham Hussein contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
Twice in the past year, Muhammad Said has survived assassination attempts that left his car riddled with bullets. He works part time as a bodyguard for his father, a Baghdad city councilman, and helps a friend who has contracts with the American military. Both are very dangerous jobs.
 So last month, Mr. Said, a slim, baby-faced 23-year-old, did what a small but growing number of Iraqis are doing: He walked into the offices of the Iraq Insurance Company and bought a terrorism insurance policy. It looked like an ordinary life insurance policy, but with a one-page rider adding coverage for ''the following dangers: 1) explosions caused by weapons of war and car bombs; 2) assassinations; 3) terrorist attacks.''
It cost him 125,000 dinars, about $90. Mr. Said paid more than most people because of his risky occupation. The payout, if he dies, is five million dinars, around $3,500, or about what an Iraqi policeman earns in a year. 
 That guarantee appears to be the first off-the-shelf terrorism policy in the world, insurance experts say. In most countries, of course, there is no need for it: death by terrorism is rare enough that it is usually covered by ordinary accident insurance. In Iraq it is not, partly because the state used to compensate the families of war victims directly. So the Iraq Insurance Company began stepping into the gap about a year ago.
 ''Am I worth only five million dinars?'' Mr. Said asked wearily, after signing his policy. ''It is not a solution. But Iraqis can be attacked by anyone, just walking on the street: Americans, insurgents, the Iraqi Army.'' The payout is not a lot of money, even by Iraqi standards. But in a country where terrorism kills hundreds of people a month and no one can rely on the government or employers to provide for their relatives afterward, it seems to be an idea with a future.
 The Iraq Insurance Company, a state-owned group, has sold about 200 individual terrorism policies in the last year, and is now negotiating with several government ministries and private companies for group policies that would cover thousands of employees.
 The idea of insuring ordinary people in what may be the most violent place on earth came from Abbas Shaheed al-Taiee, an executive at the Iraq Insurance Company. 
 ''It is a kind of gift to the Iraqi people,'' said Mr. Shaheed, 53, a big, heavyset man with terribly serious eyes and a reputation as a master salesman. ''We have expanded the principles of life insurance to cover everything that happens in Iraq.''
 Amazingly, the company has yet to pay out on a single claim. 
 ''We have sold policies in Dawra, Ramadi, Falluja,'' Mr. Shaheed said, naming some of the most dangerous places in Iraq. ''The contract is a good luck charm.'' 
 Mr. Shaheed (whose name means martyr in Arabic) emanates a gravitas that must be an asset in his line of work. He manages a sales staff of about 50 across Iraq, but also sells the policies himself, traveling from one workplace to another, like a kind of bureaucratic Grim Reaper. 
 He says the terrorism policy makes no distinctions between who fires the shots or detonates the bombs. He would be perfectly willing to insure an insurgent, though he has not done so to his knowledge, he said. 
 ''It is a market here; there are no differences,'' he said, in his grim baritone. ''We evaluate people's pockets.'' 
 In the United States and Europe, insurance companies offer customized policies to organizations sending employees to dangerous places, including Iraq (some news organizations, for example, insure their reporters this way). But those policies are highly tailored to each company's activities and risks, and they are generally expensive.
 The idea of a standardized, terrorism life insurance policy appears to be unprecedented, said Robert Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute in New York.
 Some other insurance experts agreed that the policy was a novel one, but said they would hardly call it a good deal. ''In an American context, it's very overpriced,'' said Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, an association of consumer rights groups. ''In America, you could probably get $100,000 worth of life insurance coverage for maybe $125 to $150,'' especially a healthy 23-year-old, he said. ''And that would cover you no matter how you died.''
 Selling insurance in Iraq has never been easy. The first insurance companies here were established in the 1950's, when they competed with Western companies. But the idea never gained wide acceptance, in part because some Islamic authorities disapprove of insurance, considering it akin to gambling. 
 Also, many Iraqis preferred to rely on their tribes or families in case of accidents or deaths. The state also played a powerful paternal role: during the Iran-Iraq war, for instance, the government generously compensated the families of soldiers who died, sometimes with a car or property as well as money. 
 After the Persian Gulf war in 1991 the market shrank further, because foreign reinsurance companies pulled out, forcing Iraqi companies to depend only on their own assets, said Aziz Hassan, a former deputy finance minister.
 Strangely, Iraqi insurance companies have done relatively well since the fall of Saddam Hussein, despite a stagnant economy and the uncertainty over Iraq's future. Six private insurance companies were founded in 2004, and now compete with the two state-owned companies. 
 The Iraq Insurance Company has renovated its offices -- they were looted and burned after the fall of Baghdad in April 2003 -- and the company now employs between 250 and 300 people. They have sold at least 2,700 life insurance policies since the fall of the Hussein government.
 In 2005, the company's net income was about $2.5 million at current exchange rates. ''We broke records,'' said Bassim Mahdi Saleh al-Sheikhli, the company's managing director. ''Business has never before been so good.'' 
 The company attributes much of its success to salesmen like Mr. Shaheed, who now operate more freely -- albeit more dangerously -- than they did in the past.
 ''From my point of view, sales is an art,'' said Mr. Shaheed, who has worked at the Iraq Insurance Company for 18 years. ''For instance, talking to a father with children is different from talking to a man still single. You have to bring out his passion to protect his family.''
 Because the salesmen carry money and travel, their own jobs are unusually dangerous. They do not carry guns. Many have bought terrorism insurance themselves, including Mr. Shaheed.
 One rule applies to all prospective clients. ''When we talk about death and risks, we refer to ourselves: 'I might die tomorrow,' '' Mr. Shaheed said. ''When we talk about the payment, we say, 'The company pays you.' '' 
 Once a client has agreed to buy a policy, a price is negotiated. It ranges from 60,000 dinars for the safer professions -- teachers, businessmen and the like -- to 125,000 for policemen and translators for Western companies. The payout is the same regardless.
 On a recent afternoon, Mr. Shaheed sat at a desk in his second-floor office, chatting quietly with a potential client. Nearby on the couch sat Basmel Nafaa, a 48-year-old businessman with a bald head and an impish grin. Mr. Nafaa had already bought an ordinary life insurance policy, and was considering buying terrorism coverage too. 
 ''He's the best we have here in Iraq,'' Mr. Nafaa said of Mr. Shaheed. ''He's a good hunter.''
 Mr. Nafaa recounted how Mr. Shaheed had approached him at the wholesale market where he often works, as if by chance. The salesman chatted amiably about mutual friends, and then began telling a story about a man who had died without leaving anything for his wife and children. Before long, Mr. Nafaa was sold. 
 ''He hardly even needs to remind you of the dangers you face,'' Mr. Nafaa said. ''We see it everywhere.'' 
 Mr. Nafaa began offering examples. A few months earlier, his 12-year-old son Joseph was standing outside the family home waiting for a school bus that never came. The boy persuaded his mother to give him money for a taxi. Minutes later, he said, a suicide bomber in a car exploded right next to the bus stop, which is across from the home of a high-level government official. Six people were killed.
 Mr. Nafaa showed photographs of his house, which was badly damaged. ''I had no insurance at that time,'' he said.
 Then Mr. Nafaa gestured across the room at his cousin, Baseem Makadsi -- the other prospective client -- who still has a crease on the back of his skull from where a bullet crashed through the window of his car and grazed him while he was driving to the market with his son. 
 ''If he had not leaned over to speak to his son, he would be dead,'' Mr. Nafaa said. ''He lost a lot of blood.'' 
 Mr. Makadsi was not yet sold on terrorism insurance. He was thinking of taking his family out of Iraq.
 But Mr. Nafaa persuaded himself. ''I will buy it,'' he said. ''There is a big probability to be killed by insurgents here. Higher than anywhere else in the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abbas Shaheed al-Taiee, an executive at the state-owned Iraq Insurance Company, counting money a client paid for terrorism insurance. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (75%) Terrorism; Life Insurance; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: Iraq Insurance Co

PERSON: Robert F Worth; Abbas Shaheed al-Taiee

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) EARTH (55%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



443 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Airline Workers Are Left at Gate, Mourning a Perk

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
Through deep pay cuts, shrunken pensions and longer hours, airline employees who survived the endless rounds of layoffs knew they could still count on one thing: free flights. But that perk, a touch of jet-setting glamour in an increasingly dreary line of work, is now much harder to use because so many flights are full.
 ''This system is now just ripping at the seams,'' said Patricia Haddon, an American Airlines flight attendant for 29 years who often enjoyed flying in first class. ''We all came to work here because we value the benefit. We are middle-class people but this allows us to have upper-class experiences.''
Airline employees and many of their family members can fly standby, taking unsold seats. But after post-9/11 problems prompted airlines to reduce the size of their fleets, a strong economy has revived demand for business and leisure travel. 
 Planes now fly on average with only about 22 percent of seats unsold. While that still sounds like a lot, quite a few are on unpopular routes or at inconvenient times. Many popular routes in prime hours are packed.
 Thus, nonrevenue flying, as the benefit is known, is increasingly competitive. ''It's really not quite the benefit it used to be,'' Chris Bagley, a Web site developer for Delta Air Lines, said.
 Adding a bit of insult to injury, airline employees more frequently end up in coach seats on domestic flights, a grim prospect for many of them. That is because first-class cabins are full of frequent fliers who have been upgraded from coach and business travelers actually paying recently reduced first-class fares.
 And employees are not alone in the scramble: travelers using frequent-flier miles often find themselves struggling to find seats.
 Employees recognize that the more crowded flights are good for business. ''That's what pays my salary,'' said Liz Mitchell, an American Airlines flight attendant for 25 years.
 But Ms. Mitchell, who lives in Dallas, had to use some of that salary to buy airline tickets for herself and her boyfriend to attend a Caribbean wedding in November and a graduation last spring in Memphis. ''I haven't non-rev'ed in a long time,'' she said.
 The popularity of employee flight benefits contributes to the logjam at the gate, with retirees, families and some friends also eligible. Airlines report as many as five people are eligible for free travel for each active employee. With about 400,000 currently working for domestic airlines, that suggests a population approaching two million scrambling for a dwindling number of seats. 
 Still, for indiscriminate travelers willing to go almost anywhere at a moment's notice, the free flights remain a great benefit. B. J. and Tony Morris, both computer programmers using employee travel benefits from Delta, say they have racked up 2.3 million miles of air travel since 1983 on more than 450 trips. At full price, they estimate that the flights would have cost them $1.7 million. Their actual cost in fees and taxes was about $14,000, or $31 a trip.
 ''It makes us more interesting people, if nothing else,'' Mr. Morris, 53, said. Childless and petless, they regularly head to Atlanta's airport with a half-dozen foreign cities in mind and hop aboard the first flight with available seats -- preferably in first or business class.
 Airlines have also issued millions of one-time buddy passes that workers can hand out to friends for free travel. And as carriers have sold or spun off non-airline operations, employees in those businesses often retain travel benefits. B. J. Morris, for example, left Delta in 1995 and now works for Worldspan, a technology company that serves airlines. She retains full Delta travel benefits.
 As available seats have declined, workers have paid more attention to how the line forms to fill them. American and Southwest employees board on a first-come-first-served basis. Delta and United employees board by seniority. Each method produces resentment.
 US Airways, seniority-based, merged last year with America West Airlines, which was first come first served. The combined company, known as US Airways, has gone through an internal debate on which approach to adopt. The e-mail address for workers' comments suggests the scraps they are fighting over: row23middle@usairways.com.
 Emotions are running high, with more than 7,500 e-mail messages so far. ''Picture me at my age (old) with 32 years of dedicated service,'' a seniority advocate wrote, ''running down the concourse trying to beat that new hire with barely six months on the payroll. Well, I guess he won, beating me and my wife (who just had her left hip replaced).''
 An advocate of the first-come-first-served approach responded: ''Many times over the years I have been sitting in the boarding area 60-90 minutes before departure, only to be bumped by a 'senior' employee with his wife and four children, who showed up 15 minutes before departure.''
 W. Douglas Parker, chief executive of US Airways, is in no hurry to make a decision. He is asking employees to board former US Airways flights by seniority and former America West flights first come first served -- to experience the difference -- and is hoping that everyone calms down by the end of the year.
 ''We're taking it very seriously,'' he said. Flight benefits ''loom large in our ability to attract and retain employees.''
 A sympathetic worker e-mailed this message to the boss: ''Avoiding a tar & feather during the process will be miraculous.''
 Whatever their stance on that debate, most airline employees would certainly agree with Mr. Morris, the computer programmer, about the benefits of the travel perk. Faced with a 25 percent pay cut at Delta a few years ago, he said he and his wife ''sat down over a pizza one night and decided what's important to us: flying free.'' He stayed at Delta until Aug. 1, 2004, ''the first day I was eligible for retirement with unlimited pass benefits.'' He now works part time elsewhere.
 Mrs. Morris, 47, keeps a record of their travel at www.bjandtony.com, which helps explain why many workers stay on at airlines despite their troubles. They flew in 1987 to St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands to shop for an engagement ring, finding the diamond solitaire she still wears. Mr. Morris once took an overnight trip to shop for gnome figurines in Ireland.
 They often fly together, but not always. Mrs. Morris would rather try a new place than revisit a city. Mr. Morris says he thinks he wants to retire to Ireland, a frequent destination. ''I'm not convinced,'' Mrs. Morris said.
 One thing, Mr. Morris said, they completely agree: ''Why would you work for an airline if you didn't fly?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: B. J. and Tony Morris of Smyrna, Ga., are no longer working with Delta but have kept their travel benefits. (Photo by Robin Nelson for The New York Times)(pg. C10)Chart/Map: ''An Extreme Example Of a Hop-Aboard Life''Using Delta employee travel benefits, B.J. and Tony Morris have taken more than 450 trips since 1983, keeping data on all 2,307,502 miles. The couple, whose travel habits are unusual, consider flying free to be an essential benefit for airline employees.Map highlights the routes ''more'' and ''less'' traveled by the Morrises.Dec. 21, 1993Flight to Little Rock, Ark. to see a house with two million Christmas lightsApril 19, 1994Flight to Pensacola, Fla. to cash in a lottery ticket worth $12.50May 3-6, 2001Flight to Frankfurt to scout bike rental places for a June tripMay 29, 2004Flight to Boston to go whale watchingFeb. 24-26, 2005Flight to Dublin to find a gnome figurine seen on a previous tripFULL PRICE OF TRIPS: $1,681,219COST TO THE MORRISES: $14,039(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (97%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); CHRISTMAS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (67%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Fringe Benefits; Labor; Airlines and Airplanes; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (59%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



444 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Speaking to Tehran, With One Voice

BYLINE: By Jessica T. Mathews. 
Jessica T. Mathews is the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WITH the Iranian nuclear crisis about to land in the Security Council, the events that led up to the war in Iraq point clearly to what needs to be done.
 In the decade preceding the Iraq war, Mr. Hussein was able to defy the major powers when they were divided. Exploiting his advantage as a single actor and Washington's indecision over whether it most wanted nonproliferation or regime change, Mr. Hussein consistently outmaneuvered his diplomatic opponents.
But he also knew that he could not buck the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council when they were serious and united (as, for example, during the toughened United Nations inspections in the months just before the war), and he did not even try. 
 The situation with Iran today is the same. Washington cannot decide whether the top priority of its Iran policy should be regime change or nonproliferation; as a result, others of the major powers do not trust and will not fully support its antinuclear efforts. Tehran has easily exploited this lack of unity among the major powers to frustrate every attempt to rein in its nuclear program. It has recruited international support through energetic diplomacy to the group of developing countries known as the G-77. Just as Mr. Hussein did, the leaders in Tehran have made diplomatic mincemeat of the big powers.
 Iran has been so successful in this that some experts in the West have turned defeatist. Their view is mistaken. The idea that ''it's too late'' to stop Iran's progress toward building nuclear weapons is technologically wrong. ''There's nothing we can do about it'' ignores a range of options between economic sanctions, going to war and more of doing nothing. And the argument that ''we can learn to live with it'' misses the nature of the challenge.
 A nuclear Iran is dangerous enough, but this crisis is only proximately about Iran. More important, it is about the likely consequence of an Iranian bomb, namely, that Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt would produce their own bombs, and, thanks to the concomitant international failure to deal with North Korea, the nonproliferation regime would collapse. What is at stake is not a choice between 9 and 10 nuclear weapons states, but a choice between 9 and 30 or more.
 The major powers may yet be able to unite to stop Iran at this late hour, but not without a decisive change in American policy. Washington's choice is simple: does it want to stop Iran's acquisition of nuclear weapons badly enough to deal with Iran's present government? 
 Like the Clinton administration with Iraq, the Bush administration has been unable to make up its mind, locking its policy into a cycle of self-defeating half-steps. The combination of ''axis of evil'' threats, partial support of European negotiations and publicly announced financial backing for the opposition in Iran ensures only that we will fail either to negotiate an end to the nuclear program or to overthrow the present regime. 
 The administration must, finally, hold its nose and recognize that the nuclear challenge is the indisputable priority. It must get off the sidelines and into negotiations with Tehran. It must solidify agreement among its fellow permanent council members by working closely with Russia, not least by concluding a long overdue pact on civil nuclear cooperation. Russian participation would make it possible to provide Iran with a credible international guarantee of uranium enrichment and reprocessing services. 
 With China and the others, the United States needs to make clear that the Security Council can resort to other steps besides economic sanctions to significantly raise the cost to Tehran of its continued defiance, beginning with making International Atomic Energy Agency inspections mandatory rather than voluntary. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice (and her fellow foreign ministers from the council's permanent members) should be flying to Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa and other leading countries of the G-77 to explain why Iran is wrong to claim that the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty gives it the ''right'' to enrich uranium, and why Iran's abuse of the treaty devalues each of their commitments to give up nuclear weapons. 
 Given the American record with Iraq and Iran, others will be skeptical that Washington has made a clear choice for nonproliferation and away from regime change. The message will have to be steady and unequivocal. If President Bush and Secretary Rice continue to say one thing and Vice President Dick Cheney and our ambassador to the United Nations, John R. Bolton, say another, the effort will quickly fail.
 Members of Congress have a direct responsibility as well. Only they -- especially the Democrats -- can make such a policy change possible. They will have to forgo the indulgence of slamming the administration from the right and currying favor with pro-Israel voters by vying to see who can be the most anti-Iranian. 
 All of this, and more, is what serious anti-nuclear diplomacy would look like. It has not yet been tried. Anyone who promotes the use of military force from the present position of American indecision and before the obvious political steps have been taken is repeating the error that led us into Iraq. 
 The international community's record on Iran's nuclear program (as on North Korea's) has been feckless. Only the United States can change that. If we fail to pursue this effort with unwavering, clear-minded diplomacy, a nuclear-armed world will be the Bush administration's chief legacy, no matter how the war in Iraq and the war on terrorism turn out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); GROUP OF SEVENTY SEVEN (G77) (55%)

PERSON: Jessica T Mathews

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN (92%); TURKEY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EGYPT (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



445 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Israel Briefly Reopens a Gaza Crossing to Send In Food

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 20 

 BODY:
Israel reopened the main freight crossing to the Gaza Strip on Monday to allow delivery of flour and sugar to the Palestinians. But it abruptly closed the crossing after just a half-hour, citing security threats. 
 Israel has kept the Karni Crossing shut for most of the past two months, saying it has intelligence that Palestinians are planning to attack the goods terminal, which has often been a target.
But with Gaza's food stocks running low, the United States ambassador to Israel, Richard H. Jones, arranged for talks between the Israelis and the Palestinians on Sunday night, and Israel agreed to allow food supplies into Gaza on Monday.
 ''The shortage of basic foodstuffs was weighed against the terror threat, and the logical decision to open it for a limited amount of time was made with the hope the Palestinians will uphold their commitments,'' Amos Gilad, a Defense Ministry official, told Israel Radio.
 But shortly after he spoke, Karni was again closed. The military said there were security alerts, but did not provide details.
 Salim Abu Safiya, who handles border crossing issues for the Palestinians in Gaza, told Reuters, ''The Israelis need to stop using this silly method and these silly alerts.''
 During the brief period Karni was open, only a few trucks from Israel managed to unload their goods for delivery into Gaza. The Palestinians were not permitted to move their products in the other direction. The Palestinian exports, mostly fruits, vegetables and flowers, have been rotting during the long closing.
 When Israel shut Karni for three weeks beginning in mid-January, the military said it had information that Palestinians were digging a tunnel to attack Karni. The Palestinians say they have searched for tunnels but have not found any.
 Gaza's economy is hugely dependent on the crossing for all its imports and exports. The Palestinians have not been permitted to build a port, reopen the Gaza airport or trade directly with Egypt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (86%); TERRORISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (64%) United States International Relations; Palestinians; Terrorism

PERSON: Greg Myre; Richard H (Amb) Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



446 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: The World Watches As Genocide Unfolds

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Silence of Bystanders'' (column, March 19):
 I am grateful for Nicholas D. Kristof's persistence in calling attention to the terrible violence in Darfur and the passivity of the United States. 
 With rare exceptions, the international community has remained passive in the face of mass killing and genocide.
 Nations are often not just passive bystanders but are complicit, as they continue with business as usual. This makes perpetrators believe that what they are doing is at least accepted and possibly approved by others; nations may even provide economic or military assistance to perpetrators. 
 This passivity and complicity are not going to change without actions by governments as well as the United Nations to prevent mass violence and to halt it once it has started.
 Governments will become more likely to act only when individuals with power and influence within governments and international organizations have the responsibility to gather information about the danger of violence against groups in various countries and to start preventive action. 
 Without that, governments will act only in rare instances, led by national interest and the whim of high-level officials, or only after much violence, leading to pressure from citizens.

Ervin Staub
Holyoke, Mass., March 19, 2006

The writer, a professor of psychology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, is the author of a book about genocide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); APPROVALS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



447 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Calls Belarus Vote for Leader Invalid 

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from Minsk for this article, and Joel Brinkley from Washington.

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, March 20 

 BODY:
The United States declared the results of the president election in Belarus invalid on Monday and called for a new race, even as President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko defiantly swept aside criticism and declared himself the winner of a third term. 
 In an impassioned appearance hours after state television announced that he had won nearly 83 percent of the vote, Mr. Lukashenko exuded confidence and said the outcome had ''convincingly demonstrated who the Belarussians are and who is the master of our house.'' 
He said he was unafraid of further economic and political isolation after an election that Washington and international observers described as illegitimate, rigged and held under widespread repression. 
 ''The United States does not accept the results of the election,'' said Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman. ''We support the call for a new election.'' 
 The principal opposition candidate, Aleksandr Milinkevich, who received 6 percent of the vote, according to the government's initial count, also declared Mr. Lukashenko's presidency illegitimate. 
 ''We are simply not going to recognize the election,'' he said, calling for a new vote to be conducted with new election commissioners and a campaign free of arrests and harassment.
 Several thousand opposition demonstrators once again ignored warnings that they could be arrested or beaten, and returned in the evening to a central square in Minsk to continue peaceful protests against the results. 
 But the crowd that appeared Monday was smaller than that on Sunday, and Mr. Milinkevich's campaign manager, Sergei Kalyakin, acknowledged the difficulties of challenging the deeply entrenched power of Mr. Lukashenko, often referred to as Europe's last dictator. ''The number who came to the square was not enough,'' he said. ''We need 10 times more.''
 By late Monday the number of protesters dwindled to several hundred, but those who remained appeared determined to stay, pitching tents and locking arms around them. For a second night the police refrained from dispersing them, but blocked others from bringing food, clothing or blankets.
 Many in the crowd, and even Mr. Milinkevich himself, said they were disappointed that they had not been able to rally more people. He said they would stay through the night if allowed, but hinted at a concession. ''I think that the dictatorship will fall, not on the day of elections,'' he said on the edge of the crowd. ''I can't say when, but I feel its days are coming to an end.''
 Unsure that it can muster and maintain large crowds in the face of official threats, the opposition here has rested much of its diminishing hope on international disapproval. 
 Reaction has broken along familiar lines, with Western organizations and officials issuing condemnations and in some cases vowing to seek punitive measures against Belarus, and Russia and other former Soviet states celebrating Mr. Lukashenko's victory.
 Echoing the Bush administration, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which brought 400 observers here, sharply criticized the election, noting harassment and arrests of opposition candidates, propagandistic coverage on state media and extensive irregularities in the counting of ballots. 
 ''The arbitrary abuse of state power, obviously designed to protect the incumbent president, went far beyond acceptable practice,'' the report said. 
 Senior Bush administration officials said the United States would work with Europe to coordinate sanctions, like travel bans against those in the Belarus government believed to be responsible for the voting process. But American officials noted that they had numerous sanctions of this type in place.
 Even as the European group issued its report, Mr. Lukashenko was several blocks away in a government auditorium, gruffly and at times crudely sweeping aside any questions about his victory or his leadership style. 
 The appearance was part news conference and part testimonial to Mr. Lukashenko's power, as the audience was stacked with his supporters and hand-picked visitors who described themselves as election observers. One pair of these self-described observers presented Mr. Lukashenko with a bouquet of roses.
 Between statements of praise and bursts of applause, Mr. Lukashenko belittled the opposition's supporters as ''children'' paid by foreign governments, and described their demonstration on Sunday night as a display of weakness. ''They were 14- and 15-year-old children who were paid 20,000 Belarussian rubles,'' he said, referring to a sum worth a little more than $9. ''So they worked for their 20,000 rubles.''
 He also took questions from journalists, sometimes appearing to enjoy testy exchanges and other times interrupting speakers or arguing about their questions.
 When asked whether he could assure the safety of demonstrators, whom he threatened last week with having their necks wrung, he chided the journalist for posing the question. ''I see your neck is in place,'' he said. ''Why are you so concerned?''
 As his appearance dragged on, reaching nearly two and a half hours, more denunciations appeared from the West. 
 Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, secretary general of NATO, said in a statement that Belarussians had been cheated of a choice. ''The people of Belarus have the right to choose their leadership through a true democratic process,'' he said. ''That right was again denied to them.'' 
 Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik of Austria, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, criticized the ''climate of intimidation'' that hindered the opposition campaign. 
 Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the union's commissioner of external relations, said the group would continue with democracy-building programs and relief aid and would not impose economic sanctions because that could hurt the Belarussian people. But she said European Union members were likely to widen a visa ban on top Belarussian officials. 
 In Moscow, underscoring the widening gap between the West and Russia over the conduct of elections and the state of reform in former Soviet republics, the Kremlin rushed to applaud the result. The Foreign Ministry said, ''The elections were testament to a high civic awareness and an interest amongst the Belarussian people for stability.'' 
 The statement made no mention of the mass arrests, wide-scale intimidation and the fawning official media coverage of Mr. Lukashenko and his policies.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A note yesterday with an article about international reaction to the presidential election results in Belarus misstated the whereabouts of a contributing reporter, Dan Bilefsky. He was in Brussels, not Minsk.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a vast screen in downtown Minsk, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko broadcast a more than two-hour victory rally. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); ARRESTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); RIOTS (66%) Politics and Government; Elections; Frauds and Swindling; Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: C J Chivers; Steven Lee Myers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Aleksandr Milinkevich

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) Belarus; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



448 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GIUSTI, DR. GINO

 BODY:
 GIUSTI--Dr. Gino Husband, father, grandfather, executive, leader and friend, passed away on March 18, 2006 from complications due to cancer. He was 78. Born in New Kensington, Pennsylva nia on May 31, 1927 to the late Peter and Rose Giusti, Dr. 
Giusti attended the University of Pittsburgh where he earned a BS in Chemical Engineering in 1949, a Master's in Chemical Engineering in 1953 and a PhD in Economics and Business Administration in 1959. Dr. Giusti became affiliated with Texasgulf, a diversified natural resource com pany, in 1948 when he was awarded a research fellowship at the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research. He retired as President and Chief Executive Officer in 1989, after 41 years with the firm. While he had a long, successful business career, the love of his life was his wife and family. He married Ruth Greblunas in May, 1957 and together they raised five children in Stamford, Connecticut. Dr. Giusti was a devoted husband and took loving care of his wife, who fought her own illness, until she passed away on April 29, 2003. Dr. Giusti is survived by his sister, Jean DeValeria and her husband Herman, of Indianapolis, IN, and five children--Paul Giusti and his wife Kathy of New Canaan, CT, Dr. Susan Bristol and her husband David of New Hill, NC, Patricia Meiburg of Gahanna, OH, John Giusti and his wife Lisa of Hopkinton, MA. and Christopher Giusti and his wife Sarah of Herndon, VA. He also leaves ten grandchildren and innumerable friends. Friends may call on the family from 4:00 PM to 8:00 PM on Wednesday, March 22, 2006 at the Nicholas F. Cognetta Funeral Home, 104 Myrtle Avenue, Stamford, Connecticut 06902. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be sent to The Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, 51 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT. 06840. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); FAMILY (76%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (76%); BLOOD DISORDERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (77%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



449 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Appeals Court Reverses Conviction Of Former Investment Banker
A federals appeals court overturned the conviction of Frank P. Quattrone, the investment banker who rose to prominence in the 1990's technology boom, on obstruction of justice charges, and granted him a new trial. The ruling, a rare reversal of a jury verdict, is a big setback for the government, which had sought to portray Mr. Quattrone as a symbol of Wall Street's excesses during the boom years. [Page A1.] 


Panel Faults Guidant on Heart Device Safety
An expert panel commissioned by Guidant to review its handling of heart device flaws said that the company had systematically failed to fully assess patient safety in deciding whether to publicize product failures. [C1.]

Microsoft Outlines Internet Software Strategy
Microsoft faces a potent challenge as software is increasingly built and distributed as a service on the Internet. The company yesterday offered the most detailed glimpse to date of its strategic response: embrace the Internet software model, add its own offerings, and link the new technology to the coming version of its Windows Vista operating system. Speaking of his company's plan, Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman said: ''We will definitely have a comprehensive model. And there will be an integration benefit.'' [C4.]

Google is introducing a financial information service intended to compete directly with offerings from Microsoft, Yahoo and others. [C5.]

Oracle Reports 42% Increase in Profit for Quarter
The Oracle Corporation reported a 42 percent increase in quarterly profit, but growth in its flagship database business was softer than expected. [C4.]

Effects of Delphi Bankruptcy Spread Across Industry
A bankruptcy filing by Delphi has engulfed General Motors, the United Automobile Workers and has splashed over other auto parts suppliers that have followed it into Chapter 11. Market Place. [C1.]

New Fed Chairman Stresses Global Economics
Ben S. Bernanke, the newly installed Federal Reserve chairman, suggested that the central bank would need to pay more attention to global financial conditions in setting interest rates, moving beyond its traditional focus on domestic economic forces. [C1.]

Poultry Producers Prepare for Avian Flu Fears
Poultry producers and restaurants doubt that their chickens will be infected by avian flu or that people would catch the virus even if there were to be contamination. But they are concerned that if the virus gets to the United States, people will eat less chicken -- simply out of fear. And they are revving up big plans to be prepared. [C1.]

The World Health Organization says that despite agreements made earlier, many countries are still not promptly sharing information on avian influenza with the scientific community. [A5.]

Bid for Insurer Spurs Talk of European Consolidation
Aviva's bid for Prudential, one of Britain's largest life insurers, aroused speculation that consolidation would again sweep the industry. [C6.]

Dell Announces Plan to Double India Work Force
Dell, the world's largest maker of personal computers, plans to double the size of its work force in India, to 20,000, and is looking for a site for its manufacturing unit in the country, the company's chairman, Michael S. Dell, said. ''There is a fantastic opportunity to attract talent,'' Mr. Dell said, referring to the country's workers, many of whom are educated in technological fields and speak English. ''We will ensure a major recruitment push in engineering talents,'' he said during a visit to Bangalore, India's outsourcing capital. [C6.]

Major U.S. Stock Indicators Are Mixed
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.12 points, to 11,274.53. Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 2.17 points, to 1,305.08. The Nasdaq rose 7.63 points, to 2,314.11. [C9.]

The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators fell 0.2 percent in February, after a revised 0.5 percent rise in January. [C9.]

In a Violent Place, a New Type of Insurance
In what is apparently an unprecedented move, the Iraq Insurance Company has sold about 200 individual terrorism policies in the last year, and is now negotiating with several government ministries and private companies for group policies that would cover thousands of employees. [A1.]

Airline Workers Starting to Lose Free Flights
Through deep pay cuts and layoffs, airline employees knew they could still count on one thing: free flights. But that perk is now much harder to use because so many flights are full. [A1.]

Groups in France Call for More Protests on Labor Law
French students and unions stepped up pressure on the government, calling for a day of demonstrations and strikes on March 28 to fight a new labor law that makes it easier for companies to fire young employees. [A9.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Dell's share price since Feb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POULTRY (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (85%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (85%); INFLUENZA (84%); JURY TRIALS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (75%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INSURANCE (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (66%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%); BILL GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



450 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. and Columbia to Receive $200 Million Gifts for Research 

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD and JONATHAN D. GLATER; Karen W. Arenson contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
New York University and Columbia have each received donations of about $200 million, among the largest to academic institutions in recent years. The gifts, from different donors, come as both universities try to compete with rivals that have far larger endowments.
 The gift to N.Y.U., among the largest it has ever received, will create a multidisciplinary center for the study of the ancient world. Consisting of cash and real estate valued at up to $200 million, the gift is from the Leon Levy Foundation. Mr. Levy, who died in 2003, was a Wall Street investor and benefactor of art and archaeology. The university president, John Sexton, and the Levy foundation's trustee, Shelby White, Mr. Levy's widow, are expected to announce the gift today.
 The gift to Columbia, announced yesterday at a ceremony attended by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, is the largest in the university's history. It is from the Jerome L. Greene Foundation, established by Mr. Greene, a prominent New York lawyer and a Columbia alumnus, and from his widow, Dawn M. Greene. The money, slightly more than $200 million, will establish the Jerome L. Greene Science Center to study the brain and human behavior. 
 N.Y.U. officials emphasized in interviews that a goal of the new center, to be called the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, was to approach the research and teaching of antiquity on a broad geographic and thematic scale. The focus will be on cultural evolution through time and across societies and regions, incorporating the history, archaeology, literature and art of antiquity.
 The areas to be studied will include not only Europe and the Mediterranean basin, but also Central and East Asia -- from Gibraltar to Taiwan, as Glen W. Bowersock, a historian familiar with the plans, put it.
 N.Y.U.'s president, Dr. Sexton, said yesterday that the new institute ''will chart a new course that will transform the way antiquity is conceived and taught, without geographic or cultural boundaries.''
 In an interview yesterday, Ms. White recalled that her husband had complained that the history of the ancient world ''was being taught vertically, but it ought to be taught horizontally.''
 By that, Ms. White said, he meant that the complexities of ancient societies could be understood only by exploring their relationships across distances and over time. 
 ''This was our dream project,'' she said of the institute.
 Ms. White and Mr. Levy amassed a substantial collection of classical art over several decades. Many of the pieces of sculpture in their collection are on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and some have figured in recent controversies over the legitimate ownership of artifacts. Ms. White emphasized that the new institute would have no role in displaying or studying their collection. 
 ''We have a major collection,'' Ms. White said, choosing her words carefully. ''We have always bought in good faith. We publish and support archaeology. We know the collection will ultimately go to a major institution. That is not what the institute is created for.''
 Lawrence E. Stager, a Harvard archaeologist who has done excavations in Israel with help from the Levy Foundation, praised the new approach planned for the institute.
 ''Some of the most exciting research happens when you can get through the tunnel visions of academic departments,'' Dr. Stager said. ''This is a rare example of how to avoid scholarly provincialism and examine the interconnections of ancient cultures and exchange of ideas.''
 Dr. Bowersock, a professor of ancient history at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who advised Ms. White and Mr. Levy on the project, said: ''It's an idea whose time has come. I know of nothing like it. I know there are people who try to bridge disciplines, but I know of no institution that is committed to this for the study of antiquity.''
 The institute will be in a six-story townhouse at 15 East 84th Street, which was previously owned by the Ogden Reid family and then the American Jewish Congress. The Levy Foundation bought the property two years ago and is having it renovated.
 Christopher Ratte, a classical archaeologist at N.Y.U., said the institute was expected to hire five or six full-time professors, maybe an equal number of visiting fellows, and several post-doctoral researchers. 
 The institute is to begin operations as soon as a director is chosen, probably this fall, and the first class of doctoral students will start in 2008, university officials said.
 In announcing the gift to Columbia, Lee C. Bollinger, the university's president, said he hoped that the center would be ''the world's foremost facility for study of the brain and the mind.'' 
 Mayor Bloomberg, who attended the event along with Representative Charles B. Rangel, said, ''There's no doubt that the Greene Center will make a major contribution to our city.''
 Mr. Greene, for whom the new center at Columbia will be named, died in 1999. He was a founding member of the law firm of Marshall, Bratter, Greene, Allison & Tucker, and was a graduate of Columbia College and Columbia Law School.
 ''Jerry would be as excited as the foundation and I to be making this gift,'' Ms. Greene, the president of the foundation, said in a statement. ''He believed in education, especially a Columbia education, and he believed in New York and its future.''
 The Greenes have previously donated $40 million to Columbia, the university said.
 The Greene Center will include laboratories and classrooms and will support scientists exploring the relationship of genes, the workings of the brain, and human behavior. Among other things, it will aim to explore the causes of diseases like Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative conditions. 
 In his remarks, Dr. Bollinger emphasized that social scientists will also work with the center, so that economists, for example, may study the rationality of human behavior.
 Dr. Bollinger said research at the new center would help close the gap between study of the brain at the cellular or smaller level, and research into human behavior, learning and motivation, among other areas. The center will also study conditions like autism, dementia and schizophrenia.
 ''Those are two parallel universes, and there has been a very big gap between them,'' Mr. Bollinger told reporters after the ceremony.
 The Greene Center will be built at 125th Street and Broadway and will be part of the university's broader expansion into that area, Dr. Bollinger said. He said the university hopes to complete the center in five to six years.
 N.Y.U. and Columbia are longtime rivals, as Mayor Bloomberg observed at Columbia yesterday, but both universities must compete with other elite universities with much more money. Columbia's endowment is about $5.2 billion and N.Y.U., which is in the fifth year of a seven-year capital campaign to raise $2.5 billion, has about $1.6 billion, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. In contrast, Harvard has more than $25 billion and Yale, $15 billion.
 The gifts to the two universities are exceeded only by about a dozen philanthropic endeavors within the last 10 years, like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation's $1 billion Millennium Scholars Program and a $600 million gift by Gordon and Betty Moore to the California Institute of Technology, according to The Chronicle.
 Stanford University received $400 million from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation in 2001, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology received about $350 million over 20 years from Patrick J. and Lore Harp McGovern. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute received $360 million from an anonymous donor in 2001.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dawn M. Greene, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Representative Charles B. Rangel at Columbia, where Ms. Greene announced her gift.
 A view of the interior of the townhouse on East 84th Street that the Leon Levy Foundation has donated to N.Y.U. The building, still under renovation, will be the home of a new center for study of the ancient world. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); CLASSICS (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SCULPTURE (75%); ART COLLECTING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (71%) Colleges and Universities; Gifts; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%) New York University; Columbia University; Levy, Leon, Foundation; Greene, Jerome L, Foundation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%); CHARLES B RANGEL (74%) John Noble Wilford; Jonathan D Glater; Dawn M Greene

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (69%); MEDITERRANEAN (69%); ASIA (69%); EASTERN ASIA (69%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (69%); GIBRALTAR (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



451 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Opponents of New French Labor Law Step Up Protests

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH; Ariane Bernard and Maia de la Baume contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PARIS, March 20 

 BODY:
French students and unions stepped up pressure on the government on Monday, calling for a day of demonstrations and strikes on March 28 to fight a hotly contested new labor law that makes it easier for companies to fire young employees.
 Students also planned to march in Paris again on Tuesday, continuing the protests that began Feb. 7 and have grown into a national movement, tipping the embattled government into crisis. 
President Jacques Chirac repeated calls for dialogue between the government and opponents of the law, which he said could be ''improved,'' while Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin met with business leaders, unemployed youths and students in an effort to find a way out of the impasse that threatens his political career.
 ''He is ready to go further than this,'' a spokesman for Mr. de Villepin said Monday, hinting that there was room for negotiation. ''If there are proposals from the unions, he is ready to study them.''
 The battle over what amounts to an incremental change in the country's social contract is emblematic of the overwhelming challenge facing many Western European nations as they try to loosen rigid labor laws and trim costly benefits that have built up in the social-welfare systems that emerged after World War II.
 Governments recognize the need for fundamental change, particularly as their societies age and the burden of pensions and health care balloon. But few have the political will to force those changes on their societies.
 ''Everybody knows it's impossible to continue with this model, but nobody in France has found a solution to respond to the problem,'' said Jean-Daniel Levy, a director at C.S.A., a polling company based in Paris. Part of the problem is that the French are wary of the more market-driven systems in the United States and Britain, which they consider heartless. ''What they've been able to do is define what they don't want, but they have trouble saying what it is they want,'' Mr. Levy said.
 One of the most pressing problems is youth unemployment, currently more than double the national average of 10 percent, which the new law is intended to address. But because of France's strong job security laws, many companies prefer to hire temporary workers rather than full-time employees who would be extremely hard to lay off, even if they do not work out. 
 The new law, passed by Parliament this month but not yet in effect, would allow companies to hire people under 26 for a two-year trial period, during which they could easily be fired. It is intended to open up full-time jobs for people entering the work force.
 But Roland Cayrol, research director at the National Foundation of Political Sciences, said the situation was complicated because the French were worn out by a quarter-century of change meant to address chronic high unemployment.
 ''People voted right, they voted left, they voted for a coalition, they lived through nationalization and then privatization, all with the promise that it would bring down unemployment,'' he said. ''Now their first reaction to any change is, 'We don't believe you.' '' 
 So far, Mr. de Villepin has rebuffed calls to cancel the law. But he is no Margaret Thatcher, who broke the power of British unions and pushed for a more flexible labor market a generation ago. 
 Though French unions account for less than 10 percent of the work force, their concentration in the public sector, particularly in transportation, gives them the ability to wreak havoc on daily life, putting enormous pressure on the government.
 The unions have refused to talk with Mr. de Villepin, though they have stopped short of calling for a paralyzing general strike. ''For now, the unions reject the government's conditions for a dialogue,'' said a representative of the French Confederation of Christian Workers, one of the country's five major union syndicates. He said the unions were demanding that the new contract rules be suspended before talks with the government begin. ''Without this condition, we won't do anything,'' he said.
 Mr. Villepin has made three proposals meant to soften the impact of the new contract rules ''within the framework of the law,'' according to his spokesman, who said suspending the law was not really possible.
 The proposals include designating a mentor for young employees hired under the new law, a six-month review to give those employees a sense of how they are doing and free training if they are fired.
 The standoff threatens to weaken Mr. de Villepin, a diplomat and poet, at a time when he wants to be consolidating power to make a run in the presidential campaign next year. Already, his approval rating has plunged to its lowest since he took office last May.
 A survey last week by C.S.A., the polling company, found that two out of three French people are against the first employment contract, known by its French initials, C.P.E.


GRAPHIC: Photo: University students in Toulouse raised ID cards as they voted to continue a strike against a labor law change. (Photo by Remy Gabalda/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); WORLD WAR II (67%) Strikes; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (74%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) France; Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



452 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Demagogues

 BODY:
Less than a week after he denounced the ''wayward path'' of deficit spending to a gathering of 2,000 Republican Party stalwarts, Senator Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader and would-be president, was busy presiding over business as usual in the Senate. Last Thursday, Mr. Frist, 49 of his fellow Republican senators and one Democrat approved a $2.8 trillion budget for 2007. The budget vote came just hours after Mr. Frist and 51 other Republicans voted to raise the nation's debt limit for the fourth time in five years -- this time by $781 billion, to nearly $9 trillion. All of that increase will be needed to pay for earlier tax cuts and spending increases, and, if the Republicans get their way on taxes, to pay for future deficit-financed tax cuts. 
 Wayward, indeed. Mr. Frist has voted for every major spending increase and tax cut backed by President Bush since 2001. As the Senate leader for more than three years, he bears even greater responsibility than his fellow enablers for the country's dismal financial condition. Yet he is certainly not alone these days in calling for greater budget restraint while pursuing reckless policies. Other Republican presidential hopefuls, notably Senator George Allen and Senator John McCain, have also been coming out forcefully as fiscal conservatives. 
Mr. Allen's record is no better than Mr. Frist's. Mr. McCain made a stand by voting against the Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2003 and Mr. Bush's tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. But, like his fellow Republican contenders, he supports extending tax cuts for investors, even though they are not paid for. 
 If leading Republicans were serious about the deficit, here's what they'd be saying: 
 Let the tax cuts expire as scheduled in 2008 and 2010 unless the budget improves significantly before then. Republicans want voters to believe that the deficit is the result of spending increases alone -- not tax cuts. That's false. The swing from a $236 billion budget surplus in 2000 to a $371 billion deficit today is a huge deterioration in the nation's fiscal balance, equal to 5.3 percent of the economy. Of that, fully 62 percent is due to lower tax revenues. 
 Reimpose bulletproof budget rules. Potential candidates have started calling for a presidential line-item veto and a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution. Those are shopworn delaying tactics that let politicians avoid hard calls. A real deficit-reduction plan would call for a return to the budget rules in effect from 1990 to 2001. These ''pay as you go'' rules helped create the budget surpluses of the 1990's by forcing Congress to pay for both tax cuts and entitlement spending increases.
 An effort to reimpose the rules was defeated in the Senate as recently as last week, with 50 Republicans, including Mr. Frist and Mr. Allen, refusing to reinstate the rules. All 44 Democratic senators, 5 Republicans and one independent voted for the rules, but a majority of 51 votes is needed to win. Mr. McCain, to his credit, was among the 5 Republican senators who voted with the Democrats.
 Spend wisely. For all their recent talk about wasteful spending, none of the Republican hopefuls have offered specifics about what they would ax. But in the past, their targets have been programs that foster better health, education and infrastructure. Those are precisely the investments we need for economic vitality. 
 A serious leader would balance spending and taxes in order to govern well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); VETO (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); MEDICARE (50%) Editorials; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%) Bill (Sen) Frist; John S (Sen) Mccain; George (Sen) Allen; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



453 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; APPRECIATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: A Republican Rara Avis

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. SEMPLE JR.

 BODY:
A little over 10 years ago, an army of conservative Republicans led by Newt Gingrich and united by a political manifesto called the Contract With America swept into Washington. Among other things, they were determined to reverse a long and honorable tradition of bipartisan cooperation on laws protecting the country's air, water and wilderness. That most of these laws had been enacted under Richard Nixon was of no consequence to Mr. Gingrich and his acolytes, who divined (incorrectly, as it turned out) a strong public appetite for deregulation. 
 Two people played a major role in keeping the Gingrich forces at bay. One was President Bill Clinton, who had begun to grasp the political potential of environmental issues, and who was willing to veto bills that had provisions he did not like. The other was Sherwood Boehlert, a Republican member of the House from upstate New York who took it upon himself to organize an opposing army of moderate Republicans dedicated to the stewardship principles of Theodore Roosevelt. The moderate coalition grew to about 70 members -- only one-third of the G.O.P.'s House majority, but sufficient to forestall damaging rewrites of every important environmental law.
Six years later, Mr. Boehlert again found himself at war with his fellow Republicans -- only this time he clashed with a president, a vice president and the ideologues and lobbyists they had installed in nearly every key environmental post. And this time (without Mr. Clinton's veto threats), Mr. Boehlert was less successful. He helped keep the oil drillers out of the Arctic refuge. But his brave band of moderates had shrunk, and he could not reverse Mr. Bush's rollback of rules protecting the national forests, persuade his colleagues to tackle global warming by improving fuel economy standards, or prevent new threats to the Endangered Species Act. 
 Approaching his 70th birthday, Mr. Boehlert announced on Friday that he would not run for re-election this fall. Democrats were pleased, hoping to pick up a potential swing seat. But Mr. Boehlert's departure can never be cause for celebration. He has been an endangered species in his own right. ROBERT B. SEMPLE JR.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WILDERNESS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%) Environment; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Robert B Jr Semple; Sherwood (Rep) Boehlert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (76%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



454 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Be Sure Before You Censure

BYLINE: By H. W. Brands. 
H. W. Brands, a history professor at the University of Texas at Austin, is the author, most recently, of ''Andrew Jackson: His Life and Times.''

 BODY:
RUSSELL FEINGOLD, the outspoken Democratic senator from Wisconsin, wants to censure President Bush for authorizing wiretaps of Americans without court orders. His fellow Democrats haven't exactly leaped to his side, but a recent poll indicated that 46 percent of the public considers censure warranted. If that figure increases, Mr. Feingold may have company.
 Still, history shows that he ought to move carefully. While many have compared the censure proposal to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, there is a more relevant precedent: In 1834, America's most famous political orator, Henry Clay of Kentucky, arranged the Senate's only successful censure of a president, Andrew Jackson -- and he never stopped paying for his accomplishment. 
The bad blood between Clay and Jackson dated to the election of 1824, in which Jackson received the greatest number of popular and electoral votes, but not a majority of either. Clay finished third in the popular count and fourth in electors. The contest went to the House, and Clay threw his support to John Quincy Adams, who won the presidency and thereupon named Clay secretary of state -- and next in line, in the practice of the day, for the White House. Jackson defeated Adams in an 1828 rematch, spoiling Clay's plans for the succession. But Clay maneuvered Jackson into vetoing a measure to renew the charter of the Bank of the United States, a privately controlled precursor to the Federal Reserve system. Clay forced the issue because he anticipated that the bank veto would undermine business confidence, which it did. Clay was wrong, however, in thinking this would fatally weaken Jackson in the 1832 election, in which Clay ran as the candidate of the new anti-Jackson coalition, soon to be called the Whigs. 
 Jackson was re-elected handily, and afterward withdrew the federal government's deposits from the Bank of the United States as punishment for its collusion in Clay's machinations. ''The bank, Mr. Van Buren, is trying to kill me,'' Jackson told Vice President Martin Van Buren. ''But I will kill it!''
 Amid this so-called Bank War, Clay proposed to censure the president for removing those deposits without Congressional approval. The proposal enraged Jackson, who castigated Clay for being as ''reckless and as full of fury as a drunken man in a brothel.'' It provoked an uproar in the Senate and the press, with Jackson's supporters rallying behind him as the defender of democracy against the moneyed interests, and his critics alleging that his interpretation of executive authority was revolutionary and unconstitutional. (Beyond the shouting, there were plausible arguments on both sides -- as in the case of the Bush wiretaps.) On March 28, 1834, the Senate critics carried the day, approving the censure resolution by a vote of 26 to 20.
 Clay thought he had won a great triumph. But the 1834 midterm elections returned control of the Senate to the Democrats, as the Jacksonians were called by then. And the Democrats refused to let the censure issue rest. Senator Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri, who had once shot Jackson in a street brawl (the president still carried bullet fragments in his shoulder) but eventually became the president's most devoted partisan, campaigned incessantly against the censure and all who had voted for it. His efforts helped make the retiring Jackson the focus of the 1836 presidential election, bringing voters out in force for Van Buren, Jackson's uncharismatic protege.
 The Democrats celebrated Van Buren's victory by voting to expunge the censure resolution from the records of the Senate. As Jackson, old and ill, prepared to leave Washington for the Hermitage, his plantation near Nashville, Benton choreographed an elaborate ceremony in which the original handwritten journal of the Senate from 1834 was carried into the chamber and the Senate's secretary, after drawing bold black lines around the censure resolution, wrote across it, ''Expunged by order of the Senate.''
 Benton retrieved the secretary's pen and sent it to Jackson as spoils of victory, while Henry Clay was left to mutter against the ''foul deed which, like the blood-stained hands of the guilty Macbeth, all ocean's waters will never wash out.'' Clay continued to pay for his temerity: in 1844, even as Jackson declined toward death, Clay lost his third (and final) race for the presidency to another Jackson protege, James K. Polk.
 Russ Feingold is no Henry Clay, at least not yet. And if he hopes to discredit Mr. Bush, as he doubtless does, I'd suggest he find means other than censure. The last thing today's Democrats want to do is to make George W. Bush look like Old Hickory.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETO (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TERRORISM (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); ESPIONAGE (62%); PROSTITUTION (61%) Terrorism; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); History; Terrorism; Public Opinion; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RUSS FEINGOLD (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%) H W (Prof) Brands; George W (Pres) Bush; Russell (Sen) Feingold; Andrew (1767-1845) Jackson; Henry (1777-1852) Clay

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



455 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Global View Is Backed By Fed Chief 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the newly installed Federal Reserve chairman, suggested yesterday that the central bank would need to pay more attention to global financial conditions in setting interest rates, moving beyond its traditional focus on domestic economic forces.
 In a speech to the Economic Club of New York at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Manhattan, Mr. Bernanke said that to understand the reasons behind movements in American bond yields ''an explanation less centered on the United States might be required.''
In only his third speech since being sworn in as Fed chairman last month, Mr. Bernanke was also skeptical about the argument that the economy will slow in the near future, a view that many investors may take as a sign that the Fed is not quite near the end of its string of interest rate increases. 
 Mr. Bernanke built the prepared text of his speech around one of the most pressing puzzles in financial markets today: Why do long-term bond yields remain so low despite steadily rising short-term interest rates?
 Traditionally long-term rates have fallen when investors have anticipated a slowdown in the economy or a decline in inflationary pressures. But Mr. Bernanke argued that other factors --including a worldwide imbalance between abundant savings and less robust investment -- may be a more powerful explanation for the current phenomenon. 
 Over time, however, the challenge will come in determining whether global forces are likely to push rates lower than otherwise might be the case -- or higher. The answer, Mr. Bernanke said, will be increasingly crucial to the conduct of monetary policy. If long-term yields are low primarily because investors are buying more long-term bonds -- be they Chinese central bankers trying to manage the yuan's exchange rate or global investors more comfortable with long-term securities because of a decline of economic volatility -- they would be adding an extra lift to consumer spending and business investment. That would tend to push the Fed to raise its key interest rate a little more than it might otherwise have considered appropriate.
 ''If spending depends on long-term interest rates, special factors that lower the spread between short-term and long-term rates will stimulate aggregate demand,'' Mr. Bernanke said. Other things being equal, he added, this ''argues for greater monetary policy restraint'' and higher short-term interest rates. 
 On the other hand, if the low bond yields are indicating that investors expect an economic slowdown around the corner, it might require the Fed to take a different tack.
 The behavior of long-term bond yields has perplexed financial investors for many months. Starting in June 2004, the Fed has raised short-term rates from 1 percent to 4.5 percent in quarter-point increments. Yet the 10-year Treasury bond yield has inched ahead only slightly, and is now less than a quarter of a percentage point higher, creating a pattern known as a flat yield curve. 
 Financial investors awaited Mr. Bernanke's speech in hopes of combing it for signs of when the Fed might end its series of interest rate increases. The Fed is widely expected to raise its key rate another quarter of a point at its meeting next week, but analysts are divided over whether it will echo that increase in May. 
 Yet beyond discarding the notion of an economic slowdown, Mr. Bernanke refrained from providing any precise indication of what to expect from the Fed. ''The implications for monetary policy of the recent behavior of long-term yields are not at all clear-cut,'' he said.
 There was virtually no reaction in the bond market to Mr. Bernanke's speech, with yields on 2-year notes and 10-year bonds remaining nearly identical.
 ''This speech is not going to change anybody's mind that the Fed will raise interest rates next week,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial Group in New York. ''But it leaves up in the air what the Fed will do at its next meeting in May.'' 
 Mr. Bernanke agreed that domestic factors were still highly important in determining long-term rates, pointing out that the drag on consumer spending from higher-priced energy and expectations that the housing market will cool might be keeping long-term interest rates low even as short-term rates rise. 
 But he threw a new element into the mix: the possibility that what he has referred to as a ''global savings glut'' -- an excess in global savings over global investment -- might also be weighing on long-term rates, with ambiguous implications for American monetary policy. 
 Considering all these elements left Mr. Bernanke perched on the fence. To the extent that lower long-term yields merely reflect investors increased appetite for long-term debt, he said, ''the policy rate associated with a given degree of financial stimulus will be higher than usual.''
 But ''to the extent that long-term rates have been influenced by macroeconomic conditions, including such factors as trends in global savings and investment, the required policy rate will be lower.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); TRENDS (68%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Government Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Economic Club of New York

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%) Eduardo Porter; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



456 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Bid for British Insurer StirsTalk of New Merger Wave

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, March 20 

 BODY:
A recent bid for one of Britain's largest life insurers aroused speculation Monday that consolidation would again sweep the industry, sending stock prices up in Europe. 
 Aviva, the nation's largest life insurance company, confirmed that it had made an offer valued at $:17 billion (nearly $30 billion) for the British company Prudential P.L.C. last Thursday. Aviva said on Monday that it was not considering improving its offer, which represented a 10 percent premium to Prudential's market value before it was made, and added that it was interested only in a friendly deal.
Prudential, though, reiterated what it had said over the weekend: it was not interested in the merger. ''The board does not believe the proposal is in the interests of Prudential shareholders,'' the chairman, Sir David Clementi, said in a statement. 
 Prudential, which is unrelated to Prudential Financial of the United States, is considered an attractive asset because of its Asia unit, which in 2004 made more than $650 million in profit selling insurance in 12 Asian markets including Taiwan and South Korea. Nearly a third of the company's 18 million customers are in Asia. Prudential also owns Jackson National Life in the United States.
 Aviva -- which was put together in a series of mergers from 1998 to 2002, most prominently involving the insurer Commercial Union -- has been the most acquisitive life insurance company in the world in recent years, according to a report by Swiss Re. From 1998 to 2004, the report said, Aviva concluded 21 deals valued at $33.4 billion. 
 Despite the differing stances of Aviva and Prudential, investors here bet Monday that other insurers might strike deals or make a run at Prudential or Aviva themselves, sending the Dow Jones European Insurers index up 1.1 percent. The FTSE index of 300 European stocks touched its highest level since July 2001.
 A new wave of consolidation in the insurance industry would be welcome after several years of deal drought, investors and analysts said. During the early and mid-1990's, consolidation among European insurers was common both within countries and across borders. The decline in equity prices after the Internet and technology bubbles burst crippled many of those companies, which had generally invested more than their American counterparts in stocks. 
 European insurers are in good enough financial shape to again pursue deals, analysts said. ''Despite the large losses related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma,'' Standard & Poor's said in a report in January, ''2005 was a good year for the insurance sector in Europe.'' 
 An S.& P. analyst, Rob Jones, said, ''Balance sheets at this point are pretty healthy,'' especially compared to three or four years ago. Profitability and market conditions are good and are expected to stay that way for the next few years, he said. 
 Meanwhile, because growth opportunities are limited for most big insurers, they are trying to diversify. Looking in Europe may make more sense than in the United States, Mr. Jones said, adding that ''trans-Atlantic acquisitions have tended to go less well than ones done in Europe.'' 
 Swiss Re has predicted that European mergers and acquisitions would pick up over the next several years, in part because of new regulatory and accounting requirements. 
 AXA of France is Europe's largest insurer, with $58.4 billion in premiums at the end of 2004, followed by Allianz of Germany and ING of the Netherlands. AXA and Allianz were named by analysts as possible suitors for Prudential, though there was no evidence Monday that either was putting together an offer. 
 Given the deal-hungry environment, other companies in Europe may become targets. Fox-Pitt, Kelton, an investment bank in New York specializing in financial service industries, raised its rating of the Dutch insurer Aegon on Monday, saying the company could be a takeover candidate. Duncan Russell, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton, said that Aegon had a ''relatively undervalued and underutilized franchise,'' particularly in the United States.
 Aviva laid out details of its offer Monday. It said that annual dividends would increase 37 percent for Prudential shareholders if the deal went through, and that some $562 million would be saved in annual costs. Aviva also said that a new management team would be assembled from both organizations. 
 The offer values Prudential at $:7.08 ($12.43) a share, a price that some analysts said was too low. Credit Suisse analysts gave Prudential a target price of $:7.32 a share. ''We believe that other insurers may now also consider bidding for Prudential,'' Credit Suisse said. 
 Aviva and Prudential each said they hoped that investors would come around to their point of view. But because Prudential and Aviva share many of the same stockholders, it may be difficult for these investors to make a decision. Half of the top 15 investors in Aviva are also invested in Prudential. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REINSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BONDS (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL PLC (94%); AVIVA PLC (92%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (66%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Plc; Aviva Plc

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (94%); PRU (LSE) (94%); K6S (SGX) (94%); 2378 (HKSE) (94%); AV (NYSE) (92%); AV (LSE) (92%); SREN (SWX) (66%); PRU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



457 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Still Loyal to Your Airline? You Must Be Looney Tunes

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey

 BODY:
BECAUSE I fly mostly out of Newark, a big Continental hub where the carrier has kept its fares competitive with low-cost airlines, I assiduously racked up the minimum number of miles for several years to maintain the top frequent-flier status level, Platinum Elite. 
 Alas, in 2005, I didn't fly the minimum number of miles (75,000) for top status this year. So, Continental busted me down to the middle-status tier, Gold Elite (which requires an annual minimum of 50,000 miles). 
Still, even though reduced one grade in rank, you would think I would get a lot more consideration than, say, Elmer Fudd.
 But in an experiment last week, I went on the Continental Web site to research seat availability on a flight (with seven-day advance purchase) from Newark to Los Angeles, departing tomorrow and returning March 29. The round-trip fare was $608, by the way -- nearly twice what I had been accustomed to paying in recent years on that route.
 Sufferin' succotash, as Mr. Fudd's co-worker in the cartoon factory, Sylvester the Cat, would say. Basically, Mr. Fudd and I were treated pretty much the same in the dry-run booking. Neither of us could score a good seat, even though one of us was Gold Elite and the other was a cartoon.
 The best Mr. Fudd could get were two middle-row seats. For the departing flight, on a 737, Mr. Fudd got 17-B in the middle of the plane. For the return, on a 757, Mr. Fudd got a middle seat back by the toilets. 
 But I, Mr. Gold Elite, did not fare much better on the same itinerary. I could get only middle-row seats on both trips. And I would rather take a brick up side the head than sit in a middle row seat on a long flight. 
 Two forces are at work. One, airplanes are packed because the major carriers have reduced the number of seats available on domestic flights (while adding capacity on more lucrative international flights) even as passenger demand is at record levels. And two, airlines, lunging for every dollar, have been alienating their most loyal fliers by gradually reducing elite-status perks.
 Now, frequent fliers, overwhelmingly business travelers, understand basic economics. Fellow travelers are constantly telling me they realize airlines cannot continue losing money. Fares inevitably will rise. Get used to it. The Air Transport Association said yesterday that domestic yields (the average revenue per passenger-mile flown) jumped 12.2 percent in February on major airlines, compared with February 2005. 
 But can airlines afford to lose their most loyal customers as they scrounge for spare change? Early in 2005, Delta Air Lines simplified its complex fare structures, and, in the process, greatly reduced domestic first-class fares. Most major airlines copied Delta's move. One consequence was that as more business travelers started buying first-class seats, free upgrades to first class from coach -- the prime motivator for elite-status programs -- became harder to get.
 On Flyertalk.com, a popular frequent-flier Web site distinguished by its members' intensity, civility and expertise, the deterioration of elite-status programs is drawing robust discussion. ''Expectations are dropping,'' one Continental elite-status flier wrote recently, though he did sensibly concede, ''Too bad Continental spoiled me for so long.''
 With upgrades scarcer, there are still some benefits to elite-status programs, like getting first dibs on booking such choice seats as aisle seats toward the front of coach or exit row seats with extra legroom. But that, too, is fading. 
 Then last week, Northwest Airlines, in what it called a test program, started charging an extra fee, $15 for each leg of a flight, to reserve choice coach seats. Anyone can reserve them.
 The reaction on Flyertalk.com was swift. You alienate your most loyal fliers ''when you start taking away preferred seating,'' one Northwest Platinum Elite member wrote in a letter to a Northwest executive, adding that he would be taking his business elsewhere.
 Last year, I was a speaker at a seminar on loyalty programs sponsored by Unisys. While some experts continued to defend the viability of frequent-flier programs, many said the programs had reached a tipping point at which their value was not perceived to be worth the cost in loyalty. Award tickets are harder to get, and elite-status programs are failing to deliver, they said.
 So that is where we are today. When booking travel, I now go to Orbitz, Travelocity and Expedia to research fares, with less regard than ever for piling up loyalty miles. Domestic air travel, to me, has now become a mere commodity. 
 As for loyalty and the never-ending quest for elite-status miles, let me quote still another Looney Tunes star, Porky Pig: ''T-t-t-t-t-that's all, folks.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Orbitz; Travelocity; Expedia Inc; Flyertalk

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



458 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Profit Taking Wins Out, and the Rally Takes a Pause 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street's four-day rally paused yesterday, with the major indexes finishing mixed as optimism over a potential end to the Federal Reserve's string of interest rate increases clashed with investors' desire to take profits.
 With slowing economic growth and little evidence of inflation, the market is becoming more optimistic that the Fed, which meets next Tuesday, will stop raising rates by May. 
But with stocks up for four sessions last week and the Dow Jones industrials and Standard & Poor's 500 index at their highest since May 2001, confidence in the market's ability to keep advancing could be faltering. 
 ''There's really not a lot of information here to work with, and I think the market's taking a rest,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. ''We're still a few weeks away from first-quarter earnings, so all you have to focus on is a slowing economy and interest rates.''
 The Dow fell 5.12 points, or 0.05 percent, to 11,274.53. Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed. The S.& P. 500 lost 2.17 points, or 0.17 percent, to 1,305.08, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 7.63 points, or 0.33 percent, to 2,314.11.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.47 point, or 0.06 percent, to 745.62.
 Oil prices tumbled, helping to limit the market's losses. A barrel of light crude settled at $60.47, down $2.35, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators slipped in February, falling 0.2 percent after a 0.5 percent rise in January. The January figure was revised from 1 percent -- a signal that the economy could be slowing. While a slowing economy bodes well for fewer rate increases, it also shows that economic growth has already begun to slow, which could affect future corporate earnings.
 ''I think, over all, we're seeing some friendly economic data that helped the market out,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investments in San Francisco. ''That said, there's not a lot of catalysts out there that could take us much higher, unless oil drops $5 a barrel or the Fed comes out with amazingly clear language in its take on the economy, and neither of those are likely.''
 In company news, Wal-Mart Stores gained $1.07, to $47.76, after reports of its plan to add 150,000 employees in China over five years.
 General Motors shares fell after reports that the company's board was demanding answers from top executives after Friday's disclosure of a $2 billion earnings restatement. G.M. lost 28 cents, to $20.85.
 Shares of Michaels Stores, the crafts retailer, jumped $4.39, or 13 percent, to $38.35. The company announced that it would put itself up for sale and that its longtime president and chief executive, R. Michael Rouleau, would retire. Two executives were named co-presidents.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 9 to 7 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.42 billion shares, compared with 2.01 billion traded Friday.
 Prices of United States Treasury securities were mostly higher, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rising 3/32, to 98 24/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.66 percent, from 4.67 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
6-Mo. Bills

Price98.85197.669
High Rate 4.545 4.610
Investment Rate 4.662 4.786
Low Rate 4.505 4.580
Median Rate 4.530 4.600
Total applied for $51,488,410 $47,840,661
Accepted $26,981,130 $23,275,196
Noncompetitive $2,007,330 $1,721,318


Both issues are dated March 23, 2006. The three-month bills mature on June 22, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 21, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks treasury bills, high rate at weekly auction, since December. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (69%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTMENTS (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



459 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Two Perceptions of the Mellow Decade as Anything But

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Decade of Nightmares
The End of the Sixties and the Making of Eighties America
By Philip Jenkins
344 pages. Oxford University Press. $28.

1973 Nervous Breakdown
Watergate, Warhol, and the Birth of Post-Sixties America
By Andreas Killen
312 pages. Bloomsbury. $24.95.
 It was a time of big hair and bad taste, the end of the Beatles and the birth of disco, the era of Donny and Marie, Mork and Mindy, Tony Orlando and Dawn; a ''kidney stone of a decade,'' in the words of a ''Doonesbury'' character, that's remembered now for pet rocks, shag rugs, mood rings, leisure suits, water beds, beanbag chairs, smiley faces, avocado-colored refrigerators, mirrored sunglasses, black light posters, wide ties and even wider lapels. 
Two new books look beyond the image of the 1970's promoted by ''That 70's Show'' and other exercises in nostalgia to focus on far darker undercurrents running beneath that decade's tacky, polyester surface.
 In ''Decade of Nightmares,'' the scholar Philip Jenkins argues that the late 70's ushered in an era in which the liberal and libertarian ideas of the 60's were succeeded by ''a more pessimistic, more threatening interpretation of human behavior'' and ''more sinister visions of the enemies facing Americans and their nation.'' He argues that economic woes, gas shortages, ''steeply rising rates of violent crime'' and sensationalistic reports of serial murders and cult atrocities contributed to a ''sense of pervasive national malaise, decadence and social failure,'' which in turn created a reservoir of fear and anxiety that fed a conservative counterrevolution, even as the Iran hostage crisis and post-Vietnam worries about America's declining status in the world were fueling calls for a more aggressive foreign policy.
 The cultural historian Andreas Killen similarly argues in ''1973 Nervous Breakdown'' that the 70's have ''entered the historical lexicon as a virtual synonym for weakness, confusion, and malaise,'' adding that by the end of 1973 (a year that witnessed the unraveling of the Watergate cover-up, the Arab oil embargo and the end of the Vietnam war), ''the institutional failures of American society routinely evoked expressions of systemic, perhaps irreparable crisis.'' 
 By the early 70's, Mr. Killen goes on, ''much of the New Left had either degenerated into self-parody'' or turned to lifestyle experiments, and its critique of American society had given way, in the wake of Watergate, to conspiracy theory and ''pop paranoia.'' In 1973, he writes, President Richard M. Nixon ''began dismantling many of the social programs launched during the Johnson administration's War on Poverty,'' and ''a new punitive, neoconservative mood descended over the country'' with the passage of the Rockefeller drug laws and calls for the reinstatement of the death penalty by the Nixon administration. 
 Both of these books look at how many of the ideas and ideals of the 60's petered out in the 70's, and how a yearning for more traditional, moralistic values during that decade laid the groundwork for the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980. The authors' approaches, however, could not be more different. Mr. Killen has focused less on politics per se than on pop culture reflections of the national zeitgeist, giving us an impressionistic volume that deconstructs leitmotifs from the year 1973: like the idea of parricide, which rippled beneath calls for the impeachment of President Nixon and informed movies like ''Badlands''; or the mood of paranoia, which wafted through post-Watergate America and through Thomas Pynchon's classic novel, ''Gravity's Rainbow.''
 Mr. Killen's free-associative book is smart and insightful, but at times succumbs to grandiosity, trying too hard to turn disparate phenomena into representative tropes. He argues that ''the preoccupation with air travel and its risks that overtook the nation in 1973 reflected anxieties about the larger catastrophes overtaking the American ship of state''; and he contends that Watergate (and Nixon's White House tapes) and America's first reality show ''An American Family'' (starring the Louds) ''aroused anxieties about the hollowing out of private space'' and ''sounded the alarm about the breakdown of traditional authority.'' 
 As for ''Decade of Nightmares,'' it is a much more ponderous production, dutifully sifting the many events, foreign and domestic, that helped shape the disappointing presidency of Jimmy Carter, and dutifully looking at the many factors (demographic, social and religious) that helped set the stage for the ascendancy of Ronald Reagan and Republican conservatism. Unfortunately, the book is peppered with gross generalizations and hyperbolic assertions that undermine Mr. Jenkins's more considered assessments.
 For instance, he writes almost hysterically of growing worries in the 70's about serial murderers, child abuse, pornography and Satanism: ''The generation that came of age in the late 1960's was now prepared to believe that America was under assault from armies of faceless nightmare figures. In little over a decade, utopianism and libertarianism transformed into as threatening a social vision as had prevailed in America since the time of Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards. The nation moved from the era of Woodstock to that of the witch-hunts.''
 What both ''Decade of Nightmares'' and ''1973 Nervous Breakdown'' very clearly do is leave the reader with a palpable sense of how the legacy of the 70's (or the anti-60's, as Mr. Jenkins terms the post-1975 years) reverberates to this day in America. Mr. Killen reminds us that today's media-mediated, celebrity-centric culture was anticipated by Andy Warhol and the campy, self-conscious art that was created during the 70's in reaction to the values of sincerity and authenticity enshrined by the 60's. And Mr. Jenkins not only emphasizes similarities ''between the economic situation then and the one that exists now'' -- namely, serious deficits, lax fiscal discipline, rising energy prices and high spending on defense and national security -- but also underscores similarities in the absolutist, Manichean language employed by both the Reagan and George W. Bush administrations.
 Such observations point up the long shadow cast by the 1970's and defy the wishful thinking of the ''Doonesbury'' character who said of that ''kidney stone of a decade'': ''This, too, will pass.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip Jenkins (Photo by Jeff Swensen)
 Andreas Killen (Photo by Marie Sacco)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (76%); LITERATURE (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); CONSPIRACY (70%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (65%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (57%) Michiko Kakutani; Philip Jenkins; Andreas Killen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



460 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Biographer To Lead PEN Center In the U.S.

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
At the annual meeting of the PEN American Center on Thursday night, the organization of writers and editors is expected to ratify Ron Chernow, the best-selling biographer of J. P. Morgan, John D. Rockefeller and Alexander Hamilton, as its next president. Mr. Chernow will succeed the novelist Salman Rushdie, who has served as the group's leader for two years. 
 Mr. Rushdie, who is credited with having helped to reshape the PEN American Center's role in defending freedom of expression and open cultural exchange after Sept. 11, proposed Mr. Chernow as his successor. 
 ''I felt that with the enormous increase in interest in nonfiction, it would be good to have a major nonfiction writer,'' Mr. Rushdie said in an interview at the organization's offices on lower Broadway in SoHo, ''especially in view of the problems we've seen arise there recently. And his Alexander Hamilton biography constantly reminded me of a time when the best writers in America were also changing American history.''
 Mr. Chernow's wife, Valerie, died in January, and he declined to speak about the election while planning a memorial service for her, though he did comment by e-mail. On the prospect of taking over from the internationally famous Mr. Rushdie, he wrote, ''As Thomas Jefferson once said of Benjamin Franklin in Paris, you don't replace Franklin, you only succeed him.''
 There had been talk within PEN of extending Mr. Rushdie's tenure, but the group's bylaws limit a president to two one-year terms. Besides, ''the title of president for life is a thing to avoid in a democracy,'' Mr. Rushdie said. ''I need time for my day job,'' he added -- he is working on his next novel, his 10th. 
 Still, Mr. Rushdie is leaving with one last title after all: he has been named president of ''PEN World Voices: The New York Festival of International Literature,'' to be held April 25 through 30. After a hastily organized but sold-out trial run last year downtown, the event has been expanded to venues throughout the city. This year, it has the hot-button theme ''Faith and Reason.'' 
 Among those scheduled to appear is Orhan Pamuk, the Turkish writer, who will make his first visit to the United States since the Turkish government charged him with ''insulting Turkish identity'' in an interview last year; the charges against him, which were vigorously opposed by PEN, were dismissed in January. Mr. Pamuk is to deliver the inaugural Arthur Miller Freedom to Write Lecture on opening night. Three Nobel laureates -- South Africa's Nadine Gordimer, the Indian-born economist Amartya Sen, and the American novelist Toni Morrison -- are also scheduled to take part, Mr. Rushdie noted, as well as writers like Zadie Smith, Boris Akunin, Martin Amis, E. L. Doctorow, Elias Khoury and Ayaan Hirsi Ali. 
 Mr. Rushdie said that the center had also invited Tariq Ramadan, the Geneva-based Muslim author of such books as ''Western Muslims and the Future of Islam'' and ''Jihad, Violence, War and Peace in Islam'' to participate. Since 2004, though, Mr. Ramadan has been denied a visa by the United States government on grounds of a Patriot Act provision that his writings ''endorse or espouse terrorist activity.'' Together with the American Civil Liberties Union, PEN has filed suit challenging that decision.
 ''I felt that more conservative voices were missing last year,'' Mr. Rushdie said, ''and Ramadan would certainly be one.''
 The PEN American Center is an affiliate of International PEN, the literary and human rights organization founded in 1921. In the last few years, the center has become ''more activist,'' said Michael Roberts, the executive director since 1998 and, along with Esther Allen, who heads the translation program, another force behind the festival. ''We are joining more lawsuits, for instance,'' he explained, ''rather than just filing amicus briefs.''
 Mr. Rushdie's significant name recognition is credited with facilitating such efforts, including last year's successful claim to asylum in Australia for the dissident Iranian writer Ardeshir Gholipour. The center joined an effort arguing that his forced return would lead to persecution and even death in Iran. It also helped to build support in Congress for measures amending the Patriot Act to protect the privacy of bookstore and library records.
 Mr. Chernow joined PEN in 1990, shortly after publishing ''The House of Morgan,'' his history of the banking dynasty. ''I figured if I was going to write about assorted tycoons and moguls, I needed a strong counterweight that would keep me in touch with the rest of humanity,'' he said in his e-mail response. Now, he said, ''the supreme challenge facing PEN is that we live in an age of rampant fear and political fury, ideological intolerance and religious fundamentalism.'' 
 The voting process began in late December when the organization's nominating committee sent out a proposed slate headed by Mr. Chernow, with the novelist Jhumpa Lahiri as a vice president and the author Rick Moody as secretary. Most of PEN American Center's 3,100 members vote by proxy, so turnout at the annual meeting, held in the PEN offices, will likely be modest. 
 As a writer, Mr. Chernow has a biography of George Washington as his next project. What lessons might his research bring to his own presidency? Washington ''didn't fear vigorous internal debate or try to impose a uniformity of opinion,'' Mr. Chernow said, adding: ''Yet, out of those clashing views and headstrong personalities, he succeeded in producing an amazingly coherent and creative presidency. Not a bad model for any PEN president to emulate.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Chernow first joined the PEN American Center in 1990. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); HISTORY (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%) Books and Literature; PEN World Voices (Festival)

ORGANIZATION: Pen American Center

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (72%) Celia Mcgee; Ron Chernow; Salman Rushdie

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



461 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Approves Corzine Plan to Revive Road Fund

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES; Tina Kelley contributed reporting for this article from Newark.

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Giving a boost to Gov. Jon S. Corzine on the day before his first budget address, the New Jersey Senate on Monday gave final legislative approval to a plan to replenish the state's fund for maintaining its roads and bridges.
 The measure, which was approved by a vote of 25 to 13 that largely split along party lines, calls for the refinancing of more than $1.8 billion of the fund's debt, a move that will cost roughly $17 billion to repay over the next 30 years. The State Assembly approved the plan last week by a vote of 48 to 28. 
 The governor, who had campaigned on a pledge to end excessive borrowing and refinancing moves, had considered several alternatives to rescue the fund, including raising the state's gasoline tax, which at 10.5 cents a gallon is one of the nation's lowest.
 But through the refinancing plan, Mr. Corzine was able to sidestep the barbed prospect of a tax increase. Through a spokesman, Mr. Corzine hailed the passage of the measure, which he is expected to sign soon -- perhaps as early as Tuesday.
 ''Our state's roads and transit systems are essential for local, regional and national economies, and it is vital that we make the necessary investments today to keep this critical infrastructure safe for tomorrow,'' said Anthony Coley, Mr. Corzine's press secretary.
 Critics of the measure said that the plan was an extension of the kind of practices that had put the fund in jeopardy to begin with as it faced insolvency after years of borrowing against it. 
 ''It seems to me that there could have been an alternative that is more fiscally responsible,'' State Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon County, said during a debate on the measure moments before the vote was taken. ''This is a continuation down the road that we have traveled for at least half a decade, and even before that, of overreliance on debt.''
 State Senator Anthony R. Bucco, a Republican from Morris County, put it more plainly. ''Our grandchildren will be paying for repairs to roads that we will be doing next year,'' he said.
 Supporters of the plan said that while imperfect, the refinancing of the fund's debt was essential to keep the fund running. If the fund ran out of money, as expected on June 30, the state could have lost millions of dollars in federal matching funds.
 ''It's a responsible solution to solve the problem now,'' said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Democrat from Union County and a co-sponsor of the measure.
 Bernard F. Kenny Jr., who is from Hudson County and is the leader of the Senate's Democratic majority, said that although the gas tax was a viable solution -- and one that he supported -- he doubted it could pass the legislature.
 ''This is really the only option we have absent the gas tax and no one wants to vote for the gas tax,'' Mr. Kenny said. ''Unless somebody can come up with a way to infuse new additional revenues, we have no alternative.''
 Besides the refinancing aspects of the plan, some environmentalists expressed concern about the lack of a provision in the measure that would have required repairs to existing roads and bridges instead of building new ones. Opponents said they were concerned that without such a clause, new roads and bridges would be built with little regard for the environmental impact.
 ''It's the bridge to the 20th century -- we're going backwards,'' said Jeff Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club. ''This bill's going to mean more debt, more traffic, more sprawl and higher taxes. Both funding and environmentally, this is a step backward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FUEL TAX (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); MATCHING GIFTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); TAX LAW (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); GASOLINE (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) Roads and Traffic; Law and Legislation; Finances; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%); LEONARD LANCE (58%) Richard Lezin Jones; Tina Kelly; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



462 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: State to Forgo Cigarette Tax To Keep Peace With Indians 

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, March 20 

 BODY:
Across the street from Randy's Smoke Shop on the Tuscarora reservation near Niagara Falls sits a pile of tires and wood pallets, a reminder of the fires set during American Indian demonstrations against state tax policies in 1997 that closed several Interstate highways. 
 Hoping to avoid a repeat of those protests, the Pataki administration has said it will not enforce a law taxing cigarettes and other goods sold to non-Indians at stores on Indian reservations across the state. Gov. George E. Pataki's budget proposal calls for delaying enforcement of the law, which took effect on March 1, until next year. 
''Our goal has always been to solve this matter through cooperation instead of confrontation,'' said Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the governor. ''The Tax Department has indicated it will continue its current policy as the governor and Legislature discuss these matters.''
 Administration officials have said they are concerned that a repeat of the 1997 protests could slow interstate commerce, divert trucks carrying hazardous loads through heavily populated communities if the Interstates are blockaded again, and cost the state millions of dollars in state police expenses.
 Indian business owners assert that the tax law infringes on Indian sovereignty, is virtually unenforceable and will hurt stores that generate important economic activity on the reservations.
 ''How are we supposed to live?'' said Pauline Chrysler, whose son, Randy Chrysler, is a smoke shop owner. 
 But the Pataki administration's decision to delay enforcement of the new law has also fueled a partisan debate in Albany, where many Democrats have criticized the Republican governor for ignoring a significant source of revenue, because the state is not getting the $1.50-a-pack taxes it collects on cigarettes sold everywhere else in the state. 
 Last month, Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer suggested that wholesalers who continued supplying cigarettes lacking a tax stamp, which sell for as little as half as much as cigarettes in nonreservation stores, to Indian merchants could lose their licenses. Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, is running to replace Mr. Pataki, a Republican who is leaving office at the end of the year. 
 The latest budget bill passed by the Democratic-controlled State Assembly also calls for tax collections to begin immediately, with wholesalers facing penalties that could include loss of their licenses.
 ''You can't announce to the world that a law will simply be ignored and not enforced,'' Mr. Spitzer has said. Marc Violette, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, declined comment on Friday's clarifications by the Pataki administration.
 The United States Supreme Court ruled in 1994 that states have the right to collect sales tax on purchases by non-Indians at reservation stores.
 The conflicting messages from Albany have created confusion among Indian business owners and their wholesalers.
 Last Tuesday, one of the largest wholesalers to stores on the Seneca and Tuscarora reservations notified store owners there that it would stop shipping the unstamped cigarettes. But by Friday, a lawyer for the wholesaler said he had received word from the Tax Department that shipments of unstamped cigarettes could continue.
 Mr. Chrysler said he laid off about a dozen of his 30 employees shortly after being notified by the wholesaler that it was stopping shipments last week. By Thursday afternoon, customers were limited to one carton each in an effort to stretch dwindling supplies.
 ''All we're concerned about is knowing one way or another whether that policy (of nonenforcement) is going to continue,'' said Joseph E. Zdarsky, a lawyer for the wholesaler, Milhem Attea and Sons of Buffalo. ''If it didn't, theoretically, someone could assess taxes against our client in crippling amounts.''
 The profits from sales of tax-free cigarettes and gasoline have helped spawn other Indian businesses. One of Mr. Chrysler's brothers started a bottled-water supplier, while another opened a sneaker shop, both on the same property as his store.
 ''They know there's no pot of gold at the end of the rainbow here,'' Mr. Chrysler, who has owned the store for 16 years, said of his employees, many of whom are related to him. ''But it gives them pride and dignity, so they can go home and be a father or a mother -- they can be a provider.''
 State Senator George D. Maziarz, a Republican whose district includes the Tuscarora reservation, said postponing a resolution doesn't solve the issue.
 ''It's like a train wreck that everybody sees coming, but nobody knows how to avoid it,'' Mr. Maziarz said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TOBACCO STORES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SMOKING (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SALES TAX (77%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%) Taxation; Smoking and Tobacco; Indians, American; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Fines (Penalties)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) David Staba; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006



463 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Home Fuel Bills Show No Sign of Mild Winter

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Americans have spent more money heating their homes this winter than in a generation, despite mild weather that has kept down the consumption of heating fuel. 
 State and local governments have enlisted Boy Scouts to insulate homes, offered tax breaks on fuel efficient products and even recycled newspaper to make insulation to warm the homes of poor residents in one of the nation's frostier states.
This week, President Bush signed a bill to provide $1 billion in federal energy assistance to poor households in addition to $2 billion already allocated this year. Congress has battled over legislation to provide help for the coldest states, and the law this week includes the most money ever allotted for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. 
 The price of heating oil reached $2.38 a gallon this winter, the highest price since 1981 -- even adjusting for inflation -- according to federal figures, roughly 60 percent higher than the average price per gallon from 1999 to 2004. 
 The prices, even against the backdrop of a winter punctuated by blooming flowers in December and unadjusted thermostats, resulted in a 45 percent increase in household spending on fuel compared with the average of the last several years -- $1,386 per home -- even though consumption fell 9 percent in the same period.
 The story was the same in homes that use natural gas and propane for heating. Natural gas reached its highest price on record in late 2005, according to the federal figures, and spending rose to $867 per home, a 35 percent increase over previous years.
 ''The hurricanes knocked about 80 percent of the gas production from the Gulf of Mexico off line, helping push the price of natural gas this winter to the highest levels ever,'' said Tancred Lidderdale, the senior economist for the Energy Information Administration, an agency of the Energy Department.
 ''Similarly,'' Mr. Lidderdale said, ''the impact on crude oil production and refining in the gulf drove heating prices to the highest levels since the Iranian Revolution.''
 In response, states expanded their subsidized heating programs, spent millions of dollars on public service campaigns promoting conservation and enlisted volunteers and private businesses to help. 
 In Kalamazoo, Mich., residents on the north side of town, one of the city's poorest neighborhoods, ''talked about high heating costs and their fear that they could not afford to heat their homes,'' Mayor Hannah McKinney said. 
 The city created a program in which donated newspapers were collected by volunteers, turned into insulation by a local company and installed in homes. 
 In Kansas, the state's energy department bought 10,600 kits filled with foam weather stripping, low-flow shower heads and other conservation items, and then asked the Boy Scouts, church groups and other civic organizations to distribute and install them in some of the 93,000 homes of qualified residents statewide. 
 Given that Kansas had its warmest January on record -- with Topeka temperatures averaging 52 degrees instead of the usual 20 degrees -- state officials said they were well positioned to roll out the program next year. 
 ''With these strange weather patterns, we are not going to luck out forever,'' said Jim Ploger, the director of the Kansas Energy Office.
 Georgia and other states have declared so-called sales tax holidays for appliances featuring the Energy Star ratings given by the Department of Energy, and, in Pennsylvania, the governor's office is arranging weekly weatherization workshops in Lowe's home-improvement stores.
 In Connecticut, 24,000 low-income households and the state's homeless shelters got single deliveries of up to 200 gallons of heating oil at 40 percent off the retail price. 
 Eight states accepted discounted heating oil from the CitgoPetroleum Corporation, owned by the government of Venezuela, whose president, Hugo Chavez, has close ties to Fidel Castro of Cuba and who has been critical of Mr. Bush.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Balkema, a city official in Kalamazoo, Mich., with newspapers that will be turned into home insulation. (Photo by John A. Lacko for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); HEATING OIL (78%); PROPANE (78%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); UTILITY RATES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (74%); HEATING OIL PRICES (74%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); VOLUNTEERS (65%); MAYORS (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%) Heating; Law and Legislation; Heating Fuel; Weather; Insulation; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Boy Scouts

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



464 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Called by God to Help

BYLINE: By Roger Mahony. 
Roger Mahony is the cardinal archbishop of Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
I'VE received a lot of criticism for stating last month that I would instruct the priests of my archdiocese to disobey a proposed law that would subject them, as well as other church and humanitarian workers, to criminal penalties. The proposed Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration Control bill, which was approved by the House of Representatives in December and is expected to be taken up by the Senate next week, would among other things subject to five years in prison anyone who ''assists'' an undocumented immigrant ''to remain in the United States.''
 Some supporters of the bill have even accused the church of encouraging illegal immigration and meddling in politics. But I stand by my statement. Part of the mission of the Roman Catholic Church is to help people in need. It is our Gospel mandate, in which Christ instructs us to clothe the naked, feed the poor and welcome the stranger. Indeed, the Catholic Church, through Catholic Charities agencies around the country, is one of the largest nonprofit providers of social services in the nation, serving both citizens and immigrants. 
Providing humanitarian assistance to those in need should not be made a crime, as the House bill decrees. As written, the proposed law is so broad that it would criminalize even minor acts of mercy like offering a meal or administering first aid.
 Current law does not require social service agencies to obtain evidence of legal status before rendering aid, nor should it. Denying aid to a fellow human being violates a law with a higher authority than Congress -- the law of God.
 That does not mean that the Catholic Church encourages or supports illegal immigration. Every day in our parishes, social service programs, hospitals and schools, we witness the baleful consequences of illegal immigration. Families are separated, workers are exploited and migrants are left by smugglers to die in the desert. Illegal immigration serves neither the migrant nor the common good.
 What the church supports is an overhaul of the immigration system so that legal status and legal channels for migration replace illegal status and illegal immigration. Creating legal structures for migration protects not only those who migrate but also our nation, by giving the government the ability to better identify who is in the country as well as to control who enters it.
 Only comprehensive reform of the immigration system, embodied in the principles of another proposal in Congress, the Secure America and Orderly Immigration bill, will help solve our current immigration crisis.
 Enforcement-only proposals like the Border Protection act take the country in the opposite direction. Increasing penalties, building more detention centers and erecting walls along our border with Mexico, as the act provides, will not solve the problem. 
 The legislation will not deter migrants who are desperate to survive and support their families from seeking jobs in the United States. It will only drive them further into the shadows, encourage the creation of more elaborate smuggling networks and cause hardship and suffering. I hope that the Senate will not take the same enforcement-only road as the House.
 The unspoken truth of the immigration debate is that at the same time our nation benefits economically from the presence of undocumented workers, we turn a blind eye when they are exploited by employers. They work in industries that are vital to our economy yet they have little legal protection and no opportunity to contribute fully to our nation.
 While we gladly accept their taxes and sweat, we do not acknowledge or uphold their basic labor rights. At the same time, we scapegoat them for our social ills and label them as security threats and criminals to justify the passage of anti-immigrant bills.
 This situation affects the dignity of millions of our fellow human beings and makes immigration, ultimately, a moral and ethical issue. That is why the church is compelled to take a stand against harmful legislation and to work toward positive change. 
 It is my hope that our elected officials will understand this and enact immigration reform that respects our common humanity and reflects the values -- fairness, compassion and opportunity -- upon which our nation, a nation of immigrants, was built.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); IMMIGRATION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); REFUGEES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); POLITICS (76%); CHARITIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Roger (Cardinal) Mahony

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); United States

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



465 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 514 words

PERSON: Charles Newman

HEADLINE: Charles Newman, 67, Writer And Literary Journal Editor

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and critic who in 1964 turned a campus publication at Northwestern University into the prestigious literary magazine TriQuarterly and was its editor for more than a decade, died on March 15 in St. Louis. He was 67 and lived in St. Louis and Manhattan. 
 The cause was a heart attack, Mr. Newman's nephew Ben Ryder Howe said. At his death, Mr. Newman was a professor of English at Washington University in St. Louis, where he had taught since 1985.
Mr. Newman, who arrived at Northwestern in 1964 as a young instructor in the English department, is credited as the first official editor of TriQuarterly, which began in 1958 as a student and faculty magazine. Under his stewardship, it became an international journal showcasing the world's most eminent writers. 
 TriQuarterly still appears three times a year. It has published Jorge Luis Borges, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Carlos Fuentes, William H. Gass, Joyce Carol Oates, Cynthia Ozick, Raymond Carver, Anne Sexton, W. S. Merwin and John Ashbery.
 Mr. Newman, its editor until 1975, also wrote several experimental novels, including ''White Jazz'' (1984) and ''The Promisekeeper: A Tephramancy'' (1971).
 (Praised by critics for his mordant wit and pyrotechnic use of language, Mr. Newman reveled in the knowing, self-referential asides that were a hallmark of postmodern style. Thus, it is only fitting to interrupt his obituary here to explain that ''tephramancy'' -- also spelled ''tephromancy'' and pronounced TEFF-ruh-man-see -- means divination by means of ashes, especially those from an altar or ruined temple.)
 Mr. Newman also wrote two nonfiction books. The first, ''A Child's History of America'' (1973), is sometimes described as a travel memoir, sometimes as beyond category. The second, ''The Post-Modern Aura: The Act of Fiction in an Age of Inflation'' (1985), is a critical essay in which he argued that literature, like other late-20th-century commodities, had become devalued.
 Charles Hamilton Newman was born in St. Louis on May 27, 1938, and grew up in the Chicago area. He earned a bachelor's degree in American studies from Yale in 1960 and afterward studied politics and economics at Oxford as a Fulbright scholar. For several years in the late 70's, Mr. Newman directed the Writing Seminars at Johns Hopkins University.
 Sometimes likened to the work of William S. Burroughs and Thomas Pynchon, Mr. Newman's novels explore soullessness and atomization amid the ruined temple of postmodern life. Critical response was divided, often within a single review. Perhaps this was the point: he succeeded in atomizing even the individual critic, who fractured and flew apart with the effort of interpretation.
 Mr. Newman's other fiction includes ''There Must Be More to Love Than Death: Three Short Novels'' (1976) and ''New Axis: Or, The Little Ed Stories, an Exhibition'' (1966). He also edited critical studies of Vladimir Nabokov and Sylvia Plath.
 Mr. Newman was married and divorced five times. He is survived by a sister, June Howe, of Cambridge, Mass., and two nephews.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on March 22 about Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and the first editor of the literary magazine TriQuarterly, misstated the year he began teaching at Washington University in St. Louis. It was 1983, not 1985.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Newman in 1964. (Photo by Northwestern University Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LITERARY CRITICISM (90%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Books and Literature; Magazines; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (92%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



466 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Doctor Will See You for Exactly Seven Minutes

BYLINE: By Peter Salgo. 
Peter Salgo, a professor at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, is an internist and anesthesiologist, as well as the host of the PBS series ''Second Opinion.''

 BODY:
WHEN politicians speak of America's health care needs, they often miss an important point: the doctor-patient relationship has become frayed. Patients aren't unhappy just because health care costs too much (though they would certainly like it to be more affordable). Rather, people sense a malaise within the system that has eroded the respect they feel patients deserve. 
 There has been a shift in attitude within the profession. I see examples of it every day. I was making rounds in my intensive care unit recently when one of the interns presented a case. ''This is the first admission for this 55-year-old male,'' he said. 
 ''Stop,'' I said. ''He is a man.''
 ''That's what I said,'' the intern replied.
 ''Not exactly,'' I answered. Clearly, the intern didn't get it. Neither do a lot of other health care professionals anymore.
 The problem has been sneaking up on us for almost two decades. As health-care dollars became scarce in the 1980's and 90's, hospitals asked their business people to attend clinical meetings. The object was to see what doctors were doing that cost a lot of money, then to try and do things more efficiently. Almost immediately, I noticed that business jargon was becoming commonplace. ''Patients'' began to disappear. They were replaced by ''consumers.'' They eventually became ''customers.''
 This may seem a trivial matter, but it is not. You treat ''patients'' as if they were members of your family. You talk to them. You comfort them. You take time to explain to them what the future may hold in store. Sometimes, that future will be bleak. But you assure them you will be there to help them face it.
 You treat ''customers'' quite differently. Customers are in your place of business to purchase health care. You complete the transaction such a relationship suggests: health care for money. And then they aren't your customers any more. Taken a step further, you can make the case that the less time you spend with your customers, the better your bottom line will be. This gets everyone's attention.
 ''Length of stay'' became a buzz phrase in hospitals in the 1990's. So did ''throughput,'' an awful neologism for the number of patients per hospital bed per week. One of my colleagues joked that a hospital stay was a lot like a taxi ride. The institution collected a big fee when a patient got admitted, just as a cab driver saw most of his fare when he first turned the meter on. 
 The additional money collected over time wasn't nearly as impressive as that initial charge. The economics of the situation favored short trips, or lengths of stay, and lots of new riders, or throughput. The arithmetic worked, but I didn't notice a lot of people laughing.
 Doctors in hospitals all over the country began hearing the same business language and facing the same pressures to ''keep things moving.'' I used to be asked how well my patients were doing. Suddenly administrators were asking how long I was planning on keeping sick people in the intensive care unit. Each day a patient spent in my unit was a day some other paying patient would have to wait for a bed. Eventually, I was warned, some of those patients ''in orbit'' would go elsewhere, and we would not only ''lose their business,'' but we risked losing future referrals from other centers. 
 It wasn't just hospitalized patients who were taking up space other ''customers'' could use. Outpatients ''consumed'' health care ''resources,'' too. Publicly traded H.M.O.'s, for example, began restricting doctors to an average seven-minute ''encounter'' with each customer. This apparently kept shareholders happy. But it reduced the doctor-patient relationship to a financial concept in a business school term paper. 
 Doctors know you cannot provide compassion in seven-minute aliquots. But we have felt powerless to change things. The medical establishment has, many of us feel, simply rolled over and gone along to get along. It has sacrificed patients' best interests on the altar of financial return.
 This leaves the solution to the problem in the hands of our patients. You, the patient, are the system's best hope. In the age of seven-minute health care, you need to realize that you employ doctors. That is, your doctor works for you. Although doctors shouldn't think of patients as customers, you can, and should, adopt a business mind-set when shopping for health care.
 Evaluate what it is you expect from your doctor, then ask for it. If you are unhappy with your doctor, fire him. If you cannot get more than a seven-minute face-to-face encounter with your doctor, he needs fewer patients. The true power in the health care economy rests not with the doctors and certainly not with the backroom business staff. It rests with you. If you insist on being treated with care and respect, you will be. And the system will improve as a result.
 A pediatrician I know put it quite succinctly. ''There are a lot of doctors in town,'' she said. ''There's no need to settle for one that doesn't treat you well.''
 In one respect the business people are right. Restoring the doctor-patient relationship will not save anyone any money. But I submit that it doesn't have to. There are other ways to curtail health care costs. Some involve high technology; others do not. None of them requires patients to sacrifice their self-respect.
 We can and must reduce health care expenses. But we cannot do it at the expense of patients' well-being. The doctor-patient relationship is critical to the integrity of the health care system. It is not disposable. Turning doctors into shopkeepers who regard patients as customers is unacceptable.
 How will the M.B.A.'s and the politicians respond to what can only be termed a ''patient-driven revolution''? They will have to cope. I suspect doctors will be thrilled.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jon Krause)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ETHICS (71%) Medicine and Health; Doctors; Ethics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (58%)

PERSON: Peter (Dr) Salgo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



467 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Evacuees' Lives Still Upended Seven Months After Hurricane

BYLINE: This article is by Shaila Dewan, Marjorie Connelly and Andrew Lehren.; Brenda Goodman contributed reporting from Atlanta for this article, and Marina Stefan from New York.

 BODY:
Nearly seven months after Hurricane Katrina flooded New Orleans and forced out hundreds of thousands of residents, most evacuees say they have not found a permanent place to live, have depleted their savings and consider their life worse than before the hurricane, according to interviews with more than 300 evacuees conducted by The New York Times.
 The interviews suggested that while blacks and whites suffered similar rates of emotional trauma, blacks bore a heavier economic and social burden. And even as both groups flounder, most said they believed that the rest of the nation, and politicians in Washington, have moved on.
''I don't think anybody cares, really,'' said Robert Rodrigue, a semiretired computer programmer who has returned to his home in the suburb of Metairie. ''New Orleans is kind of like at the bottom of the country, and they just forget about us.'' 
 The Times study is the first major effort to examine the lives and attitudes of those displaced by the storm's devastation at the six-month point, a moment when many must decide whether to establish a life in a new place or return home.
 Fewer than a quarter of the participants in the study have returned to the same house they were living in before the hurricane, while about two-thirds said their previous home was unlivable. A fifth said their house or apartment had been destroyed. Many have not found work and remain separated from family members.
 Still, most of those interviewed favor returning to the city, expressing a sense of optimism about the recovery process or, more often, a fierce yearning for home, as if staying away from New Orleans were like trying to breathe air through gills.
 The 337 respondents were chosen randomly from a Web database of more than 160,000 evacuees, sponsored by the International Committee of the Red Cross, which was set up to help victims of the disaster reunite with their families. The interviews were conducted by telephone.
 The Times used standard survey methods in asking the questions and recording the answers, but the interview project differs from a scientific poll. For one thing, the demographic characteristics of the full evacuee population cannot be determined, so the group cannot be sampled with the statistical precision of a poll. For that reason, no margin of sampling error could be calculated for the study, which was conducted from Feb. 16 to March 3.
 Although the interviewees do not constitute a statistical sample, the racial makeup of the group, two-thirds black, was similar to that of the pre-hurricane population of the city. Those interviewed tended to be older and more predominantly female than the population as a whole.
 The blacks interviewed were more likely to have had their homes destroyed or to have lost a close friend or relative. Although a majority of both blacks and whites left their homes before Hurricane Katrina hit, blacks were more likely to have been separated from family members. 
 And while a majority of whites and blacks reported that they had depleted their savings since the storm, blacks were more likely to have done so, and more likely to have been forced to borrow money. Whites were more likely to have kept their jobs or found similar or better employment, and were also more likely, by a wide margin, to have already returned to the New Orleans area.
 A central question for New Orleans has been how much of its population would return, and 4 in 10 of those interviewed said they definitely or probably would. Another fourth were already back.
 ''New Orleans is in my blood; it's in my genes,'' said Jacob Mitchell, 67, a hospital maintenance man who is living for the time being with his daughter in Slidell, La. ''It's like I'm married to New Orleans.''
 Of the rest of his family, scattered to four cities in three states, Mr. Mitchell said, ''If they had a house to come back to, they'd be packing up tonight.''
 Tayari Kwa Salaam, 56, a consultant for several nonprofit groups, is back even though her paying clients are not. ''For me, this is the most Afrocentric city in the United States,'' she said. ''There's a way that we talk and way that we be that's just home.''
 Ms. Salaam, who describes herself as ''one level above poverty,'' said that although she fretted over the city's future, she immediately began looking for ways to return after evacuating to her daughter's home in Baltimore. ''Once we felt that chill in the air and it wasn't even autumn yet -- and just the people there,'' she said. ''It was generally cold.''
 Another quarter of those interviewed said they did not plan to return. The most common reason cited was fear of a repeat of last year's disaster.
 A smaller group said they had settled in and were happy in their new location.
 Those age 40 and older were almost twice as likely as the rest of the respondents to have already returned, and people in their 20's and 30's were more likely to say they were not going back.
 Denise Debouchel, 46, said that her husband was living in a trailer in St. Bernard Parish, which is just east of the city and suffered some of the worst destruction, and that she was still at her sister's home in North Carolina. Ms. Debouchel believes the levees will never be high enough to prevent another flood of Hurricane Katrina proportions.
 ''I just can't fathom going through this again,'' she said. ''It could be the end of my marriage.''
 Other families cited financial considerations and stability for their children. Deadra Ellis, 40, said she had found a job in San Antonio, her husband's job had transferred there, too, and the elder of her two children was settling into her new high school. The family would like to hold onto its house in eastern New Orleans, Ms. Ellis said, but insurance costs might prove too high. 
 ''We are all kind of homesick,'' she said. ''But I've been scanning the real estate listings -- nothing is there.''
 Some of the poorest people in New Orleans were not included in the project, in part because they did not have access to the database or posted the telephone numbers of emergency shelters where they left no forwarding information. Only about a third of the people who participated in the study spent any time in emergency shelters, and even fewer sought refuge at the Superdome or the convention center.
 More than one in 10 of the respondents said they were homeless or needed a permanent place to live. Although three out of five said they were depressed, and many reported symptoms like trouble sleeping or edginess, only one in five said they had talked to a therapist or counselor since the hurricane.
 Nearly half were living in a house or apartment rented after the hurricane, while about a fifth were living in the same home as before the storm. Almost another fifth were living in someone else's home.
 Attitudes about how the city should be rebuilt were complex, with many who want to return saying they would prefer a different neighborhood to the one they left. Nearly 9 out of 10 said protecting the city from flooding was worth a significant outlay of federal money, with almost as many saying that even low-lying areas should be rebuilt along with an improved levee system. 
 But asked if people should be able to live in those areas, 3 in 10 said the land should instead be returned to marsh.
 As with race, income levels seemed to be a determining factor in how people fared. Those with household incomes over $30,000 a year were more likely to have evacuated before the hurricane as those who made less. They were also more likely to have stayed in a hotel or motel.
 About 7 out of 10 respondents rated the Red Cross and FEMA as very or somewhat helpful, but the respondents were overwhelmingly critical of the local, state and federal government's response to the hurricane.
 More than two-thirds disapprove of how President Bush and Congress are handling the response to Hurricane Katrina. Almost as many are critical of Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco's response, and more than half disapprove of Mayor C. Ray Nagin, who is up for re-election in April. But among Mr. Bush, Ms. Blanco and Mr. Nagin, more people approved of Mr. Nagin's response, by a wide margin.
 Some shared the opinion of Reuben Friedman, 59, a retired lawyer who said that officials did the best they could in an unparalleled disaster.
 ''I'm not so much critical of their post-Katrina conduct as I am the failure to properly design and maintain the levees, which I think led directly to the loss of life and property,'' Mr. Friedman said.
 Many of the black evacuees said the poor response was at least in part due to race. About half called race a major factor in the government's slow response. By contrast, almost three-quarters of the white evacuees said race was not a factor at all.
 In follow-up interviews, some evacuees said the city had the potential to be better than it was before the storm, but others worried about the city's unique culture because the poor black residents who are a crucial part of it were having the most difficulty returning. Many expressed frustration about what they perceived as a lack of clear instructions about where or whether they could rebuild.
 ''We're kind of left in limbo,'' Mr. Rodrigue said. ''So we can't move forward and we can't move back.''

How the Study Was Conducted
 The New York Times study of Hurricane Katrina evacuees was based on interviews with 337 people who left the New Orleans area in the wake of the storm. Interviews were conducted by telephone Feb. 16 to March 3. 
 A sample was drawn from an online database created by the International Committee of the Red Cross. It was the main public repository for those seeking to locate friends and family members affected by the hurricane, and those who wanted to let others know they had survived the hurricane.
 The database remained on the Internet for months after the hurricane for anyone to examine.
 More than 160,000 unique names were entered into the database. For those without computer access, or unfamiliar with using a computer, volunteers helped the victims. 
 The New York Times used that publicly available database and randomly selected names for this study, interviewing only adults who had evacuated from the New Orleans area. The Red Cross was not involved in the project. 
 The study differs from a scientific survey in that the total population of evacuees is unknown and therefore could not be sampled precisely or randomly. 
 Three of every five of those interviewed lived in New Orleans before the hurricane; the rest are originally from the area surrounding the city. Almost two-thirds of the study's participants were black and about a third were white -- similar to Census Bureau figures for the city's population. But the participants were older and slightly more likely to be women than the city's population. (The precise racial, age and sex breakdown of all evacuees is not known.) 
 Because the answers from the 337 respondents in the study cannot be projected to a definable population, no margin of sampling error can be calculated. For that reason, the accompanying article avoids giving specific figures in most cases. 
 Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its analysis. Complete questions are available at nytimes.com/katrina.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''New Orleans is in my blood
it's in my genes,'' said Jacob Mitchell of the Upper Ninth Ward, who now lives with his daughter in Slidell, La. (Photo by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Scott Frischhertz, 41, and his family have moved back to their home in Kenner, La., a New Orleans suburb. They were supposed to live in a FEMA trailer while Mr. Frischhertz, a musician, repaired the house, but they did not get a key. Top, Mr. Frischhertz's daughter, Amanda, right, with a friend, Katie Casadaban, in her newly plasterboarded room. The stray dog the family adopted after the storm is in the doorway. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); SUBURBS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Housing; Labor; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Shaila Dewan; Marjorie Connelly; Andrew W Lehren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



468 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: City to Add 800 To Police Force By Summer '07

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and SEWELL CHAN; Kareem Fahim contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The New York Police Department, the largest in the nation, will add 800 police officers to its force of roughly 37,000 in its largest city-financed expansion since 1993, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday.
 The increase will allow officials to devote more police officers to regular patrols as well as to initiatives like Operation Impact, which floods high-crime neighborhoods with more officers; a new push to clear the streets of illegal guns; and continuing antiterrorism efforts. But even when the expansion is in place by the summer of 2007, the department will still be smaller than it was before Sept. 11, 2001.
The mayor and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said the expansion was not in reaction to any early trouble signs this year in the city's crime rate, which Mr. Kelly said was down 3 percent over all in 2006. 
 Rather, they said it was largely meant to address demographic trends: the city believes its population has grown by 125,000 since 2001 and is expected to increase by 200,000 more in the next five years. That would be the equivalent of ''adding the entire city of Pittsburgh to the five boroughs,'' the mayor said. 
 ''We must face the reality that as our population grows and as terrorism remains a threat, making the safest big city in America even safer requires additional resources,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at City Hall yesterday in announcing the expansion.
 The expansion marks the first time in Mr. Bloomberg's mayoralty that he has increased the size of the force. He cut more than 3,600 officers' positions during his first term through attrition while contending with a huge budget gap, and 1,000 other officers were assigned to counterterrorism. 
 During the fall election campaign, Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, was criticized by Democratic rivals for allowing the department to shrink, and City Council leaders have continually pressed for a larger force.
 Peter F. Vallone Jr., chairman of the Council's Public Safety Committee, echoed the tenor of last fall's criticisms in a statement yesterday, saying, ''Now we get to see what Commissioner Kelly can do with his team at full strength.'' He said that the Police Department had been ''stretched to their limits.''
 When the expansion is complete, the Police Department will have 37,838 uniformed officers' positions. While that is an official increase of 800, Mr. Bloomberg said there would ultimately be 1,200 more police officers on the street because the city is also hiring an additional 400 civilian employees who will relieve officers in desk jobs.
 Though the force is currently authorized for 37,038 officers, there were actually only about 36,450 yesterday; the total changes every few days because of retirements and resignations and because new officers generally enter only twice a year, in January and July. 
 Even after all the new hiring is done, the uniformed police force will remain below its level before the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, and certainly well below its peak of 40,800 police officers in 2000. 
 And even Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Kelly have acknowledged that hiring itself could pose something of a challenge under a new starting base salary set by a contract arbitrator last year at $28,900, annualized, for first-year recruits. They are paid at a rate of $25,100 a year for the first six months, while they are in training, and $32,700 for the next 12 months, when they are on patrol.
 Not only by maintaining historically low crime rates but also by using its own money to finance the increase, New York City may be bucking national trends.
 ''It's safe to say that big-city police departments are not substantially growing: the spending boom of the Clinton administration has passed, local governments are in tough financial conditions, and the share of federal money that is going to local law enforcement is shrinking,'' said David M. Kennedy, director of the Center for Crime Prevention and Control at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who noted that some past hiring pushes had been partly financed by federal grants.
 For example, Chief William J. Bratton of Los Angeles, who was the New York City police commissioner from 1994 to 1996, has been pushing to hire more officers, largely without success, Mr. Kennedy said.
 At City Council hearings yesterday, the city's district attorneys broadly welcomed the news of the Police Department hires, though a few noted that additional arrests generated by the new officers would almost certainly strain the already thin resources in their offices. 
 The district attorneys and the Council seemed caught off guard by the news, of which there was no hint beforehand from the mayor and his aides: Mr. Bloomberg had not included the money for the expansion -- $33.8 million in the 2007 fiscal year, rising to $80 million by the 2010 fiscal year -- in the preliminary budget he released in January. 
 Officials said yesterday's announcement was a result of better-than-expected tax revenues, a new call from the mayor to get illegal guns off the streets and, most important, a continuing population boom that ultimately calls for a larger police force.
 Mr. Bloomberg has kept an intensive focus on decreasing crime throughout his mayoralty. He and his team reveled in disproving predictions during their first term that crime rates would not go down further than they did during the tenure of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. Kelly indicated that he believed they could be taken down still more.
 Mr. Bloomberg noted yesterday that crime had fallen nearly 25 percent since 2001, and that there had been four consecutive years in which the number of homicides was fewer than 600, saying it was something ''no one ever imagined possible.''
 Also, keeping crime from rising is extremely important to Mr. Bloomberg and his aides, who put a high value on New York's status as the nation's safest big city. ''Public safety is the foundation of economic progress and of our city's success,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 There have been 106 homicides so far this year, two more than in the same period last year, according to the police. Overall crime in the subways is down 36 percent. However, there have been more rapes reported so far this year, 396, than there were during the same period last year, when there were 346. 
 Thomas A. Reppetto, a longtime observer of the Police Department and author of several books on criminal justice, praised the timing of the expansion, coming as it does during a relative lull in crime. ''People are going to say, 'Crime is down, so why can't we reduce the police force?' '' he said. ''In the past, we've cut the police force, and crime went up considerably. When crime goes up, once it gets momentum, it's very hard to bring it down again.''
 Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Kelly said the move to increase the police force had not been prompted by any particular pattern of crimes. ''We don't need to wait for the cavalry, because we are the cavalry,'' said Mr. Kelly, who has been continually lobbying behind the scenes for an increase in his force.
 Mr. Bloomberg said the expansion was simply a prudent investment. 
 ''Our administration is trying to run this city intelligently, and not react, but to prospectively look and see what the needs of this city are going forward,'' the mayor said yesterday.
 Mr. Kelly said yesterday that the city was also adding 286 school safety agents. He also said the department would install 505 closed-circuit television cameras in 253 locations throughout the city, starting in Brooklyn, using $9.1 million in federal homeland-security grants. Some cameras may be installed in Operation Impact areas, where street crimes are highest, a police spokesman said. 
 ''In this day and age, where you have the dual mission of fighting and continuing to reduce crime, and to combat terrorism, where we are probably the No. 1 target in the world, you cannot reduce your police force,'' said Robert J. McGuire, the city's police commissioner from 1978 to 1983. ''It just goes without saying.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced plans to expand the police force yesterday at City Hall. They said the decision was based on projections of population increases. (Photo by Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''A Larger Force''The Police Department plans to add 800 officers to the force.Graph tracks N.Y.C. police officers since 1997.Bars show total authorized number of officers by fiscal year. 2007 is a projection based on increases announced yesterday.(Source by New York City Police Department)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); TRENDS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); BUDGETS (64%) Police; Crime and Criminals; Terrorism; Hiring and Promotion; Police

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Jim Rutenberg; Sewell Chan; Raymond W (Comr) Kelly; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



469 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: In Race to Lead Alabama, It's Politics as Unusual

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: ARLEY, Ala., March 18 

 BODY:
Lt. Gov. Lucy Baxley, surrounded by a knot of supporters wearing ''We Love Lucy'' stickers, was the first to arrive at the 47th annual Arley chitlin supper on Friday, shaking hands in the blustery cold outside the Meek Elementary School gymnasium.
 One indication of the wild nature of the Alabama governor's race, just now getting under way in earnest, is that Ms. Baxley -- bubbly, 68, with a folksy manner and a perfect helmet of brunette hair -- is, by a substantial margin, the least colorful major candidate in the contest.
 ''Only in Alabama, I guess, would you have a combination of folks like we have this year,'' Ms. Baxley said. 
 Former Gov. Donald Siegelman, Ms. Baxley's leading opponent in the Democratic primary, arrived next, pushing through the crowded gymnasium behind a broad smile. Mr. Siegelman is under federal indictment on racketeering and conspiracy charges, something he never fails to mention, calling it a political vendetta by a Republican prosecutor and making it sound like a lucky break to be going to trial just weeks before the June 6 primary. 
 ''I'm not the slightest bit concerned,'' Mr. Siegelman said. ''We'll blow the doors off the barn with a high-profile acquittal. I'll take a week off with my family and then come back, campaign for a week, and win.''
 The current governor, Bob Riley, a Republican, just shrugged. ''What else is he going to say?'' he asked.
 The next candidate to arrive was Mr. Riley's chief primary opponent, Roy Moore, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court who became a hero to conservative Christians and drew national attention with his campaign to put a Ten Commandments monument in his courthouse, a drive that led to his being removed from office in 2003.
 Now, Mr. Moore specializes in reminding crowds about a hugely unpopular $1.2 billion tax increase proposed in 2003 by Mr. Riley. ''I am telling you, this race is about credibility,'' Mr. Moore said. ''This race is about accountability.''
 The governor was the last to arrive and made the longest transit around the teeming gym, shaking hands, posing for pictures and clasping voters on the shoulder. In some ways, he is in the most unlikely spot of all of them.
 When voters rejected Governor Riley's tax increase by a two-to-one ratio, many conservative leaders and political professionals declared his political career to be over. As recently as January 2005, Mr. Moore was handily beating him in the polls.
 But now, with memories fading and the state economy booming, Mr. Riley, who drew favorable notice for his handling of Hurricane Katrina, finds himself handily in the lead. Statewide polls conducted in February for The Mobile Register by a University of South Alabama research team found the governor not only leading Mr. Moore 56 percent to 28 percent, but also beating Ms. Baxley by 45 percent to 36 percent and Mr. Siegelman by 53 percent to 27 percent.
 ''It looks, at this point, as though Riley is going to win, but it absolutely promises to be a colorful march,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, who publishes his own nonpartisan political report in Washington and who was among those who declared Mr. Riley's career over two years ago.
 ''His resurrection fascinates me,'' Mr. Rothenberg said. ''And you've got Moore in the race, who's extremely colorful. Plus, one of the two serious Democrats is under indictment. In terms of circus atmosphere, it's at least a two-and-a-half ring circus down there.''
 Ms. Baxley pointed out that it was still early in the race. She had only recently begun regular campaign appearances, and the Arley chitlin dinner, which has become a magnet for political candidates, is by far the largest event of the race so far, she said.
 Stuffed into the school gymnasium in this small town about 45 miles northwest of Birmingham, in a remote, Republican-rich region of hills and lakes, were more than a dozen long tables where hundreds of people hunched over plates of chitlins (fried pig intestines) with coleslaw on the side or barbecued chicken, listening to four hours of political speeches interspersed with comedy routines, songs, hog-calling and two appearances by a local Elvis impersonator.
 (''A lot more people showed up this year,'' said the impersonator, Doug Lewis, as he puffed on a post-show cigarette in his black, spangled Elvis regalia. ''I guess it's because of the governor's race. You know, we like our politics down here in Alabama.'')
 Most of the candidates came into the hall, shook hands, performed a ritual circuit of the room and left. Mr. Moore took a seat amid a round table of admirers and picked at a plate of chicken, a Ten Commandments pin glistening on his lapel.
 ''I'm not worried about those polls,'' Mr. Moore said. ''Those are all distorted polls. I'm in exactly the same place in the race as I was when I ran for chief justice, and I won that one. Everything's just fine.''
 David J. Lanoue, chairman of the political science department at the University of Alabama, said Mr. Riley was fortunate to have made the biggest mistake of his governorship -- the proposed tax increase -- early in his term. ''Time heals all wounds,'' Mr. Lanoue said. ''He's been a much more mainstream conservative since then, rebuilding his bridges board by board.''
 Also, he said, the governor has been helped by Mr. Moore's inability to expand beyond his core constituency of conservative Christians. ''Moore seems to have hit a ceiling, and it's clearly slipping away from him,'' Mr. Lanoue said.
 As for the Democratic race, Mr. Lanoue said, ''the race is going to be all about Don Siegelman.''
 The conventional wisdom, he said, is that Ms. Baxley will win because she is ahead in the polls, has much support from the party establishment and her opponent is under indictment. But the race remains close, Mr. Lanoue said, because Mr. Siegelman is better known and has significant black support, and he may well pull out a victory.
 Mr. Siegelman, who narrowly lost to Mr. Riley in 2002, said he intended to make sure voters were aware of a link between the governor and the corruption scandal surrounding the Washington lobbyist Jack Abramoff by pointing out that while still a congressman, Mr. Riley had signed a letter urging voters to support an antigambling petition drafted by a group with ties to Mr. Abramoff.
 ''Alabama politics has always been a contact sport,'' Mr. Riley said. ''I think we all felt some of that tonight. But I'll tell you what, I'd rather be in the position we're in than in the position of any of my opponents.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Roy Moore, in tie, shaking hands, hopes to unseat Gov. Bob Riley, at right, who is leading in polls before the June 6 Republican primary election.
 Lt. Gov. Lucy Baxley, above left, autographed a shirt while her rival in the Democratic race, Donald Siegelman, posed with an Elvis impersonator. (Photographs by Dana Mixer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INDICTMENTS (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); TAX LAW (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); ACQUITTAL (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ETHICS (63%); RELIGION (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Elections; Primaries; Governors (US); Ethics; Election Issues

PERSON: BOB RILEY (89%) Rick Lyman; Roy S Moore; Bob (Gov) Riley; Donald Siegelman; Lucy (Lt Gov) Baxley

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



470 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Straight to Paperback: Literary Novels

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Knock-offs of ''The Da Vinci Code,'' made-up memoirs and accounts of life with ornery pets are selling tens of thousands of hardcover copies a week. But publishers say there is no harder sell in the world of books these days than literary fiction. 
 Even critically acclaimed literary novels often have a short shelf life in hardcover, with one-half to three-quarters of the books shipped to stores often being returned to the publisher, unsold.
That has a growing number of publishing companies, from smaller houses like Grove/Atlantic to giants like Random House, adopting a different business model, offering books by lesser-known authors only as ''paperback originals,'' forgoing the higher profits afforded by publishing a book in hardcover for a chance at attracting more buyers and a more sustained shelf life. 
 ''In the last four or five years, it's gotten hard to publish fiction by lesser-known authors, and even by some better-known authors,'' said Morgan Entrekin, the publisher of Grove/Atlantic. And when a book fails in hardcover, booksellers often will limit their orders for a paperback edition, making it harder to sell the author's next book. ''When you're taking back 50 to 70 percent of the hardcover copies you shipped,'' Mr. Entrekin said, ''the stores -- rightfully so -- are not willing to take another chance.'' 
 Mr. Entrekin recently revived a dormant imprint, Black Cat, to highlight his trade paperback originals. Last month, it released ''White Ghost Girls,'' a debut novel by Alice Greenway, in a paperback edition that included flaps on the paper cover and the ragged-edge pages that bespeak ''quality fiction.'' Other publishers, like HarperCollins, Simon & Schuster and Random House, have also been ramping up their efforts.
 ''It has been more of an evolution than a big jump,'' said Jane von Mehren, publisher of trade paperbacks at Random House. ''Getting somebody to spend $22 on a book by an author who they've never heard of is hard, but getting them to spend $13.95 on a paperback is much easier.''
 The paperback original is not an entirely new concept, of course. European publishing companies have been doing it for years; in the United States, Beat writers were often published only in paperback in the 1960's. Jay McInerney's ''Bright Lights, Big City,'' the seminal novel of the 1980's, was first released as a paperback in 1984 by Vintage Contemporaries, a Random House imprint. More recently, in 1999, Jhumpa Lahiri's volume of short stories, ''Interpreter of Maladies'' was released only in paperback by Houghton Mifflin's Mariner Books. It went on to win the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
 Still, the paperback-original format has been used relatively infrequent by publishers -- in part because it is often fought by authors and their agents, who are sometimes unwilling to give up the prestige and higher royalties from hardcover publication, as well as the chance for a second run in stores with a paperback. 
 Publishers have plowed ahead, however. Harper Perennial, the literary paperback imprint of HarperCollins, is planning to publish 22 paperback originals this year, up from 10 last year.
 ''We see it as a great opportunity to publish some young debut writers,'' said Carrie Kania, the publisher of Harper Perennial. She cited as an example Nick Laird, the husband of the British novelist Zadie Smith; his first novel, ''Utterly Monkey'' was published as a paperback original here in January. 
 ''Part of our strategy was that we believe Nick Laird is going to be a great writer, and we want to build him up,'' Ms. Kania said. ''That is hard to do when there is a lot of hardcover competition.''
 The economics of the decision to publish in hardcover or paperback are not simple. Publishers generally receive a wholesale price for new books that is about half of the retail cover price, or $13 for a hardcover book with a $26 jacket price. Thirty percent of the publisher's share, or 15 percent of the cover price, goes to the author as royalties, and another 40 percent of the publisher's take goes for the production, distribution, marketing and publicity costs of the book.
 That leaves about $3 to $4 a book for the publisher, before accounting for the cost of corporate overhead or the books that will be returned -- on which the publisher earns nothing.
 For paperbacks, authors generally earn only 7.5 percent of the cover price as a royalty. But the lower price also means publishers earn far less, about $1 to $2 a book, before returns. The advantage of paperback is that if a book proves to be even a modest seller, booksellers are less likely to return all of their copies, figuring they can stock a small number permanently on their shelves -- something they rarely do with hardcover books. 
 ''Book for book, you're obviously going to make more money on a hardcover,'' said Martin Asher, the editor in chief of Vintage/Anchor Books, part of Random House's Knopf Publishing Group. ''But you can usually sell two or more paperbacks for every hardcover, and when you bring in the question of building an audience for a new writer,'' the scale tips further in the paperback original's favor. 
 That was the calculation that led Vintage to schedule ''Pretty Little Dirty,'' the debut novel from Amanda Boyden, a New Orleans writer, as a paperback original this year. Billed as ''wonderfully dark, humorously heartfelt and deliriously drug-fueled,'' the novel, released last week, ''just struck me as the kind of book that would work in paperback,'' Mr. Asher said.
 The author agreed. In an interview, Ms. Boyden said she had a more lucrative offer from another publisher to print the novel in hardcover. But, she said, ''my husband and I were starving graduate students for so long that a good chunk of our bookshelves are taken up by Vintage paperbacks.'' She continued: ''So it was my decision to go with Vintage. And with what I think is the potential audience for this book, it made more sense to come out in paperback right away.''
 One longtime argument against paperback originals has been that book critics are less likely to review them. Several publishers say that has changed, citing what they described as a watershed event: the Feb. 6, 2005, review of ''Death of An Ordinary Man,'' by Glen Duncan, a paperback original book published by Mr. Entrekin's Black Cat imprint, which was featured on the front page of The New York Times Book Review.
 ''Historically, getting the books reviewed was a big concern for us,'' said Ms. Kania of Harper Perennial. ''But increasingly, paperback originals are being treated as new books.''
 Sam Tanenhaus, editor of The Times Book Review, says he believes reviewing paperback originals allows the publication to highlight books from smaller publishing houses. He notes that book galleys -- the prepublication copies that publishers send to reviewers to allow them to get a head start on reading -- always come to the Book Review as paperbacks, and that therefore the editors pay little attention to the format in which the book will be sold. 
 Mr. Tanenhaus notes that it is not only debut authors whose works are reviewed as paperback originals. An August 2004 review of ''Cloud Atlas'' drew attention to that book, the British author David Mitchell's third novel, which was published here as a paperback original by Random House. 
 Ms. von Mehren, the publisher, said that following the article in the Book Review, Mr. Mitchell's novel sold ''10 to 20 times better than he ever had here. It really reignited hiscareer.'' Next month, Random House will publish Mr. Mitchell's next novel, ''Black Swan Green.'' In hardcover.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Morgan Entrekin of Grove/Atlantic sees a ''paperback original'' niche. (Photo by Robert Caplin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (92%); PUBLISHING (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HARDCOVER PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BOOKSTORES (77%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Books and Literature

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Edward Wyatt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



471 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; THE CHEF: KEN SMITH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Plentiful Crab Meat, a Gift From the Gulf

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
AN ice cream scoop filled with pearly white crab meat might not seem like a much of a miracle, but in the kitchen at Upperline restaurant here, it is. 
 Six months after the hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit, many restaurants are still staggering to their feet. One bright light is an unexpected windfall in crab. The storms stirred up the marshes, shaking up lots of food. And because there weren't a lot of fishermen out in local waters in the first few post-Katrina months, the crabs had plenty of time to grow big and fat. When the fisherman returned to the waters, chefs started seeing the bounty.
As a result, crab meat is piled high atop crisp slices of sauteed Gulf fish at restaurants like Galatoire's. At Upperline, the chef Ken Smith fashions it into crab cakes so generous it seems like a sin to eat them.
 ''I want the diner to really enjoy a crab cake,'' he said. ''It's a luxury for people who have been through all of this.'' 
 JoAnn Clevenger, the owner of Upperline, reopened the restaurant in October. It is in the Garden District, which didn't flood. One of the first things Mr. Smith and Ms. Clevenger did was try to get as much local seafood and produce on the menu as they could find. The pickings were slim, but the crab meat wasn't. They offered it as a daily special atop the baby Gulf drum that was also showing up in the early months after the storms.
 ''It gave people such courage,'' Ms. Clevenger said. ''If the crab meat and the fish and the shrimp were coming in, then it meant we weren't completely helpless, that we could have something beautiful again.'' 
 Mr. Smith recently began turning the crab into pan-fried cakes, topping them with a beurre blanc made with Crystal hot sauce, the hometown favorite. And he used an unexpected binder: mashed potatoes. 
 ''The worse the mashed potatoes the better they'll be,'' said Mr. Smith. ''If the mashed potatoes are gluey, they'll be perfect.''
 The potatoes, gluey or not, provide just enough stickiness to hold the crab together, but leave no trace of potato taste or texture once the cakes are fried. The seasonings are designed to essentially get out of the way of the crab. Scallions, lemon and a dash each of salt and cayenne offer subtle support.
 The key to the mixing technique is a light touch, just combining the ingredients enough so you don't notice the mashed potato, Mr. Smith said. Either a large spatula or your hand will work. 
 Mr. Smith uses an ice cream scoop to gently mound the crab on a tray for chilling. In regions where tubs of lump crab meat are harder to come by or more expensive, a tablespoon might produce more economical portions.
 The real gem of the dish is the Crystal beurre blanc, an idea that mixes high French culinary canon with down-and-dirty New Orleans heat.
 Crystal Hot Sauce has long adorned many a table in New Orleans. It is more vinegary than Tabasco, which is too hot for Mr. Smith's recipe. Baumer Foods has been making Crystal Hot Sauce for 83 years. Its New Orleans plant was flooded so badly that it will not be reopened. Other bottlers are keeping Crystal on the shelves until the company can move into its new home, about a half hour's drive from its damaged New Orleans home.
 To serve the crab cakes, Mr. Smith sautes some spinach, places the cakes on top and pools the silky golden sauce around the plate. And just to make the dish really local, Ms. Clevenger has the waiters put a bottle of Crystal on the table with each order.
 ''It's sort of like putting the chocolate sauce on the side with dessert,'' she said. ''You have that luxury of just making that crab just as hot as you want.''

CRAB CAKES WITH CRYSTAL BEURRE BLANC
Adapted from Ken Smith
Time: 50 minutes plus 60 minutes' chilling

For the crab cakes:
1 pound jumbo lump crab meat
1/2 cup chopped scallion
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup mashed potatoes

For the Crystal beurre blanc:
6 tablespoons Crystal or other Louisiana-style hot sauce (do not use Tabasco)
1 large lemon, peeled, pith removed, and halved
2 tablespoons white wine
1/4 cup heavy cream
3/4 pound butter, chilled and cut into small pieces
Salt

For the spinach base (optional):
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 large onion, peeled and chopped
16-ounce bag baby spinach
Salt and freshly ground black pepper

For frying:
2 cups all-purpose flour
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 large eggs
2/3 cup milk
2 cups fine dry bread crumbs
Vegetable oil, as needed.

1. For the crab cakes: In a large bowl, combine all ingredients for crab cakes. Gently mix to combine. Using an ice cream scoop, make 8 balls and place on a baking sheet or large plate. Cover and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. (If crab is very fresh, this may be done a day ahead of time.)
2. For the Crystal beurre blanc: In a small saucepan, combine hot sauce, lemon and wine. Bring to boil over high heat, then simmer until reduced by a third, 3 to 4 minutes. Add cream and again reduce by a third, about 5 minutes. Lower heat and whisk in butter a few pieces at a time, making sure each addition is incorporated before adding next. Pour sauce through a fine-mesh strainer and add salt to taste. If desired, keep warm over a double-boiler.
3. For the spinach base: Place a large skillet over medium heat, and heat butter and olive oil in it. Add onion and saute until soft, about 5 minutes. Add spinach in batches, stirring and adding more until it all cooks down. Season to taste with salt and pepper, set aside and keep warm.
4. For frying: Line up three shallow bowls. Place flour in one and season to taste with salt and pepper. Place eggs and milk in the second bowl; beat until mixed. Put bread crumbs in the third. Pat crab cakes into thick disks, like oversize scallops. Dip each into flour mixture, then egg mixture, then roll in bread crumbs. Set on a plate and chill for 30 minutes.
5. Place a large saute pan or skillet over medium-high heat. Pour in enough oil to come 1/2 inch up side of pan. When oil shimmers, add crab cakes. Cook, turning once, until light golden brown on both sides, about 2 minutes a side. Transfer to paper towels to drain.
6. To serve, place a mound of spinach on each of four serving plates. Place 2 crab cakes next to spinach and pour sauce around them. If desired, serve with more hot sauce.

Yield: 4 servings.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about the New Orleans chef Ken Smith misidentified the neighborhood for his restaurant, Upperline. (The error also occurred in an article on March 8.) It is in Uptown, not the Garden District.
An article last Wednesday about the New Orleans chef Ken Smith misidentified the neighborhood for his restaurant, Upperline. (The error also occurred in an article on March 8.) It is in Uptown, not the Garden District.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOCAL FLAVOR MEETS FRENCH METHOD -- Because of an abundance of local crab, Ken Smith is making oversize crab cakes. Left, plenty of butter goes into his Crystal beurre blanc. (Photographs by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Recipes; Crabs; Fish and Other Marine Life

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Upperline (New Orleans Restaurant)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: Kim Severson; Ken Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



472 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: A 3rd Rise in Core Wholesale Prices Spurs Concern Over Inflation 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Prices at the wholesale level dropped unexpectedly in February, the Labor Department reported yesterday, but excluding the volatile food and energy sectors, the cost of goods increased, highlighting the potential for higher inflation later in the year. 
 Retreating food and energy prices drove down the Producer Price Index by 1.4 percent, the biggest monthly drop in almost three years, after increases of 0.3 percent in January and 0.6 percent in December. Energy prices fell 4.7 percent and food prices were down 2.7 percent.
But excluding food and energy, the core index was up 0.3 percent, as the price of drugs, magazines, machinery and jewelry jumped. The increase comes on top of a 0.4 percent rise in January and a 0.1 percent increase in December.
 Compared with February 2005, the index was up 3.7 percent last month and the core rate was up 1.7 percent.
 Unlike the Consumer Price Index, which is more widely reported, producer prices do not include taxes, subsidies or distribution costs. Economists view increases in wholesale prices as early indicators of broader inflation.
 Bond prices fell following the wholesale prices report as investors bet that inflation concerns would prompt the Federal Reserve to raise its benchmark short-term interest rate, now at 4.5 percent, at least twice more before stopping. 
 In recent months, analysts have registered concern about increases in the cost of raw materials, up 12.9 percent in February from a year earlier, and goods in intermediate stages of production, up 8.2 percent.
 So far, businesses have not passed those substantial cost increases on to consumers in the form of higher retail prices, and yesterday's report indicates that while the prices of raw material and intermediate goods eased somewhat in February, they remain high.
 In industries like transportation that are heavily dependent on energy, companies have raised prices, and a stronger economy may encourage others to do the same, analysts say.
 ''Inflation doesn't just happen, it bubbles up through a process,'' said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics, a consulting firm based in Ohio.
 Siemens, the German industrial conglomerate, has dealt with higher energy and other raw materials costs by reducing other costs; for example, it streamlined production lines at its lighting and automobile parts factories, said George C. Nolen, the chief executive of the company's American operations. But he said that it had become harder to find ways to offset the company's higher energy bill.
 ''Energy costs have been somewhat difficult to plan for,'' he said in a recent interview.
 The biggest drop in prices was in energy commodities: gasoline fell 11 percent and residential natural gas fell 4.1 percent. Prices also fell for a range of food, including fresh vegetables, down 27.1 percent; eggs, down 23.1 percent; and processed young chickens, down 8.2 percent.
 On the other side of the ledger, drug prices rose 0.7 percent, magazine subscriptions were up 2.3 percent and jewelry increased 1.5 percent. Notable price increases also occurred for a variety of industrial and commercial equipment, including ships, up 1.2 percent, and truck trailers, up 1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); INFLATION (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); POULTRY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BONDS (77%); DRUG PRICES (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BOND MARKETS (52%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Food; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (53%); SIE (LSE) (53%); SIE (FRA) (53%); SIE (BIT) (53%); SI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



473 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Making Space for a Biotech Center 

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: SKOKIE, Ill. 

 BODY:
The acquisition and subsequent redevelopment of a former Pfizer pharmaceutical research facility here by Forest City, the Cleveland-based developer, promises to quadruple the amount of speculative office space available for biotechnology companies in the Chicago area. 
 Forest City bought the one-million-square-foot complex last spring for $43 million. Since then, the company has demolished 9 of the 13 buildings on the 23-acre campus, leaving about 700,000 square feet of offices and laboratories. The company plans to build an additional 1.3 million square feet of new space, also for offices and labs, over the next 10 years. Over all, the project is expected to cost more than $500 million.
The goal, according to Gayle Blakeley Farris, president of the science and technology group of Forest City, is to create something that the company says is long overdue in Chicago: a biotech cluster similar to those in the high-tech bastions operating in the metropolitan areas around Boston and San Francisco. 
 ''We think there's an opportunity for Chicago to become the third coast for the biotech industry,'' Ms. Farris said. ''There are a number of major institutions here -- such as the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois and Northwestern University -- where important research is going on. But up until now, there hasn't been a critical mass of space available for companies seeking to capitalize on that research.'' 
 According to a recent study commissioned by Forest City, there is a shortage of speculative biotech office and laboratory space in Chicago. The city has about 500,000 square feet, much of it in incubator facilities owned by public entities like the State of Illinois. 
 By comparison, the areas around Boston and San Francisco -- the acknowledged leaders in the field -- each have more than 11 million square feet. But even much smaller cities like Madison, Wis., and Raleigh-Durham, N.C., outperform Chicago in this respect. 
 ''The lack of space has been a stumbling block,'' said David Miller, president of the Illinois Biotech Industry Organization, a local trade group. ''What has happened in the past is that a scientist could usually get a few thousand square feet of space from a university or a corporation to pursue a promising idea but the minute he or she got bigger and needed 10,000 or 20,000 square feet, it was a problem.''
 Scott Brandwein, senior managing director of the life sciences group of CB Richard Ellis, the national real estate services firm, which is assisting Forest City in leasing the Skokie center, agrees. ''There are very few options for companies coming into the market,'' he said. ''There's never been a speculative market here.''
 What speculative space is available generally leases for $20 to $30 a square foot. Forest City is hoping to do better than that -- about $30 to $40 a square foot -- for at least some of the newer space in the complex.
 ''We're targeting three types of tenants,'' said Michael Rosen, senior vice president for new business development for the center. ''The first is international companies in need of space for a U.S. headquarters, the second is companies that provide services to the pharmaceutical industry on a contract basis and the third is new companies that are ready to leave the incubators.''
 The facility currently is vacant except for the NanoBusiness Alliance, a trade organization for the nanotechnology industry, which has about 500 square feet. Mr. Rosen, however, said that Forest City expected to announce commitments for about 150,000 square feet of space soon. 
 One company looking at the project is Midwest BioResearch, a biotech start-up based in an incubator facility owned by Northwestern University in nearby Evanston.
 ''Our initial need is for 10,000 square feet but we could double that in a fairly short period of time,'' said Mark Weston, a business consultant who is advising the firm on real estate and financial issues. 
 Mr. Weston added, that, ''From the standpoint of networking, product innovation and creating new business, I think having a cluster of businesses in one location is important.'' The drawback, predictably, is rent. ''I think,'' said Mr. Weston, ''that both the lessee and the lessor will have to come together in the beginning to get tenants in.''
 Forest City is also hoping to receive a lift from this year's Biotechnology Industry Organization convention, which will be held next month in Chicago for the first time. The convention is expected to attract about 20,000 attendees. 
 The Skokie project is part of a general push by Forest City into the biotech market that began 20 years ago with the development of a 2.3-million-square-foot research park near the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. Over the last few years, the company has either developed or announced plans for similar projects in Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cleveland and Denver. 
 ''It's estimated that biotech will account for 15 percent of the G.D.P. by 2011,'' said Ms. Blakeley Farris. ''It's a huge market. In the long term, we want to be in all the major life science markets.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Forest City, the Cleveland-based developer, has acquired a former Pfizer research facility in Skokie, Ill. (Photo by William Zbaren for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%) Medicine and Health; Research; Biotechnology; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (91%); CBRE GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%) Pfizer Inc; Forest City Enterprises

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFEB (BRU) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%); CBG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: Robert Sharoff

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (52%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Skokie (Ill); Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



474 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Returns to Albany, And to Bolder Lawmakers

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Michael Cooper contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 21 

 BODY:
After a sick leave of more than a month, Gov. George E. Pataki returned to Albany on Tuesday to reassert himself on budget negotiations and attempt to rein in the election-year spending plans of the increasingly restive Legislature. 
 Looking noticeably thinner since his Feb. 16 appendectomy, Mr. Pataki said he was no longer receiving intravenous antibiotics, had begun eating solid foods again-- though not the beer and pizza he has long craved -- and was ready to get back to work. 
Mr. Pataki has never been an in-your-face kind of governor, but he was already a lame duck before his absence emboldened the Legislature. With 10 days left before the state's budget deadline, the Legislature has become increasingly assertive as election-year politics and a multibillion-dollar surplus have put them in the mood to give things to voters. 
 Certainly, Mr. Pataki got a brusque welcome back on Tuesday. The Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said at a press conference that the governor's Budget Division ''ought to go back to kindergarten and learn how to count.'' He was incensed by an estimate by Mr. Pataki's budget director that legislative budget proposals would lead to an $8 billion annual deficit by the fiscal year ending in March 2009, more than double the projected deficit that would be created by Mr. Pataki's budget. 
 ''The fact of the matter is the $8 billion he pulled from somewhere,'' Mr. Bruno said, ''and I'm not going to ask where.''
 Later in the day, the Democratic assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said, ''We're going to push a pre-K program so they'll be prepared for the Senate's kindergarten.''
 Mr. Pataki tried for an accommodating tone. ''Let me just say I'm very encouraged by the process that has gone forward thus far,'' he said. 
 ''But I do want to express my concerns. We still don't know the overall size of the budget the Legislature is looking at adopting,'' he added. Talking about its future effect, he added, ''We still don't know the impact it will have on the out-year gaps, and whether they're prepared to do some of the important reforms that I've advanced.''
 Mr. Pataki's $110.6 billion budget plan, first presented in January, could hardly be called austere, proposing tax cuts and new spending that outpaces inflation. But while he was convalescing, the Legislature's members began negotiating among themselves ways to enlarge the budget by rolling back many of Mr. Pataki's cuts, including nearly $1 billion out of Medicaid. The Assembly and Senate are aiming to wrap up negotiations by the end of the week. 
 Legislative leaders have been in contact with the governor by phone, and with his staff. They continue to argue that his expansive and unusual use of executive powers to unilaterally rewrite existing law, through budget bills, has become a major impediment. Mr. Bruno said Mr. Pataki was not being as ''flexible'' as he was last year, in terms of resubmitting budget bills with language that the Legislature can accept.
 ''We're not in the same place,'' Mr. Bruno said. ''So, we either have to get them to resubmit in a timely way, by this weekend, or we're going to do what we can to come to an agreement on the language that will be legal and acceptable to move the major portions of this budget into law.'' 
 Stumbling blocks include the governor's attempt to give local governments control over roughly $1 billion in federal aid for needy families, bypassing the Legislature, and his attempt to leave the formula for school funding to the discretion of his budget director.
 The Legislature also wants to alter the $500-per-child tax credit proposed by Mr. Pataki. Under that plan, those credits could be used for education expenses, including private or parochial school tuition, or for tutoring or other programs. Many legislators view the governor's tax credit plan as a form of school vouchers, and so the Legislature has proposed broadening the credits so they are not restricted to education expenses.
 ''I think that's wrong,'' Mr. Pataki said of the Legislature's proposal. ''One of the most important elements of the education tax credit is empowering parents to be directly involved with their child's education.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (71%); TAX LAW (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (56%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) 

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



475 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Black Men on the American Ladder

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 A complex array of factors has come together to produce high rates of unemployment and incarceration for young black men, but one cannot help but conclude that the racial dimension of the problem skews the public policy response. 
 Consider the national response to Depression-era poverty, a social ill that crossed racial lines.
 Major resources and political attention were devoted to W.P.A. job creation and construction of a safety net through Social Security. But as the image of poor people focuses on communities of color, the national response is one of wars on crime and drugs that emphasize harsh punishments over prevention and community-building. 
 One of every three black men born today can expect to go to prison if current trends continue. This is but one result of the crime policies of recent years that many political leaders tout as successful. 
 It is difficult to imagine such congratulatory messages being pronounced if we were talking about one in three white men.

Marc Mauer
Executive Director
The Sentencing Project
Washington, March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); SENTENCING (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); PRISONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Blacks; Men

ORGANIZATION: SENTENCING PROJECT (55%)

PERSON: Marc Mauer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



476 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: A Rare Takeover Attempt In Germany's Drug Industry 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 21 

 BODY:
Hubertus Erlen would rather talk about birth-control pills than poison pills. His company, Schering of Germany, is the world's largest maker of oral contraceptives, and it just won regulatory approval in the United States to market a new, lower-dose pill.
 At home, though, Schering has become the target of a takeover bid by a rival German pharmaceutical company, Merck. As Mr. Erlen, Schering's chief executive, scrambles to fend off the $17.7 billion offer, all the talk of poison pills, asset sales and possible competing bids by non-German companies is drowning out the news about Schering's product successes.
The takeover tussle is shaping up as a landmark battle in corporate Germany -- as well as an illustration of how far this country's once-mighty drug companies have fallen in an era of global giants.
 ''Our responsibility is to assess any bid that comes to the table, when it comes to the table,'' Mr. Erlen said in an interview at Schering's headquarters here. 
 But he said he was confident he could persuade his shareholders that Schering would be better off as an independent company.
 Hostile takeovers are rare here. But if this one goes through, analysts say, it could uncork a long-expected wave of consolidation among Germany's fragmented pharmaceutical companies. The deal could also, its proponents say, recapture some of Germany's lost glory.
 Once known as the world's pharmacy for inventing aspirin and other household drugs, Germany missed out on most of the blockbuster mergers of the last 15 years that created behemoths like Pfizer of the United States, GlaxoSmithKline of Britain and Sanofi-Aventis of France.
 As recently as two decades ago, the German companies Hoechst and Bayer were among the industry's biggest players. Now, Germany does not have a single drug company in the top 10. Its largest, the much-diminished Bayer, ranks 15th in sales, while Schering and Merck are 20th and 24th, respectively.
 ''The Germans were either too late or just didn't see the opportunities in larger companies,'' said Elisabeth Beck, an analyst in Frankfurt at IMS Health, a consultant to the pharmaceutical industry.
 ''German companies thought their dominant home market should be their first focus,'' she said. ''But globalization showed that you needed a strong presence in the U.S. market.''
 There is a distinct historic irony in this, given that Schering and Merck are themselves the forefathers of two major American drug makers, Merck & Company and Schering-Plough. Both became independent companies after the United States confiscated the American operations of their German parents -- Merck after World War I and Schering after World War II.
 Now, when Europe is being gripped by resurgent protectionism and economic nationalism, a potential Merck-Schering deal has quickly taken on political overtones. Merck, a family-owned company based in the southwestern German city of Darmstadt, is promoting the acquisition as a way to create a new German national champion in pharmaceuticals.
 Such an appeal strikes a chord with some German politicians, who watched with chagrin two years ago as Sanofi of France swallowed up Aventis, a French-German hybrid that had been created by the merger of Hoechst and its smaller French rival, Rhone-Poulenc.
 The French government threw its full weight behind that deal, rankling many Germans, who criticized their government for not doing more to prevent a famous German name from disappearing into a French empire. Sanofi-Aventis is now the world's No. 3 drug company.
 In a letter last week to Schering's employees, Merck's managers said, ''As we see it, there is no reason why Germany, traditionally home to many major pharmaceutical companies and a country that once enjoyed the reputation of being the 'world's pharmacy,' should not once again achieve prominence at the forefront of the global pharmaceutical market.''
 The company declined a request for an interview.
 Advisers to Merck, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they believed that Schering's shareholders would see the value of combining their companies at a time when the spiraling cost of research and development in new drugs was making it difficult for midsize players to compete.
 Merck's founding family has put up 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) to finance the bid. At 77 euros a share, however, analysts said the offer was too low. Schering's shares closed Tuesday at 83 euros ($101.07), suggesting that investors expect Merck to sweeten its offer.
 Merck picked the right moment to strike, Mr. Erlen conceded. Shares of Schering sagged last year after it reported poor trial results for a new cancer drug, PTK/ZK, that was supposed to slow the growth of tumors.
 Proponents of a deal assert that by joining with Merck, which has six cancer drugs in its pipeline, Schering would be less dependent on the success of a single product. Schering is also developing other cancer drugs, as well as treatments for Crohn's disease and Parkinson's disease. 
 ''A midsize company doesn't have the huge R.& D. machine of a Glaxo or a Pfizer. They simply can't afford it,'' said Keith Redpath, head of research at Wood Mackenzie, a consulting firm in Edinburgh, Scotland.
 Mr. Redpath said Merck and Schering complemented each other well: Schering has an international sales force, while Merck has focused on Europe. Merck has a big generic-drug business, while Schering focuses on brand-name drugs, like Betaferon, a treatment for multiple sclerosis.
 But for Mr. Erlen, those are precisely the reasons Schering does not need Merck. Schering is not interested in generics, he said, and it already has a foothold in fast-growing markets like China. As a specialized company, Schering would gain little from simply bulking up.
 ''There are pharma markets where size and muscle is decisive,'' he said, citing anticholesterol drugs as an example. ''But this is different. This is going to highly specialized doctors. It is not a question of marketing muscle. It is a question of being the expert in that field.''
 Sales representatives from Schering, he said, had visited virtually every gynecologist in the United States to promote its oral contraceptives, known as Yasmin. After a lengthy review, the Food and Drug Administration last week approved the sale of a low-dose version, called YAZ.
 Mr. Erlen, a 62-year-old engineer who has spent his career at Schering, is doing his best to rally the troops. He spoke to a gathering of 2,500 employees on Tuesday in Berlin. Employee leaders say they favor staying independent, and warn that Merck would lay off thousands of workers.
 Still, it is not clear how many options Mr. Erlen has. While there are hypothetical white knights, including Bayer and Novartis of Switzerland, none has yet emerged with an offer. Analysts said Schering could sell its diagnostic equipment business as a way to raise cash to fend off Merck.
 Schering could also go on the acquisition trail itself. Buying a company would act as a sort of poison pill by making Schering more expensive for Merck. Mr. Erlen, however, said Schering would not buy something just to make itself harder for a would-be buyer to swallow.
 ''Are we living in a world where size is a takeover protection?'' he said. ''With the amounts of liquidity that are around us?''
 Mr. Erlen concedes that the German pharmaceutical industry lost out in the last round of consolidation. But he says the proper response is not the pursuit of mergers that aim to create national champions.
 ''It is important to create global business champions in the markets where we are,'' he said, before heading off to huddle withhis bankers and lawyers. ''This is not a passport issue; this is a competitiveness issue.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hubertus Erlen, chief executive of Schering, discussed a takeover offer yesterday with 2,500 employees. (Photo by Henning Schacht for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); TAKEOVERS (92%); CONTRACEPTION (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); DIVESTITURES (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); MERGERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); WORLD WAR I (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%) Medicine and Health; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (86%); MERCK KGAA (84%); SANOFI SA (83%); PFIZER INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Schering Ag; Merck (German Co)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (86%); MRK (NYSE) (86%); MRK (FRA) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (83%); SANF (BIT) (83%); SAN (PAR) (83%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (83%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (86%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Hubertus Erlen; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (68%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



477 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slump as Investors Worry Rates Will Keep Rising

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks slumped for a second consecutive day yesterday as a speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and a report on producer prices suggested that interest rates would keep rising this year. 
 Homebuilders and utilities, among the companies most sensitive to higher rates, led the market's decline. The Oracle Corporation fell in response to its disclosure late Monday that sales of new databases trailed analysts' estimates.
 Prices slid initially after Mr. Bernanke said that low long-term rates did not signal a slowing economy and the Labor Department reported that wholesale prices, excluding food and energy, rose for a fourth consecutive month in February. Concern that the Fed will not stop raising rates soon thwarted a midday rebound. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 7.85 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,297.23, its biggest drop in two weeks. The Nasdaq composite index fell 19.88 points, or 0.86 percent, to 2,294.23. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 39.06 points, or 0.35 percent, to 11,235.47. 
 ''If there's any catalyst out there for equities, it's the Fed,'' said Mark Jordahl, chief investment officer at First American Funds in Minneapolis. ''A quarter or a half a point too much could be a policy mistake and slow the economy too much.'' 
 In the producer prices report, the Labor Department said the core rate of prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers rose 0.3 percent last month, after a 0.4 percent gain in January. Total wholesale prices fell 1.4 percent, the biggest drop in almost three years.
 The Fed will decide March 28 whether to raise its main interest rate for a 15th time. 
 In a speech Monday to the Economic Club of New York, his last scheduled appearance before that meeting, Mr. Bernanke said that he did not interpret the narrowing gap between short- and long-term rates as ''indicating a significant economic slowdown to come'' and that it might even reflect investors' confidence in the economy. Since 2002, equities ''have been cheaper in America than they have been in a quarter of a century'' relative to bonds, said Kenneth L. Fisher, chairman of Fisher Investments in Woodside, Calif. The Fed's effort to fight inflation ''keeps the equity market strong,'' Mr. Fisher said.
 Investors remain concerned, however, that higher interest rates will reduce demand for mortgages and other loans.
 D. R. Horton, the largest homebuilder in the country, slipped $1.06, to $32.35. All 16 homebuilders that are members of S.& P. indexes fell. 
 Oracle, which reported results after the close of trading Monday, fell 10 cents, to $13.62. The company said database license revenue, an indicator of future growth, was $827 million in the fiscal third quarter, short of analysts' estimates. 
 General Motors climbed $1.15, or 5.5 percent, to $22, for the best performance in the Dow average. The automaker and the Delphi Corporation were close to offering as many as 70,000 workers incentives to retire as part of a deal to cut costs, according to a labor analyst monitoring the talks. 
 The Jones Apparel Group rose $4.02, or 13 percent, to $34.84. The company, which makes Anne Klein clothes, said it had hired Goldman Sachs as an adviser and was exploring a sale of the company.
 In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year note was 4.72 percent, up from 4.66 percent late Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, was down15/32, to 98 9/32. 
 Following are the results for yesterday's auction of four-week Treasuries:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.642
High Rate: 4.600
Coupon Yield: 4.681
Low Rate: 4.550
Median Rate: 4.570
Total applied for: $51,206,007
Accepted: $28,748,746
Noncompetitive: $290,323

The four-week bills mature April 20, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); D R HORTON INC (58%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); DHI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); KENNETH FISHER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



478 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Upstate 'Looks Like Appalachia' to Spitzer, and He Has Plans to Fix It

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Michael Cooper contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SYRACUSE, March 21 

 BODY:
Days after he compared upstate New York's sputtering economy to Appalachia's, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democratic candidate for governor, spoke on Tuesday of his plans to revitalize upstate cities by revamping downtown areas and creating statewide programs for residential developments. 
 Although a few Republicans have said that likening Appalachia and upstate New York is an example of what they see as Mr. Spitzer's city-centric elitism, some champions of the area are welcoming the remark as a chance to draw attention to the dire conditions in Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse. 
And Mr. Spitzer did not back off from his analogy on Tuesday, displaying the unyielding attitude that his supporters call an asset and his detractors call a liability.
 ''People don't have to like metaphors, but they have to look at reality,'' Mr. Spitzer said on Tuesday, after a brief tour of a former warehouse here that is being converted to loft apartments. ''We have to look at fundamental issues. We have to deal with the population loss, with the continual decline.''
 Ten days ago, speaking at a Manhattan synagogue, Mr. Spitzer said, ''You drive from Schenectady over to Niagara Falls, you see an upstate economy that is devastated. It looks like Appalachia. This is not the New York we dream of.'' The comments were first reported in a column on the MarketWatch Web site. 
 According to the Business Council of New York State, at least some parts of Appalachia have fared better economically than upstate in some ways. Last year, the number of jobs in West Virginia increased by 1.4 percent, while the rate in the upstate counties was just 0.2 percent, said Robert B. Ward, the director of research for the council.
 In the 1990's, the population in Appalachia rose by 9 percent, compared with a 1 percent increase in the counties north of Westchester and Rockland, Mr. Ward said. ''Not only is it a fair comparison, but it is essential to focus people's attention to the very real problems upstate,'' Mr. Ward said. ''There are factories closing in Buffalo, New York, and at the same time factories going to Buffalo, West Virginia.'' 
 Gov. George E. Pataki, who spoke in Albany on Tuesday for the first time since undergoing an appendectomy last month, said that Mr. Spitzer's comparison was ''really unfortunate and certainly insulting to the hard-working people of upstate New York.''
 ''Appalachia doesn't have Empire Zones, it doesn't have Centers of Excellence,'' the Republican governor said, referring to current state economic programs. But he said that ''there are parts of New York State, particularly upstate, that do need more incentives, more packages.''
 Mr. Spitzer said the existing policies have had only spotty successes and are often bogged down by bureaucratic procedures that discourage developers.
 Though he stopped short of directly criticizing the governor, Mr. Spitzer said that current state programs fall far short of encouraging private investments across the state. 
 William F. Weld, the former Massachusetts governor, who is seeking the Republican nomination for governor of New York, also attacked Mr. Spitzer on Tuesday, calling the Appalachia remark ''at least borderline insulting.'' Mr. Weld criticized the economic proposals as well, saying that they would only increase state spending. 
 ''If you truly want to persuade businesses to expand or remain upstate, you need a specific economic plan that reduces the costs of doing business, not demoralizing rhetoric and calls for bigger government,'' Mr. Weld said in a statement. 
 Mr. Spitzer's detail-dense 30-minute speech focused on finer points of economic development -- he spent several minutes talking about ways he would put into effect the Brownfields Cleanup Law, legislation passed in 2003 to encourage redevelopment on former industrial sights. 
 Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Spitzer received a warm reception from a crowd of 150 at Syracuse University.
 ''We're all tired of seeing this area bleeding,'' said Mark Glauser, a professor of engineering. ''Finally, there is recognition of that, even from the New York City folks.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Eliot Spitzer campaigned for governor in Rochester. He was also in Syracuse, where he talked about reviving upstate areas. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); CITIES (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Jennifer Medina; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (93%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Appalachian Region

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006



479 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words

 BODY:

In Sweeping Deal With Union, G.M. Offers Buyout Packages to Workers
General Motors reached a landmark agreement with the United Automobile Workers intended to sharply reduce the ranks of an entire generation of autoworkers long envied by other blue-collar workers for their rich wages and benefits. G.M. said it would offer buyouts and early retirement packages -- ranging from $35,000 to $140,000 -- to every one of its 113,000 unionized workers in the United States who agrees to leave the company. [Page A1.] 


For G.M. workers who once thought they were set for life, the buyouts may well represent the first real gamble of their careers: Do they stay with G.M. and hope for a turnaround or take the money and run? [C4.]

China Seeks to Win Over Visiting Senators
China is responding with respectful attention to the visit of two United States senators who have attacked the country for its economic policies. The reason seems clear: At a time of rising economic nationalism in the United States, China fears that a bill drafted by the senators to impose a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese exports to the United States has a chance to upend economic relations between the world's richest nation and its fastest-growing rival. [C1.]

China announced plans to increase existing taxes and impose new ones for everything from gas-guzzling vehicles to chopsticks. [C6.]

Ex-Enron Treasurer Contradicts Founder's Claims
Ben F. Glisan Jr., Enron's former treasurer, delivered stinging testimony that refuted claims made by Kenneth L. Lay, the company's founder, that he was unaware of Enron's crumbling financial picture and did not know about some of the illicit side deals involving top managers. [C1.]

Bertelsmann Results Strong Amid Talk of Public Offer
Bertelsmann, the global media empire, reported upbeat financial results, propelled by pop-culture sensations like the singer Kelly Clarkson and Dan Brown's thriller, ''The Da Vinci Code.'' At the same time, senior executives turned away a barrage of questions about how the company would respond to a plan by a minority shareholder, Groupe Bruxelles Lambert, to push for an initial public offering, possibly later this year. [C1.]

Morgan Stanley Reports 17% Quarterly Profit Gain
Morgan Stanley reported a 17 percent increase in first-quarter profit as the firm's increased focus on riskier trading strategies began to pay off. But the results, while surpassing expectations, showed continued weakness in the firm's retail and asset management businesses. [C3.]

Microsoft Offers Technical Support to Rivals
Microsoft offered to give rival software companies unlimited technical support to help them develop programs that work smoothly with the Windows operating system, the company's latest effort to comply with a European Commission order and avoid daily fines of up to 2 million euros. [C6.]

Samsung Executives to Plead Guilty in Price-Fixing Case
Three executives of Samsung, the Korean electronics company, have agreed to plead guilty and serve prison sentences in the United States for their roles in a price-fixing conspiracy, federal prosecutors said. [C11.]

Study Finds Value in Multiple Depression Treatments
Some people with depression who do not recover with an initial course of antidepressant therapy can increase their chances of finding relief by trying other drug treatments, researchers are reporting. The study is the most extensive ever of people undergoing multiple treatments for depression. [A20.]

Dow Reaches Highest Level in Nearly 5 Years
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 81.96 points, to 11,317.43, its highest level in almost five years, as the outlook for corporate earnings improved. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.81 points, to 1,305.04. The Nasdaq composite index gained 9.12 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2303.35. [C11.]

Interpublic Group Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss
The Interpublic group of advertising companies, struggling since 2002 with financial and operational problems, posted a loss for the fourth quarter and restated results for the first three quarters of 2005, which reduced revenue by $14.1 million. It also disclosed that its controller and chief accounting officer, Nicholas S. Cyprus, would leave after less than two years. But an optimistic note from the chief executive, along with the news that an Interpublic media agency, Initiative, had won an assignment from CBS, seemed to resonate with investors more than a recitation of the company's latest woes. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

KPMG Revises Settlement With Shelter Investors
KPMG said that it had reached a revised settlement with tax shelter investors, but warned that the reduced agreement could still fall apart. [C3.]

British Broadcaster Says It Opposes a Buyout Plan
ITV, the biggest commercial broadcaster in Britain, said that it had rejected an approach from a group of buyout firms, under which a former head of the BBC would take over as ITV's chief executive. [C12.]

Fearing F.C.C. Reaction, WB Censors New Drama
Concerned about the recent decision by the Federal Communications Commission to fine television networks for material deemed indecent, the WB network will broadcast a new drama next week, ''The Bedford Diaries,'' that it has censored over the objections of the program's creator. [E1.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Interpublic share price closes since February 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (62%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (62%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GROUPE BRUXELLES LAMBERT SA (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: GBLB (BRU) (63%); EAI (FRA) (63%); GM (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



480 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Who Will Work the Farms?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Wanted: Legal Would Be Nice, but Illegal Will Suffice

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

DATELINE: KINSTON, N.C. 

 BODY:
In the plainspoken manner common to her fellow farmers, Faylene Whitaker has a message for members of Congress struggling to overhaul the nation's immigration law.
 ''We would rather use legal workers,'' said Ms. Whitaker, who grows tobacco, tomatoes and other crops on the 500-acre farm she and her husband own in the Piedmont region of North Carolina. But ''if we don't get a reasonable guest worker program we are going to hire illegals.''
 Ms. Whitaker knows what she is talking about. Indeed, she is one of the few farmers in the United States to employ legal immigrant guest workers. Others are not exactly lining up to join the program.
 The experience of farmers like Ms. Whitaker underscores why most experts say that simply tightening the border with Mexico will not work. 
 To curb illegal immigration, they say, the government needs both carrots and sticks: legal work channels for future immigrants and the current population of workers unlawfully in the country along with a much more effective bar against hiring illegal labor.
 ''The punch line is, guest workers are going to cost you more money,'' said Phil Martin, professor of agricultural and resource economics at the University of California, Davis. For a guest worker program to work, he added, ''the prerequisite is you have to have illegal immigration under control.''
 When immigration rules were last overhauled in 1986 -- legalizing more than three million unlawful immigrants and supposedly banning the employment of illegal workers in the future -- Congress allowed for a vast seasonal guest worker plan. It was intended to ensure that farmers could continue to get the cheaper foreign labor they wanted, but in a legally acceptable way. 
 It has not worked out. Despite expectations that growers would flock to the guest worker program, named H-2A, it never took off: fewer than 25,000 farm workers came to the United States on temporary guest worker visas in 2004, the last year with figures available.
 It is not as if growers do not need the foreign labor: according to farmers' own estimates, about 70 percent of the 1.2 million hired workers tilling fields and picking crops are illegal immigrants. 
 What went wrong? Despite the ostensible sanctions against businesses that hire illegal workers, few employers were ever punished. So rather than go through the more complex process of importing temporary workers legally, most chose the cheaper and generally risk-free route of hiring illegal migrants who presented themselves with forged papers. 
 Congress is once again debating how to cut off illegal immigration but this time it has to deal with as many as 11 million unlawful immigrants in the United States.
 Some lawmakers are talking about erecting a high wall along the entire 2,000-mile border separating the United States from Mexico. Others are pushing to declare all immigrants here illegally felons who would never be allowed to take up legal residence in the United States. 
 But as long as the government looks the other way while employers are allowed to fill their demands for cheap labor from a deep pool of foreigners desperate to find work, hundreds of thousands more are expected to manage one way or another to cross the border illegally every year in search of jobs. 
 ''If there is a need for workers, they will find a way in, if you don't have a method for satisfying the legitimate needs of American employers,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican from Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, which has been trying to hammer out a new immigration bill to present to the full Senate as early as next Monday.
 But this time, Mr. Specter added, any new law must contain tougher sanctions against an employer who ''knowingly hires someone that is not here legally.''
 Like most employers of cheap labor, North Carolina's growers say they need immigrant workers to stay afloat. ''We need a guest worker program because somebody's got to work,'' said Kendall Hill, who grows tobacco, sweet potatoes and other crops on 4,000 acres here in Kinston. 
 He gazes across the flat dirt of his farm toward the sheds that will house up to 120 immigrant H-2A workers at the peak of the sweet potato harvest in September. ''If not for Mexican workers,'' he adds, ''this country would be in chaos.''
 As for illegal immigrants, many say that they would welcome a plan that allowed them to work legally in the United States and return to their families in Mexico every year.
 Arturo Martinez Mendoza, an illegal immigrant harvesting mustard for $1.25 a box on a farm near Faison, said he had even tried to get into the program. ''It was full,'' he said, ''so I came in as a wetback.'' 
 Jose Aharon Rivera Medrano, an H-2A worker from Mexico's northern state of Durango, has worked on Mr. Hill's farm 10 months each year for the last 11 years. He is happy about the higher wages of $500 to $600 a week he receives under the guest worker program than if he were working illegally, but the most important thing, he said, ''is that you don't risk your life crossing the border.''
 According to Leticia Zavala, southern organizing director for the union known as the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, there is a waiting list of 17,000 Mexican workers who have come to North Carolina in the past and would like to return. 
 But the guest worker program has failed to bridge the gap between the farmers and the workers. Farmers complain that the program is simply too expensive. It sets a floor for pay -- a regional average of the wages in several farm occupations -- that will rise this year to $8.51 an hour from $8.24 in 2005. Farmers must also house the workers and pay workers' compensation. 
 Moreover, after a lawsuit spearheaded by the union against North Carolina growers, a state court ordered farmers to pay all recruitment costs, including the H-2A visa, recruiters' fees and round-trip transportation from home -- adding up to some $900 a worker.
 ''I've been 10 years on the program but I'm reaching the point of diminishing returns,'' said Sam Crews, who employs six guest workers on his North Carolina tobacco farm near the border with Virginia. 
 The guest worker plan has some advantages for growers: legal workers are more dependable than illegal ones, they say. And it relieves them of any lingering fears that their harvest might be in jeopardy if immigration authorities conduct raids that disrupt the supply of illegal workers. 
 Yet growers have so many other complaints about the program that many are simply dropping out. To be entitled to use guest workers, they must certify to the Labor Department that they cannot find American workers for the job, a process that they say is overly onerous.
 And once non-H-2A immigrant workers are brought out of the shadows, farmers who employ legal guest workers often find themselves being sued over working conditions by immigrants' rights groups and other foes of the program.
 Bruce Goldstein, executive director of the Farm Workers Justice Fund in Washington, which has brought lawsuits against farmers, says there are good reasons for such lawsuits.
 ''Farmers under the H-2A program are being sued when they violate the law,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''They frequently violate the law. And employers have tremendous bargaining power over workers who are too fearful to challenge unfair or illegal conduct.''
 For many farmers, then, illegal immigrants simply provide a cheaper alternative that involves far less bother than the guest worker program. North Carolina farmers can harvest their crops paying $6 to $6.50 an hour -- no workers comp, no recruitment fees -- to ''green card'' workers or ''otherwise documented'' workers. Those are euphemisms for immigrants unlawfully in the United States, who typically show up with a fake green card to get a job. 
 ''Workers provide us with ID and Social Security cards to keep me in compliance and keep them in compliance, but I have no clue of their provenance,'' said one Wilson County tobacco, cotton and sweet potato farmer who spoke only on condition of anonymity to avoid exposing his work force to scrutiny from the authorities.
 Farmers in North Carolina still employ more legal guest workers than in any other state, but their numbers are dwindling. At their peak in 2000, over 1,000 farmers in the growers' association employed 10,000 guest workers. This year, about 500 farmers are left, and they will import only about 5,000 workers.
 Some of those missing farmers were driven out by increased competition in the global tobacco market. Others have simply switched to illegal immigrant workers. And if things do not change, many farmers say, the system may well disappear altogether.
 ''When the H-2A program prices itself out, I'm not growing anything else,'' said Lee Whicker, who employs a dozen guest workers on his tobacco farm near Fayetteville. ''I'm done with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Mexican flag hangs in Duplin County, N.C. Arturo Martinez Mendoza, middle, is an illegal immigrant, while Jose Aharon Rivera Medrano has ''guest'' status. (Photographs by Karen Tam for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 ''We need a guest worker program because somebody's got to work,'' said Kendall Hill, who farms 4,000 acres in Kinston, N.C. (Photo by Karen Tam for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Graph shows:AVERAGE ANNUAL ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS in 2004526,000 est.WORKERS ENTERING ON H-2A VISAS in 200422,141(Sources by Pew Hispanic Center, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); FOREIGN LABOR (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); FARM LABOR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); SEASONAL WORKERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (68%) Agriculture; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees; Migrant Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Farmers; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; Phil (Prof) Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%) United States; Mexico; North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



481 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Jury Told Lay Lied On Enron 

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 22 

 BODY:
In seven weeks of court testimony, prosecutors landed only glancing blows against Kenneth L. Lay, a former chief executive of Enron who is on trial for criminal conspiracy and fraud. Mr. Lay's luck may have run out in Week 8. 
 Ben F. Glisan Jr., Enron's former treasurer, delivered stinging testimony on Wednesday that contradicted Mr. Lay's claims that he had been unaware of the company's crumbling financial picture and had not known about some of the illicit side deals involving top managers.
In a full day of questioning by prosecutors, Mr. Glisan said that Mr. Lay had lied to credit-rating agencies, employees and Wall Street analysts about the company's performance and need for more urgent action, even as he participated in internal discussions with managers about what to do about Enron's ''dire'' financial situation.
 Mr. Glisan offered the strongest testimony yet that there was a criminal conspiracy at Enron involving Mr. Lay; Jeffrey K. Skilling, also a former Enron chief executive; and other top managers to manipulate earnings and mislead investors about mounting problems. 
 Mr. Glisan described one previously undisclosed meeting in which, he said, Mr. Lay had refused to accept his resignation when he admitted making a $1 million profit in a kickback scheme set up by a former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow. Mr. Lay's response, Mr. Glisan testified, had been that his participation in the scheme, known as the Southampton deal, was ''O.K.'' and that it would be the ''worst'' time for him to resign.
 A few weeks later, Mr. Glisan was fired, along with another Enron employee who had participated in the scheme.
 Mr. Glisan first took the stand late Tuesday in a much-anticipated appearance. Mr. Glisan, 40, is the government's last major witness in the trial of Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay, who are accused of conspiring to defraud Enron while enriching themselves. 
 Mr. Glisan's appearance was considered critical because, like Mr. Fastow, his former boss, who testified earlier in the trial, Mr. Glisan was in the inner circle of top decision makers at Enron. 
 Mr. Glisan was also deeply involved in trying to rein in the mounting credit and liquidity crisis that enveloped the company in the four months before it collapsed into bankruptcy.
 But unlike Mr. Fastow or any other major witness who has testified, Mr. Glisan could end up being the crucial witness in the trial. That is because Mr. Glisan, the only major Enron figure who has already been sentenced, is under no obligation to testify. He is unlikely to receive any consideration, like a shorter sentence, from the government in return for his testimony. He is on furlough from a minimum-security prison in Beaumont, Tex., while testifying.
 He has served more than half of a five-year sentence. He pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit fraud through his work on the Raptors financing vehicles, which he admitted were used to burnish Enron's financial statements by hiding hundreds of millions of dollars of losses. 
 Mr. Glisan also provided strong testimony on Wednesday against Mr. Skilling. He said Mr. Fastow had told him that Mr. Skilling had signed off on ''bear hug'' side deals, guarantees that off-the-books partnerships would not lose money by investing in Enron assets -- deals that helped Enron meet its earnings targets.
 Mr. Glisan also said Mr. Fastow had discussed with him a three-page ''Global Galactic'' document that supposedly recorded the side deals with Mr. Skilling and others.
 Mr. Glisan pleaded guilty to one count of a 26-count indictment and is testifying under an immunity agreement. On Wednesday, he admitted other crimes, including participating in the Southampton partnership. He recounted how Mr. Fastow had turned Mr. Glisan's $5,826 investment into a $1 million profit in just two months. He said Mr. Fastow had assuaged his concerns about the propriety of the deal by saying it had been cleared with Mr. Skilling. Later, when the $1 million check was wired into his account, Mr. Glisan said, he knew the deal ''did not make sense.''
 But Mr. Glisan did not do anything about it, choosing out of greed, he said, to stay silent and consider the payment as compensation for his work on the Raptors transactions, which Mr. Fastow had credited with helping burnish Mr. Fastow's reputation as chief financial officer.
 Finally, after Mr. Fastow was forced to resign in large part because of his participation in off-the-books partnerships, Mr. Glisan was concerned enough, he said, to tell Mr. Lay about Southampton and offer to resign. ''His response was I shouldn't, that my participation was O.K. and the worst thing I could do is resign.''
 But lawyers from outside the company continued to look into the deals, and by Nov. 7 Mr. Glisan had been forced to resign.
 ''I deeply regret'' the Southampton deal, he said. But he said he regretted other actions more, actions that ''affected Enron investors far more greatly.''
 Those included the Raptors transactions, which Mr. Glisan said he designed in 2000 to help Enron improve its reported earnings by hiding losses. Mr. Glisan said he fully described the Raptors to Mr. Skilling in two meetings in the spring of 2000. Mr. Skilling then took the idea to the board's finance committee for approval. 
 Mr. Glisan said he expressed his own reservations that the structures would not survive scrutiny by outside accountants. But, he said, Mr. Skilling said it was not a device he would normally recommend, ''except that it would allow us to circumvent accounting rules.''
 Mr. Glisan said he had told the finance committee that the Raptors had ''no economic value.'' But when Mr. Lay heard of their potential to help Enron meet its earnings, Mr. Glisan said, he giggled ''in delight.''
 Also on Wednesday, Mr. Glisan testified about the many problems facing Enron just as Mr. Skilling was resigning as chief executive in August 2001. By then, Mr. Glisan said, both Mr. Skilling and Mr. Lay knew Enron's international assets contained $1 billion in embedded losses.
 Mr. Glisan testified that after Mr. Skilling resigned, Mr. Lay and the new Enron president, Greg Whalley, asked Mr. Glisan to look into how large a write-off of the troubled assets the company could take without affecting its credit rating, critical to Enron's ability to continue to borrow and do business as an energy trader. Mr. Glisan came back with a $1 billion figure, he said.
 ''It was backward,'' he said. ''We should have taken the charges we needed to take and deal with the consequences with our ratings agencies.''
 Then, on Sept. 6 and 7, managers met at a retreat just outside Houston. The retreat soon devolved into an agonizing discussion about Enron's deepening problems, including the overvalued international assets, about $1 billion in losses in the broadband unit and another $1 billion in losses in Azurix, a division that had unsuccessfully tried to push the company into the global water business.
 A discussion among business unit managers became so depressing that one manager, John Lavorato, who headed the wholesale energy unit, sarcastically said that ''he was glad he didn't have a gun or he would shoot himself,'' Mr. Glisan said.
 ''It was ugly,'' Mr. Glisan said. ''We were struggling greatly.''
 The managers also debated the use of ''aggressive accounting,'' Mr. Glisan said. Mr. Lavorato suggested that Enron was using it far too often and that its auditor, Arthur Andersen, ''should not be the standard and would agree to anything,'' Mr. Glisan testified. 
 Richard A. Causey, the chief accounting officer, grew upset, saying that he, not the accounting firm, was the standard, and that Mr. Lavorato's unit had benefited the most through use of ''the most aggressive accounting at the company.''
 Mr. Lay, also at the retreat, defended the use of structured finance transactions like the LJM partnership and the Raptors, saying, ''They are imperative for us to hit our numbers and we will continue to do them.''
 A month later, in October, Mr. Lay tried to assure employees at a large meeting that Enron would not rely on such transactions anymore, that ''plain vanilla is just fine,'' statements that Mr. Glisan said were misleading.
 Also that October, with credit rating agencies threatening to downgrade Enron's bonds, Mr. Lay personally assured Ronald Barone, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, that Enron would not write down any more assets beyond a planned $1 billion write-down. But Mr. Glisan said that Mr. Lay knew that several international assets, including power plants in India and Brazil, still needed to be written down soon.
 Mr. Glisan said Mr. Lay had also lied to Mr. Barone about the nature of a $1.2 billion shareholder equity reduction. Mr. Lay had asked Mr. Glisan earlier how the charge should be characterized, and, on advice from Mr. Causey, Mr. Glisan said, they ''constructed the story'' to report the reduction as an unwinding of the Raptor transactions rather than the truth-- that it was a result of an accounting error -- to avoid scrutiny in the market.
 ''I understand, that makes perfect sense,'' Mr. Lay said, according to Mr. Glisan. ''That's why I asked the question.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben F. Glisan Jr., the former treasurer of Enron, arrived at the courthouse in Houston yesterday for a full day on the witness stand. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); SENTENCING (89%); WITNESSES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); ETHICS (66%); PRISONS (60%); CREDIT BUREAUS (55%) Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Ben F Jr Glisan; Kenneth L Lay; Alexei Barrionuevo; Jeffrey K Skilling

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



482 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: China Tries to Charm Couple of Senate Skeptics

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 22 

 BODY:
Global Times, a tabloid newspaper in China's capital, usually offers its readers a rich diet of nationalist propaganda on subjects like Japanese war crimes and American hegemony. 
 So it is telling that it devoted its front page on Tuesday to respectful, even admiring, coverage of the China visit of two United States senators, Charles E. Schumer of New York and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who have attacked Beijing for ''illegal currency manipulation,'' ''mercantilism'' and ''failure to play by the rules.''
The senators, the paper said, ''have sent a positive signal by coming to China to see for themselves.''
 ''It is not like earlier times when members of Congress relied on hearsay or their own imagination when they criticized China,'' the article said. 
 With a banquet in the Great Hall of the People, a roster of top-level meetings and fawning attention in the state-run press, China wants to win over Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham. 
 The reason seems clear: At a time of rising economic nationalism in the United States, highlighted by the rejection of the Dubai ports deal, the Beijing leadership fears that a bill drafted by the senators to impose a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese exports to the United States has a chance to become law. That would upend economic relations between the world's richest nation and its fastest-growing rival.
 The bill would impose the tariffs unless Beijing substantially revalued its currency, the yuan, which critics say the government keeps artificially low. It has met firm opposition from some business leaders and economists, who say they fear a trade war, but it garnered 67 votes in a nonbinding tally in the Senate recently and may come up for a formal vote as soon as March 31.
 ''They know it's for real,'' Mr. Schumer said before a private dinner with China's central bank governor on Wednesday evening. ''Believe me, the people who are seeing us wouldn't be seeing us if they didn't think it's for real.''
 The bill and the senators' high-level reception are among the signs that Chinese-American economic relations have become fraught with tensions that trade experts and members of Congress say are the most politically volatile since the fight over China's entry to the World Trade Organization in the late 1990's.
 The Bush administration has warned China that its big trade surplus with the United States and industrial-scale violations of American trademarks and copyrights threaten the nations' fast-growing trade ties.
 Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, who will visit China next week, said that unless steps were taken to address American complaints soon, ''the administration and the American people may be forced to reassess our bilateral relationship.''
 Members of Congress have raised the alarm about China's threat to United States manufacturers and workers many times before. But Bush administration officials say the potential for a sustained protest has grown in tandem with China's rising economic power.
 China's trade surplus with the United States hit $201 billion last year, a record for any trading partner and an increase of 24 percent from 2004. 
 Beijing has controlled its currency within a narrow band around 8 yuan to the dollar, a level that critics say gives it an artificial trade advantage. Despite American pressure, China has allowed its currency to appreciate just 3 percent since it broke a formal, fixed peg to the dollar last July.
 China is defending itself against the onslaught, but gingerly. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, meeting a group of foreign business leaders this week, urged them to convey the message that ''it is unfair for the U.S. to scapegoat China for its own structural problems,'' according to people who attended the meeting.
 But Mr. Wen and other top leaders are also trying to improve the atmosphere before President Hu Jintao's first official visit to the United States, scheduled for mid-April. They have promised to tighten enforcement of intellectual property rights and to move steadily toward a more market-driven exchange rate for the yuan, also called the renminbi.
 One test of whether Beijing can tame protectionist pressures will be the five-day trip by Mr. Schumer, a Democrat, and Mr. Graham, a Republican, which ends Saturday. The two were joined by Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican, who supports their tariff bill.
 The senators declined to say if they had heard anything during their trip to change their minds about the bill. But Mr. Graham said he was ''very impressed'' with a presentation by a senior economic planner on Wednesday. Mr. Schumer said he had picked up signals ''that they are taking the currency where it needs to go, though I'm not sure if they will get there fast enough.''
 Neither senator has much experience in economic diplomacy. They are lawyers who were not widely noted for their focus on trade, currencies or China before introducing the tariff bill. 
 Mr. Schumer says his trip to Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong is not only the first time he has visited China, but also the first time he has taken an official trip abroad in his 25 years in Congress.
 ''I'm a homebody,'' he said. ''But somebody has the right to ask, How can you do this if you don't come to China? So we came to China.''
 Beijing's reaction to their request was cool at first, they said. Mr. Graham joked that of China's 1.3 billion people, ''All of them were out of town the week of our visit.'' Their visas did not come through until shortly before they planned to travel.
 But then China laid out a red carpet. They were treated to a banquet in the Hong Kong Room of the Great Hall of the People, the sprawling Stalinist-style meeting hall in Tiananmen Square. They were served dishes that Mr. Schumer, who says his favorite Washington restaurant is Hunan Dynasty on Capitol Hill, pronounced ''extraordinary, just extraordinary.''
 Though they did not get time with Mr. Hu or Mr. Wen, the list of top officials who agreed to meet them is expansive, especially for visitors who do not meet the Chinese leadership's preference for ''old friends,'' or people who have proved sensitive to the Communist Party's interests. 
 Li Zhaoxing, the foreign minister; Wu Yi, a vice premier and the chief economic troubleshooter; Zhou Xiaochuan, the central bank governor; and Bo Xilai, the commerce minister, are among those on their schedule.
 The general sentiment in Beijing is that the threat of the Schumer-Graham tariff can still be headed off. A high tariff would result in ''unaccountable losses'' to the American economy, because consumers and businesses depend on cheap Chinese imports, said Liu Baocheng, of the Sino-U.S. School of International Management at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing. 
 But after the collapse of the Dubai deal, which Mr. Schumer helped bring about, and the failure last summer of a major Chinese energy company's bid to take over the American oil company Unocal, China has grown fearful of surging economic nationalism in the United States.
 Mr. Liu said the decision to play host to Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham took a page from China's courtship of Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. ''He was once an advocate of the China threat, but a visit to China turned him into an opponent of that theory,'' Mr. Liu told The Beijing Morning News.
 Much of what the senators were told by government leaders appears to be a recitation of themes -- China's mounting internal social problems, its desire to move toward a fully convertible currency, itsplans to stimulate domestic consumption -- that officials have repeated many times in recent months. But Mr. Schumer said: ''They're not just mouthing it. They really believe it.''
 On Wednesday they got a presentation on currency reform from Zhu Zhixin, a top official of the National Development and Reform Commission, a central planning body. 
 Mr. Schumer said he had pressed Mr. Zhu to address the imbalances between the United States, which is thought to consume beyond its means, and China, which is thought to consume too little relative to its rising wealth. The official pulled out a page from China's newly enacted 11th five-year plan that made the same point.
 ''It was a golden moment for us,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''He said this was the right way to go. They just had to figure out how to get there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Coburn, left, Lindsey Graham and Charles E. Schumer in Beijing. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); WAR CRIMES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); TRENDS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); TRADE DISPUTES (65%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Law and Legislation; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: Global Times (Chinese Newspaper)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (90%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (56%); TOM COBURN (56%) Joseph Kahn; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Lindsey (Sen) Graham

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China; United States; China

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



483 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: German Leader Nears the End of Her Political Honeymoon 

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 22 

 BODY:
Call her the emerging star of European politics, but also ask: Will Germany let it last?
 With personal approval ratings of about 75 percent at home and expressions of admiration from places as far apart as Washington and Moscow, Chancellor Angela Merkel has clearly made an extremely good impression in the four months since she took office.
 Her ratings are especially impressive given that she ran such a lackluster campaign last year that she almost lost a national election she had been expected to win by a large margin. This inauspicious beginning forced her into a coalition with the Social Democrats, the main left-of-center rival of her Christian Democrats. 
 But Mrs. Merkel, the first woman to serve as chancellor, has used her first months to project an image of good sense and quiet competence, and the mood in Germany is probably better than it has been in several years. Consumer confidence is up, and the conspicuous gloom that afflicted the last months of Ms. Merkel's predecessor, Gerhard Schroder, has been lifting.
 Yet there is a strong feeling that Mrs. Merkel's popularity is not so much because she is showing strength and determination as Germany's leader, but rather because of her decision to advance very little in the way of a bold domestic agenda. That may be about to change.
 Three German states have elections on Sunday, after which Mrs. Merkel is expected to start her campaign to win major changes, tackling such chronic problems as high unemployment, economic stagnation and government deficits that exceed norms set for Germany's membership in the European Currency Union. That is when the political storm will stir.
 ''She has done a good job insofar as she hasn't made any mistakes,'' said Uwe Andersen, a political science professor at Ruhr University in Bochum. ''But we'll have to see how she does on the really big reforms after the state elections before we can judge if she is doing well in a positive sense, rather than just not making mistakes.''
 So far Mrs. Merkel seems to have chosen to make her mark as a sort of super foreign minister, not as a domestic policy chieftain -- and in Germany, the foreign minister has always been popular. 
 ''Merkel still acts as if other people are responsible for the country's problems,'' the weekly magazine Der Spiegel wrote a few days ago. ''She still hasn't started to govern,'' the magazine continued, echoing an opinion widely voiced here.
 Reinhard Schlinkert, the chairman of the Institute for Market and Policy Research, citing poll numbers from late February, said, ''About two-thirds of Germans say she won't be able to manage unemployment, and two-thirds say she won't manage the country's financial problems. It's a very insecure situation. 
 ''Everybody hopes that the new coalition will do better for Germany, but the people have heard so many times that things will change that now they're sitting back and waiting for results.''
 Governing in a coalition with her formal rivals, the Social Democrats, is far from what Mrs. Merkel wanted when she campaigned for office last year. But the existence of the coalition and the paramount goal of keeping it strong and stable has protected her, at least in these early stages, from Germany's normal political squabbling.
 For one thing, Mrs. Merkel herself, bound by the compromise formulas of her coalition, could not have pressed a maximalist program for change even if she had wanted to. At the same time the Social Democrats, who would lose major parts of their labor union constituency if they supported maximalist changes, have been reluctant to criticize her, lest political infighting weaken the coalition.
 All that has given Mrs. Merkel a strong start, one that contrasts with the weakness of her counterparts in other European capitals. 
 The French are in an uproar, and President Jacques Chirac, in office for 11 years, is seen as a lame duck. The Italians' buccaneering prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, after five stormy years, is behind in the polls two and a half weeks before national elections. In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair has been beset by a long series of political battles and demands for him to cede his office to his colleague and rival in the Labor Party, Gordon Brown.
 Ahead of the state elections on Sunday, polls indicate that Mrs. Merkel's Christian Democrats will win two of them. In the third state, Rhineland-Palatinate, Mrs. Merkel is probably hoping to lose to Social Democrats, so they will not be tempted to rebel against their role in the national coalition.
 To start addressing perennial German economic problems, Mrs. Merkel will have to turn away from her concentration on foreign policy. In her first months in office, she spent a lot of time announcing herself to foreign partners, visiting Warsaw, Washington, Paris, London, Jerusalem and Moscow.
 In addition, only a few weeks after she took office, she played a central role in breaking an acrimonious stalemate over the budget of the European Union, which enhanced her standing at home as a figure to be contended with on the European scene.
 As the former Social Democratic Defense Minister Peter Struck said, referring to Mrs. Merkel's return from diplomatic triumph to face domestic reality, ''The red carpet time for Mrs. Merkel is over.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Angela Merkel has won good reviews in her first four months, but hard decisions loom. (Photo by Arnd Wiedgmann/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); MONETARY UNIONS (50%) Public Opinion; United States International Relations; Elections; Politics and Government 

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%) Richard Bernstein; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany; Russia; Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



484 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Rice Reduces Caribbean Ire, But Falls Short On Aid to Haiti

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, March 22 

 BODY:
After two days of meetings with Caribbean leaders, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appeared to have cooled some of their anger toward the United States but failed to persuade them to embrace the new government in Haiti, United States officials said Wednesday. 
 One goal of her visit here was to persuade the other Caribbean nations to take forceful steps to help the new Haitian government stabilize the country and deal with its crushing problems. What she got was a commitment to readmit Haiti to the Caribbean Community of nations and a vague promise to help Haiti in the future.
 ''Where do we go in the future?'' asked Fred Mitchell, the Bahamian foreign minister and chairman of the Caribbean Community. ''We remain engaged'' with Haiti ''and will continue to review the matter.''
 Relations between the United States and the Caribbean Community, known as Caricom, have been strained and embittered for two years, in part because of opposition here to the war in Iraq but also because of the role of the United States in Haiti. Many Caribbean leaders contend that the United States forced President Jean-Bertrand Aristide from power in 2004.
 Before this visit, Ms. Rice met twice with groups of Caribbean foreign ministers, once during an Organization of American States meeting last spring and again at the United Nations in September, but she and her aides said they realized that she had to come here to begin turning the situation around. ''We intend not just to continue our relationship but to deepen and broaden'' it, she said Wednesday at a news conference with Mr. Mitchell. Several of the Caribbean foreign ministers listened in the front row as she spoke. 
 A joint statement said Ms. Rice ''agreed to strengthen cooperation with a view to enhancing Caricom-U.S. relations.'' While language like that is common in such statements, United States officials said they were encouraged by the reception the Caribbean leaders gave Ms. Rice.
 One said, ''We are now on the same page.'' There was no indication, however, that the Caribbean leaders had softened their position on the war in Iraq.
 The United States officials were less pleased with commitments by Caricom countries to help Haiti. 
 ''I didn't hear them,'' a senior administration official said.
 At the news conference, Ms. Rice reminded the Caribbean leaders that ''we all have a tremendous stake in the development of a democratic Haiti that can be self-supporting.''
 If Haiti falls into chaos once again, she added, ''that can have an effect on this region and, in fact, an effect on the United States.''
 Rene Preval, who was elected president on Feb. 7, is to form a government this spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY & COMMON MARKET (94%); CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) Caribbean Community of Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%) Joel Brinkley; Jean-Bertrand Aristide; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (94%); IRAQ (92%); BAHAMAS (92%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



485 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: George Bush's Trillion-Dollar War

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Call it the trillion-dollar war.
 George W. Bush's war in Iraq was never supposed to be particularly expensive. Administration types tossed out numbers like $50 billion and $60 billion. When Lawrence Lindsey, the president's chief economic adviser, said the war was likely to cost $100 billion to $200 billion, he was fired.
Some in the White House tried to spread the fantasy that Iraqi oil revenues would pay for the war. Paul Wolfowitz, the former deputy defense secretary and a fanatical hawk, told Congress that Iraq was ''a country that can really finance its own reconstruction, and relatively soon.'' 
 The president and his hot-for-war associates were as wrong about the money as they were about the weapons of mass destruction.
 Now comes a study by Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist at Columbia University, and a colleague, Linda Bilmes of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, that estimates the ''true costs'' of the war at more than $1 trillion, and possibly more than $2 trillion.
 ''Even taking a conservative approach and assuming all U.S. troops return by 2010, we believe the true costs exceed a trillion dollars,'' the authors say. 
 The study was released earlier this year but has not gotten much publicity. The analysis by Professors Stiglitz and Bilmes goes beyond the immediate costs of combat operations to include other direct and indirect costs of the war that, in some cases, the government will have to shoulder for many years.
 These costs, the study says, ''include disability payments to veterans over the course of their lifetimes, the cost of replacing military equipment and munitions, which are being consumed at a faster-than-normal rate, the cost of medical treatment for returning Iraqi war veterans, particularly the more than 7,000 [service members] with brain, spinal, amputation and other serious injuries, and the cost of transporting returning troops back to their home bases.''
 The study also notes that Defense Department expenditures that were not directly appropriated for Iraq have grown by more than 5 percent since the war began. But a portion of that increase has been spent ''on support for the war in Iraq, including significantly higher recruitment costs, such as nearly doubling the number of recruiters, paying recruitment bonuses of up to $40,000 for new enlistees and paying special bonuses and other benefits, up to $150,000 for current Special Forces troops that re-enlist.''
 ''Another cost to the government,'' the study says, ''is the interest on the money that it has borrowed to finance the war.''
 Among the things taken into account by the study are some of the difficult-to-quantify but very real costs inflicted by the war on the American economy and society, such as the effect of the war on oil prices, and the economic loss that results from the many thousands of Americans wounded and killed in the war.
 The study does not address the substantial costs of the war borne by Iraq or by any other countries besides the United States.
 In an interview, Mr. Stiglitz said that about $560 billion, which is a little more than half of the study's conservative estimate of the cost of the war, would have been enough to ''fix'' Social Security for the next 75 years. If one were thinking in terms of promoting democracy in the Middle East, he said, the money being spent on the war would have been enough to finance a ''mega-mega-mega-Marshall Plan,'' which would have been ''so much more'' effective than the invasion of Iraq.
 It's not easy to explain just how much money $1 trillion really is. Imagine a stack of bills worth $1 million that is roughly six inches high. (Think big denominations -- a mix of $100 bills and $1,000 bills, mostly $1,000's.) If the six-inch stack were enlarged to the point where it was worth $1 billion, it would be as tall as the Washington Monument, about 500 feet. If it were worth $1 trillion, the stack would be 95 miles high.
 Ms. Bilmes said that the $1 trillion we're spending on Iraq amounts to about $10,000 for every household in the U.S.
 At his press conference on Tuesday, President Bush made it clear that whatever the cost, American forces would not be leaving Iraq soon. When asked whether a day would come when there were no U.S. forces in Iraq, he said that decision would be made by future presidents and future governments of Iraq.
 The meter's running. We're at a trillion dollars, and counting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); VETERANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); MILITARY RECRUITING (68%); WRITERS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (54%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush; Lawrence B Lindsey; Joseph E (Prof) Stiglitz; Linda Bilmes

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



486 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 81, Hitting Highest Level in Nearly Five Years

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose yesterday to its highest level in almost five years as the outlook for corporate earnings improved. 
 Auto stocks gained after General Motors' announcement of a plan to reduce labor costs through employee buyouts. Bristol-Myers Squibb surged after reaching a settlement to delay a generic version of its biggest-selling drug. Morgan Stanley rose as its profit beat analysts' estimates.
 Lower oil prices also helped stocks bounce back from the decline shares posted earlier in the week amid concern that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates to curb inflation. 
 The Dow average gained 81.96 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,317.43, the highest since May 2001. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,305.04.
 Technology stocks trailed the advance as a delay in the next version of Microsoft's Windows program led to the stock's biggest decline since July. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets 42 percent of its value from computer-related shares, gained 9.12 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,303.35.
 The market slid earlier this week as a speech by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and a report on producer prices rekindled interest rate concern. The central bank meets Tuesday to decide whether to raise a benchmark rate a 15th consecutive time.
 Stock indexes rebounded yesterday as investors chose to focus on the improving outlook for the auto and drug industries.
 G.M., the world's largest automaker, offered a one-time buyout to factory employees and reached an agreement with its biggest parts supplier, Delphi, to entice thousands more workers to retire. The deal with the United Automobile Workers reduces the chances of G.M.'s being sent into bankruptcy by a strike at Delphi.
 G.M. shares added only a penny, to $22.01, but shares of other companies involved in autos showed bigger gains. Lear, the largest supplier of auto-interior parts, rose 87 cents, to $18.18. Johnson Controls, the largest automotive-seat maker, rose 59 cents to $77.44. And Ford Motor gained 10 cents, to $8.15. 
 Bristol-Myers surged $2.41, or 11 percent, to $25.24, for the largest gain in the S.&P. 500. Bristol and Sanofi-Aventis reached a settlement with Apotex that keeps a generic version of the blood thinner Plavix off the market until 2011. Sanofi-Aventis American depository receipts gained $4.20, to $47.88. The Amex pharmaceutical index had its biggest jump since Jan. 3, climbing 2 percent.
 Morgan Stanley gained $1.53, to $61.94, after it said fiscal first-quarter net income rose 17 percent on revenue from buying and selling stocks and fixed-income securities. Per-share profit was $1.54 in the three months ended Feb. 28, exceeding the highest analyst estimate in a survey by Thomson Financial.
 Microsoft fell 59 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $27.15, for the worst performance in the Dow average, after the company announced that the Vista version of Windows would be delayed.
 Apple Computer, which makes computers that run on a different operating system, fell 14 cents, to $61.67. 
 Nike, the largest athletic-shoe maker, added $1.87, to $86.82. The company said fiscal third-quarter net income rose 19 percent as the new Air Max 360 sneaker helped increase United States sales. Profit for the quarter that ended Feb. 28 was $1.24 a share, exceeding the $1.10 average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson.
 About 11 stocks rose for every 4 that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Almost 1.49 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 9.8 percent fewer than the three-month average.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, to 98 14/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 4.70 percent, down from 4.72 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE INTERIORS MFG (87%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (87%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ANTICOAGULANTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (81%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (73%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (81%); SANF (BIT) (81%); SAN (PAR) (81%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (81%); BMY (NYSE) (73%); GM (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (73%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



487 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: In the Spirit of American Ingenuity

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Johannes Gutenberg jilted his fiancee. Guglielmo Marconi supported Mussolini. Even Bill Gates is socially inept.
 Likability has nothing to do with genius or creativity, which is just one of the reasons that ''American Inventor'' on ABC is so silly. The four judges base their choices as much on the aspirant's personality -- or pathos -- as the product, in large part because none of the inventions are innovative enough to stand out on their own.
 Then there is the beauty of a knockoff of a knockoff celebrating invention. ''Inventor,'' which was partly the creation of Simon Cowell, is an imitation of Fox's ''American Idol,'' which in turn was an adaptation of the British hit show ''Pop Idol.'' 
 This series is at best a watered-down ''Idol,'' yet the debut episode last week was a huge success. Normally, such shows reflect poorly on the taste of American viewers, but in this case, there could be a silver lining. If ''Inventor'' remains a hit, it must be because the competition speaks to the viewer's inner nerd: there must still be millions of people who tinker in their garages in search of a better mousetrap. (Either that, or Americans are a cruel people who cannot get enough of TV shows that torture the weak and deluded.)
 More popular than ever in its fifth season, ''Idol'' has become as hokily polished and professional as a 1960's variety show, a domestic version of the Eurovision Song Contest. It is entertaining, but not redeeming: we already know that we are a nation of pop impresarios. ''American Inventor,'' holds out the hope that there are other things we do well, and that old-fashioned American ingenuity is still alive. It is, but only up to a point. The number of patents obtained by independent inventors from the United States Patent and Trademark Office has been declining since 1999. 
 ''Idol'' begins with warm-up farce: early auditions seek out excruciatingly bad singers and showcase them in front of the judges before booting them out. ''Inventor'' follows the same formula, but even more cruelly. 
 ''Idol'' does not accept contestants older than 28, so viewers can at least console themselves that even the most pathetic failures can still find success in an easier field. Many would-be inventors, and quite a few are in their 50's, are dreamers who mortgaged their homes or wiped out their children's college funds to finance their follies -- sad sacks similar to those of Nathanael West's ''Miss Lonelyhearts.'' This is perhaps the influence of ABC, which has done extremely well with the weepy ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' and wanted a bit of that bathos in this show as well. But for every inspiring tale, there are several that merely appall.
 In the premiere, ''Inventor'' producers allowed Hector Ortega, a 52-year-old dental hygienist, to present his ''Bladder Buddy,'' a portable toilet for emergency use in public places (black garment bag with hidden pouches). And the series makes those ghastly moments even worse. Contestants are interviewed after the audition against a stark white backdrop that makes even the saner ones look Diane Arbus crazy. 
 ''Idol'' thrives on clashes on the panel of judges, and so does ''Inventor.'' Peter Jones, a British businessman and an executive producer and co-creator of the show, is a more genteel Simon Cowell. Mary Lou Quinlan, a marketing expert, takes on the soft-touch role of Paula Abdul, tearing up at the more heart-breaking tales. She has a different kind of meltdown on tonight's episode when one contestant demonstrates her invention: a piece of ribbon she calls the ''naughty knot,'' and rips it off a topless model. ''Where is your mother?'' Ms. Quinlan scolds as she throws her coat over the underdressed girl.
 Ms. Quinlan spars most often with Doug Hall, an inventor and chief executive of the Eureka! Ranch. (The series loves conflict -- at one point it showed Ms. Quinlan, between takes, as she called Mr. Hall by an expletive.) The fourth judge, Ed Evangelista, is an advertising executive. (The good news is that unlike Randy Jackson of ''Idol,'' Mr. Evangelista does not call himself ''dawg'' or other people ''dude.'') 
 ''Inventor,'' has a harder task than ''Idol.'' The show's finalists are given $50,000 to perfect their concoctions. The winner is awarded a million dollars. ''Idol'' contestants sing new songs each episode. Inventors cannot come back with new gadgets to show off. How the show will keep interest going in the contestants, and their homespun creations, is unclear. But as an issue, invention is quite topical. 
 ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future'' by the National Academies is just one of many recent reports raising the alarm that research and education in this country is in decline and that nations including India and China are poised to usurp America's leadership in innovation and job growth.
 ''Inventor'' traffics in two kinds of fantasy. Contestants get a shot at recognition and money. Viewers are allowed to dream that the American Century will still be going strong in the 21st.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two of the thousands of contestants who responded to the call for the hottest new invention. The winner will be awarded $1 million. (Photo by Jeff Neira/ABC)(pg. E10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); PATENTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: SIMON COWELL (57%) Alessandra Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



488 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Tagliabue Knows When to Fold 'Em

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
AFTER announcing that he would retire in July as commissioner of the N.F.L. after 17 years, Paul Tagliabue was taking questions Monday during his conference call with reporters when he was asked, if he could have one do-over, what would it be? He thought for a moment and said, ''I would have been able to dribble with my left better than I could.'' 
 Tagliabue was referring to when he was a 6-foot-5 basketball player at Georgetown whose average of 9.0 rebounds a game remains higher -- more than four decades later -- than that of two taller Georgetown legends, Alonzo Mourning and Dikembe Mutombo. 
After his private joke, Tagliabue quickly turned serious and acknowledged that as commissioner, he wished he had made certain that the Rams or the Raiders had stayed in the Los Angeles area rather than having their departures to St. Louis and Oakland turn it into pro football's open city. 
 But in assessing Tagliabue's reign, the teamless situation in Los Angeles is the only time he lost his left-hand dribble. When he succeeded Pete Rozelle as commissioner, Tagliabue was known only to pro football insiders as the N.F.L. lawyer who had fought Al Davis, the Raiders' relentlessly restless owner, and the upstart United States Football League, in the courts. But he soon was the commissioner who gilded the game that Rozelle had so smoothly sculpted into America's most popular sport. 
 Whatever Tagliabue did, he always did it quietly, never exposing the inner commissioner whose favorite athlete growing up in Jersey City was Jackie Robinson, whose favorite movie is ''Animal House,'' whose favorite tune is Kenny Rogers singing, ''You gotta know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em.'' And at 65, he now has folded his career as commissioner. 
 Just as Rozelle was the right man for the job in 1960 (moving the league offices to New York, developing league television packages and creating the Super Bowl with the merger with the American Football League), Tagliabue was the right man for the job in 1989, both on and off the field. 
 In getting 30 of the 32 often quarrelsome club owners to accept the recent seven-year collective bargaining agreement that maintained the salary cap and revenue sharing, and in negotiating the six-year, $24 billion television contracts that begin this year, Tagliabue solidified the league's labor and economic structure for whoever emerges as his successor. 
 Don't expect that successor to appear next week, when those often quarrelsome owners gather in Orlando, Fla., at the league's annual meeting. In pro football, electing a commissioner usually takes several months and several ballots. 
 After Rozelle retired, the favorite was Jim Finks, then the New Orleans Saints' general manager and the quarterback the Steelers kept when they cut Johnny Unitas, but Finks's support gradually faded. Tagliabue was finally chosen on the 11th ballot. After the death of Bert Bell, whose den in his suburban Philadelphia home was the league office, Rozelle, then the Los Angeles Rams' 33-year-old general manager, was a compromise candidate who was elected on the 23rd ballot. 
 The early candidates this time seem to be Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. executive vice president and chief operating officer who has toiled at Tagliabue's side, and Rich McKay, the Atlanta Falcons' president and general manager. 
 Based on Tagliabue's success as a league insider, Goodell is the early favorite. But the owners who sometimes disagreed with Tagliabue might not want a Tagliabue clone. 
 Other owners might prefer McKay, a football man who is the chairman of the league's rules-making competition committee and whose father was John McKay, the original coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. And from almost anywhere, another name or two surely will be thrown into the discussions when the owners begin deliberating. 
 When asked what challenges would confront his successor, Tagliabue cited the N.F.L.'s involvement in digital-media services, the Internet, international regular-season games and more stadium construction. He predicted that the face of professional sports would change more in the next 10 to 15 years than it has in the last 30 to 50 years. But his legacy is all of his contributions to the N.F.L. as we know it. 
 In addition to supervising labor peace and the television bonanzas, Tagliabue monitored the arrival of free agency and more than two-thirds of the teams' either playing in or constructing new stadiums financed partly by the league. The current average value of each franchise has been estimated at $800 million, up from $100 million when he took over. 
 On his watch, the N.F.L. expanded by four teams (Carolina, Jacksonville, Cleveland and Houston), extended the season to 16 games, split each conference into four divisions, thereby increasing the number of playoff teams to 12, added a Sunday night TV game, started a cable network, created an acceptable instant-replay system, hired more minority coaches, stiffened the drug-testing policy and prevented players (like Maurice Clarett) from entering the draft before they are at least three years out of high school. 
 In angrily apologizing for the surprise Janet Jackson moment during a Super Bowl halftime and demanding that ESPN cancel its fictional ''Playmakers'' series because of its racial stereotypes, Tagliabue also proved his sense of ethics. 
 Maybe he underestimated his left-hand dribble. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A Sports of The Times column on Thursday about Paul Tagliabue's decision to retire in July after 17 years as commissioner of the National Football League credited him incorrectly with one policy change. The extension of the regular season to 16 games occurred in 1978, when Pete Rozelle was commissioner.
A Sports of The Times column on Thursday about Paul Tagliabue's decision to retire in July after 17 years as commissioner of the National Football League credited him incorrectly with one policy change. The extension of the regular season to 16 games occurred in 1978, when Pete Rozelle was commissioner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS REVENUES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (83%); ST LOUIS RAMS (56%)

PERSON: Dave Anderson; Paul Tagliabue

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



489 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Small Business; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: When Good Investment Deals Go Bad

BYLINE: By ELLEN ROSEN

 BODY:
It's not quite 1999, but for entrepreneurs, the money is flowing again.
 ''It's a Goldilocks market -- it's not too hot, it's not too cold -- it's healthy,'' said James F. Fulton, a partner at the San Francisco law firm Cooley Godward who represents start-up technology companies and venture capital firms.
But, he added, ''we're not seeing the pendulum swing where entrepreneurs can write their own ticket,'' as was often true before the Internet bubble burst. 
 One thing has not changed -- money can come at a high price. The biggest problems, legal and financial specialists say, are deals that excessively dilute management's holdings in the company or require the company to cede too much control to the investor. 
 It is often a Hobson's choice, but when ''your company is running out of money, you want to get the most money at the best price,'' said George R. Garrick, the former president of Wine.com.
 Now, Mr. Garrick, along with the former chairman and other investors of Wine.com, has sued Baker Capital, a New York firm whose funds invested $17 million in Wine.com in 2004. 
 Today, a state court in San Francisco will hear arguments on Baker Capital's motion to dismiss the case on jurisdictional grounds. 
 The lawsuit, like two others filed in Silicon Valley in recent years involving Epinions.com and Nishan Systems, illustrates how seemingly good deals can go awry. And the details contained in the complaint, along with the documents filed in court, provide a glimpse of how relations with backers can sour.
 Wine.com is in many ways a typical Internet retailer. Incorporated in 1999, its concept was straightforward -- selling wine online. But as with so many online businesses, developing a dependable revenue stream took time. Mr. Garrick joined the company in 2004 as president with a mandate to raise money for expansion. 
 Because Wine.com is a private company, it does not publicly disclose its finances.
 Mr. Garrick said he met with the partners of Baker Capital, which manages a $1.1 billion technology fund, according to a recent filing in another court proceeding. As a result of its investment, Baker had the right to appoint two directors to the board of Wine.com, according to the complaint.
 Additionally, filings show, as part of the deal, the company gave Baker's investment funds the right to approve or reject any proposed merger or sale.
 According to Mr. Garrick, relations between management and the Baker representatives went smoothly until last year, when Wine.com ran short of cash. 
 At that time, the board decided that its best option was to sell the company, and it ultimately received a bid from Liberty Media for $67.5 million, according to a copy of an offer letter that was included in the complaint. Liberty Media did not return calls seeking comment.
 ''We had alternative sources of cash,'' Mr. Garrick recalled, ''but what we concluded was that our investors would do better to sell to Liberty.''
 He explained that the company's management weighed raising more money and keeping control of the company against selling, and ''calculated that if we continued to be independent and raise more money, the value to current investors would only be $25 million. But if Liberty bought us for $67 million, the investors would get more than twice that with no risk.''
 What happened next is at the heart of the dispute. According to Mr. Garrick, the board, including the two directors chosen by Baker Capital, liked the offer and voted to accept it. 
 But, he said, when the Baker Funds voted as shareholders, ''they blocked the deal.''
 ''At that point, we were out of time and we were in a distressed situation,'' Mr. Garrick said. ''The only option in lieu of bankruptcy was to get cash from Baker. They offered terms that were very favorable to them but onerous to the other investors.'' 
 Those terms included the dilution of the value of the existing investors' shares by 60 percent to 70 percent, said Ralph Alldredge, a partner in the San Francisco office of Preston Gates & Ellis who represents the plaintiffs.
 John C. Baker, the founder of Baker Capital, did not return calls seeking comment. But his lawyer, Mitchell A. Karlan, a partner in the New York office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, said the Liberty Media offer was not binding. 
 He added that there was ''never a board vote'' on the Liberty proposal ''because there was never an offer, only a very vague expression of interest.'' 
 He described the lawsuit as having a ''lack of merit'' and said by e-mail that ''Baker Capital saved Wine.com by providing it with needed funding at a time when no one else would do so.'' 
 Mr. Garrick subsequently left the company and last month became the chief executive of Jingle Networks, a company that provides free directory assistance services through 1-800-FREE411. Once again, he is raising capital. 
 ''The company is very popular and many are willing to invest,'' he said. ''We are working with people that we know and have done business with before.''
 In retrospect, Mr. Garrick said of the Wine.com situation: ''Our main mistake was to allow Baker to have a controlling vote over any situation. We needed the money and we thought they would do what is in the best interests of the shareholders.''
 Now sanguine about raising money, he suggests that those looking for investors should ''know who you're doing business with.''
 Or, as Jeffrey Sohl, a professor at the University of New Hampshire, said, ''While the venture capitalist and angel investor are doing due diligence on the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur should just as likely be performing due diligence on the angel and the venture capitalist.''
 It is also important, specialists say, to understand what a deal means giving up in exchange for money.
 ''Entrepreneurs sometimes sign agreements with either customers or development partners that have buried a term that can give away all rights to the entrepreneur's technology,'' said Mr. Fulton of Cooley Godward.
 The agreement, he pointed out, ''can be a lot broader or have more consequences than you thought.''
 Also, start-ups often sign deals with firms known as incubators that entitle them to ''20 percent of the proceeds of any sale,'' rather than limiting the proceeds to a number of shares. 
 This, Mr. Fulton said, means the investor has an interest that cannot be diluted by future investors and will just keep growing in value, regardless of what the investor actually does for the company.
 Over all, entrepreneurs should consider the quality of the partner along with the quality of the offer, said Edward M. Zimmerman, a partner at the law firm Lowenstein Sandler in Roseland, N.J. ''Instead of taking the best offer from a financial perspective,'' he said, ''understand if there is a good fit with an investor.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: George Garrick, right, the former president of Wine.com, is suing a onetime investor for blocking a deal. Now with another company, he says entrepreneurs need to ''know who you're doing business with.'' (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); ETHICS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); JURISDICTION (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); MERGERS (67%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); APPROVALS (65%); RETAILERS (63%) Ethics; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: COOLEY LLP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Wine.com (Co); Baker Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: George Garrick; Ellen Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



490 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Once Set for Life, Auto Workers May Have to Gamble

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., March 22 

 BODY:
For General Motors workers who once thought they were set for life, the buyouts the company offered Wednesday may well represent the first real gamble of their careers: Do they stay with G.M. and hope for a turnaround or take the money and run?
 Ron Linn, an electrician at G.M.'s Flint Truck Assembly plant, is taking his chances. Having just remarried and purchased a new house, Mr. Linn, 52, said he planned on working at least another five years before he retired. 
''A million dollars wouldn't be enough to get me to go,'' he said. ''A hundred thousand dollars, after they take out taxes, that ain't going to last long. That's not much incentive to retire early.''
 The question is whether his job will be around in five years.
 People like Mr. Linn, who has been with G.M. almost 29 years, are exactly the type of worker the company is hoping to entice with buyout offers. And his reluctance illustrates the difficulty the besieged automaker faces as it tries to pare down its factory work force by 30,000 over the next two years. The company is offering $35,000 in cash to employees who have already worked at G.M. for 30 years and are eligible to retire. 
 But Mr. Linn is among 27,000 workers at G.M. who are a few years away from retirement. For them, G.M. is offering a special plan that would pay up to $2,900 a month on top of their hourly wages, if they agree to retire as soon as they reach 30 years on the job.
 Mr. Linn, who on Wednesday afternoon sat at the counter at the Capitol Coney Island diner here drinking coffee after his shift, said he would rather stay in his job than accept a lump sum cash payment and re-enter the work force midcareer.
 Others would, too. Down the street at the Wooden Keg, a smoky, dimly lighted tavern across from the truck plant, Brian Kaufmann, 30, said he was not even considering leaving his job on the assembly line. 
 ''I think you're kind of short-changing people,'' he said, sipping beer out of a small round glass. ''You're putting a price on people's heads. I can't put a price on anybody's head.'' 
 Though Mr. Kaufmann said he thought staying at G.M. was risky -- with all the recent job cuts and plant closings and the uncertainty looming over what the United Automobile Workers might have to give up in next year's contract negotiations -- he said he would rather stay where he was than risk being unemployed. 
 Because he only has nine years on the job, by leaving he could walk away with as much as $70,000 if he agreed to give up everything but his pension. 
 Mr. Kaufmann was lucky to get hired at G.M. in the first place. About 80,000 people in Flint once worked for G.M., or more than one out of every two people here. Now, G.M. has only 15,000 workers left here, or about one in eight residents.
 ''There are no jobs out there for us,'' Mr. Kaufmann said. ''And it's hard to start over. Who wants to hire a washed-up 30-year-old G.M. worker?''
 But for other G.M. workers, uncertainties about the company's future are enough to persuade them to leave. 
 ''I'd sign the papers right now if I could,'' said Spanky Waldorp, a 48-year-old worker at the truck plant who was sitting at a table in the Wooden Keg playing Keno. His numbers did not come up -- all the more reason, he joked, to take a buyout. 
 ''I'm two years away from retirement,'' he said. ''And the way the company is going, who knows what's going to happen? As long as I'm getting something that's guaranteed, I'll take it. I mean, I could get laid off. This is a guarantee.''
 He could be offered as much as $2,800 a month on top of his hourly pay to retire once he reached the 30-year mark. ''We'd be fools not to take that,'' Mr. Waldorp said.
 Scott Shumaker, 45, said that after 27 years as a die maker for G.M., he was ready to try something else -- teaching, perhaps, or starting his own landscaping business. 
 He said he thought a buyout would give him that chance. 
 ''I've got a lot of things I'd like to do,'' he said. ''I may even go south and roof houses. There's a lot of money to be made, but not around here. A lot of guys, they were waiting to see what was going to happen. Now, I think there'll be a lot of people who are going to take it. A lot of them were going to go anyway.''
 Anne Forsberg, 71, retired from General Motors 15 years ago as an auditor in the Buick City complex here, a cluster of factories that once employed 20,000 workers, but now is mostly demolished. As she sat eating her lunch at a McDonald's down the street from the truck plant, she offered a message to younger workers contemplating a buyout: wait and see.
 ''If you're young enough, hang in there,'' she said. ''G.M. is going to come back. But if you're 45 or older, take the buyout because recovery is going to take a while. It always does.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about General Motors' plan to offer buyouts to all its union workers misstated one severance alternative. (The error also occurred in a Business Day article about the reaction of workers to the plan.) Employees nearing retirement who agree to leave the job immediately will receive up to $2,900 a month until they reach their 30th anniversary of service at G.M. They must agree to retire at that point and will receive full pension. They cannot continue working in the interim, and the money is not in addition to their regular pay.
A front-page article yesterday about General Motors' plan to offer buyouts to all its union workers misstated one severance alternative. (The error also occurred in a Business Day article about the reaction of workers to the plan.) Employees nearing retirement who agree to leave the job immediately will receive up to $2,900 a month until they reach their 30th anniversary of service at G.M. They must agree to retire at that point and will receive full pension. They cannot continue working in the interim, and the money is not in addition to their regular pay.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Kaufmann, 30, has spent nine years with G.M. He will not risk taking the company's buyout offer. (Photo by Bridget Barrett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); CLOSINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); DRINKING PLACES (62%) Automobiles; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Organized Labor

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Flint (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



491 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Is Upstate 'Like Appalachia'? Well, Part of It Is Appalachia

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 22 

 BODY:
A candidate for governor compared upstate New York to Appalachia. The sitting governor called that an insult. Lost in the fracas was a geographical fact: In some places, upstate New York actually is Appalachia. 
 Sure, the 14 counties along the Southern Tier that make up New York's portion represent only a fraction of the vast swath of land the federal government calls the Appalachian region. And some might even call the designation a technicality, since the heart of Appalachia is hundreds of miles away.
Being part of Appalachia comes with a few benefits. Last year, New York received about $2.5 million from the Appalachian Regional Commission, a federal-state partnership created in 1965 to aid the region's lagging economy.
 And last week, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton received an award from the Development District Association of Appalachia, which applauded her advocacy for those in the Appalachian region of New York. 
 After Attorney General Eliot Spitzer stood by his comparison of the two regions' economies on Tuesday, Gov. George E. Pataki countered by saying, ''Appalachia doesn't have Empire Zones,'' referring to one of New York's economic development programs. 
 But the governor was mistaken. There are 12 Empire Zones in New York's Appalachian counties. Officially, Mr. Pataki is a member of the Appalachian Regional Commission and employs an administrator to coordinate programs like pediatric medical services in rural areas and overhauling waste water projects. 
 ''I'm not sure any recent governor ever has really acknowledged that we're part of Appalachia, even though it's been that way for decades,'' said William L. Parment, a Democratic assemblyman from Chautauqua County, in the southwest corner of the state. ''It's as if they think we'll all be associated with poor people in the mountains, even though that's clearly not what all of Appalachia is.''
 After thinking for a moment, Mr. Parment offered a political truism: ''I suppose it's all about appearances.'' 
 Although the analogy created a stir in some political and academic circles, experts do not exactly blame New Yorkers for their lack of awareness. 
 ''There's never going to be a consensus about the real meaning of Appalachia,'' said Ron Eller, a professor of history and the former director of the Appalachian Center at the University of Kentucky. ''It's either a cultural place that's defined pejoratively or geopolitics that governors might not want to be a part of. But they are all willing to take the money.''
 Mr. Spitzer's comments provoked particular outrage from Randy A. Daniels, a Republican candidate for governor. Mr. Daniels, a former New York secretary of state who once served on the Appalachian commission, said his Southern colleagues would scoff at the comparison. 
 ''That's an easy reference, but it's not the reality,'' Mr. Daniels said. ''When the project funds were being divvied up and we got our share, they'd say, 'Only in New York would that be considered poor.' '' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HISTORY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Election Issues; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Jennifer Medina; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; Appalachian Region

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006



492 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; 36 HOURS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Exuma, the Bahamas

BYLINE: By ABBOTT COMBES

 BODY:
THE real Exuma is a do-it-yourself place, best discovered with sand between your toes. On its unspoiled beaches, the only footprints are probably your own, and the clear Atlantic waters that feed them dance before you like a kaleidoscope of jades, purples and blues. It is also a place where street addresses are nonexistent and where you will have to slow down in spite of yourself: there is regular time, and there is Bahamian time, and the more you try to hurry, the longer it will take you to get there. ABBOTT COMBES

Friday 


6 p.m.
1 -- Into the Drink

If you're staying at the Club Peace and Plenty hotel in George Town (800-525-2210), attend the manager's Friday-night reception; if you're not staying there, crash it. Crashing is O.K.; you just should forgo the complimentary rum punch and pay for your own drinks, served up with plenty of gusto by Lermon Rolle (poolside) and Glen Munroe (in the former slave quarters that are the main bar). There are two reasons you want to be there. One is the allure of tropical libations with names like Reef Wrecker and Goombay Smash (both $6.50; Bahamian and U.S. currencies are an even exchange). The other is to meet Chad Florence, a Michigan artist who spends half the year in Exuma, and to see his paintings, which send you right into the middle of island life.

7 p.m.
2 -- Bahamian Shuffle

Walk down the street to the Two Turtles Inn (242-336-2545) for the Friday-night barbecue. Go native with the grilled grouper for $18, served with peas and rice (as is almost everything you eat in the Bahamas), macaroni and cheese, cole slaw and potato salad. Don't worry about the pounds, because at 8 o'clock or thereabouts the band starts playing its mix of calypso, rock, reggae, soul and whatever else it can think of, the amps loud enough to wake the dead and set the most leaden feet to twitching. Ask someone how to do the Bahamian shuffle. Don't be shy; the Bahamians won't.

Saturday

8 a.m.
3 -- Grouper Breakfast

Join the locals for a Bahamian breakfast at one of the ''shacks'' on the old United States Navy base a half-mile west of town. Tino's is where you'll see the most cars; a meal of ''stew fish'' (a k a grouper), grits and bread is about $10.

9:30 a.m.
4 -- Roads Less Traveled

Technically, Exuma is an archipelago of 365 cays and islands that uncoils for 150 miles or so southeast of Nassau, but for the purposes of this weekend, it's just two islands -- one named Great and the other Little, linked by a single road (the Queen's Highway) and one bridge. To begin a morning of scattershot exploration, grab a map and head east to Little Exuma. Keep your eyes open along the way. Exuma has a rich history of shipwrecking, blockade-breaking, rum-running and drug-trafficking, and you never know when you'll happen upon a secluded cove where Captain Kidd once anchored or even a brick of marijuana washed up on the shore, as I did once. After you cross the bridge into Little Exuma, find the Tropic of Cancer Beach (so called because it's practically on it) between Forbes Hill and Williams Town and loll awhile. Or be impulsive: take an unmarked road (street signs on the island are as rare as neckties) left toward the water and see what you find. Beaches in the Bahamas are public property up to the high-tide mark, but you should respect private property in reaching them.

11:30 a.m.
5 -- Cotton Picking

Return to the Queen's Highway, drive into Williams Town and meander through the ruins of the Hermitage Plantation, a reminder of how British loyalists tried -- and eventually failed -- to establish a plantation economy on the island after the American Revolution. Another reminder, incidentally, is the wild cotton you see the entire length (about 60 miles) and breadth (about 7 miles) of Great and Little Exuma. For lunch, stop at Santanna's roadside stand in Williams Town (242-345-4102) and chat with Dee Rolle-Styles as she fixes you a plate of cracked lobster ($18). On your way back to George Town, take a right in the middle of the big bend leading into Forbes Hill and put some more sand between your toes at the sweeping beach there.

1:30 p.m.
6 -- To Market, to Market

Back in the middle of George Town, under the spreading ficus tree, survey the intricate weaving and other handicrafts of the women of the straw market, whose salesmanship, by the way, can be fierce. And up the road, Diane Polley-Minns's shop, Sandpiper (242-336-2084), features Bahamian artwork and a smart selection of clothing, jewelry, books, toys and souvenirs.

2 p.m.
7 -- Nature's A.T.M. Machine

Westward! Back on the Queen's Highway, the 22-mile jaunt to Cocoplums Beach is a pleasant drive through small towns and postcard-pretty ocean vistas. But avert your eyes when you pass the sprawling Four Seasons Resort, which is to the real Exuma as a fluorescent light is to a Bahamian sunset (and where a guest can indulge himself to the unimaginable tune of $6,800 a night, should he so desire). About five miles beyond this reservation of ostentation, after Steventon but before Rolleville, turn right at a sign that says Cocoplums Beach Club (242-554-3358, open 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., closed Tuesdays; cash only), drive to the end of the road and park. Say hello to Dana and Dee Thompson-Wilkinson, the club's chef-proprietors, and prepare to eat the best food on the island -- lobster fritters ($12), jade curry shrimp ($20), blackened grouper ($22) and tropical bread pudding ($8) -- before or after you stroll the beach and withdraw a few sand dollars.

8 p.m.
8 -- Let Them Eat Turtle

Convince yourself you're still hungry and have the turtle steak ($18) at Eddie's Edgewater on Lake Victoria in the center of George Town (242-336-2050). The kitchen defines Bahamian time, and you will undoubtedly be hungry by the time the meal arrives. After dinner, ask around about where the Saturday-night action is: there's usually a band playing at one of the hotels or bar-restaurants or, shades of culture implosion, a karaoke machine. Or maybe opt for the sounds of silence and let a slow boat ride around the starlit harbor be your good-night serenade.

Sunday

8 a.m.
9 -- Soused

Breakfast on the second-floor deck at Sam's Place (242-336-2579), Sam Gray's restaurant overlooking his marina in George Town, will put you in the mood for a day on and in the water. Order the sheep's tongue or chicken souse, bolstered by grits and johnnycake, all for about $10.

9 a.m.
10 -- Sporting Life

Take to the sea for an adventurous morning of scuba diving, snorkeling, fishing and/or boating, but don't wait until Sunday to make the arrangements: Dive Exuma (242-336-2893, www.dive-exuma.com); Starfish (800-893-8622; in Exuma, 242-336-3033, www.kayakbahamas.com); Minns Water Sports (242-336-3483, www.mwsboats.com). Drop anchor almost anywhere, jump in the water and you'll think you're swimming in the pages of National Geographic, surrounded by chromatic tropical fish and flowerlike coral reefs. The island is a magnet for bonefishermen (many of whom swear by the flats just before the bridge to Little Exuma), though some anglers prefer going after barracuda, tarpon, grouper or even sharks.

10 a.m.
11 -- Take a Hike

As an alternative to participatory sport, take a water taxi across the harbor to Stocking Island from the Club Peace and Plenty dock (free for guests; $10 round trip otherwise). Stocking Island's trails, blue holes, hidden cave and beaches, particularly on the unprotected Atlantic side,can bring out the nature lover in even the slickest of city slickers. Before returning to George Town, have one of Doralee Roache's sandwiches at the Peace and Plenty Beach Club. While her hamburgers ($8) and cheeseburgers ($8.50) are justly famed -- it's called Hamburger Beach, after all -- her conchburgers ($9) are even better.

Where Sand Dollars Are Local Currency
 There are daily nonstop flights to Exuma from Miami (American Eagle), Fort Lauderdale (Lynx Air International, Continental Connection) and Nassau (Bahamasair). You'll want a rental car. Better yet, contact Prestige Scooter Rental in George Town (242-357-0066, $50 a day), and spend the weekend taking a ride on the mild side. Whichever, remember to ask for a map. And to drive on the left side of the road.
 You can arrive in style, by sail -- or motor, if you must -- and moor in Elizabeth Harbour, right off George Town; call Customs for regulations and fees (242-336-2072). No matter how you get there, you will have to produce a valid photo ID and proof of citizenship, though a passport is not mandatory (but is expected to be next year). More information is online at www.exuma.bahamas.com.
 In season (through April), rooms at Club Peace and Plenty (800-525-2210; www.peaceandplenty.com), a onetime sponge warehouse, start at $170. (The Peace and Plenty also operates the Beach Inn outside of town.) At the few-frills Two Turtles Inn (242-336-2545), a room is $126 a night, double occupancy. A mile west of George Town, Coconut Cove Hotel is an intimate beachfront getaway built from scratch by Pam and Tom Chimento (242-336-2659, www.coconutcoveexumabahamas.com). Rooms start at $152; the food is excellent, though decidedly not Bahamian.
 A caution: The Family Island Regatta (April 25 to 29), an always exuberant and occasionally riotous festival of traditional Bahamian seamanship and rollicking, can disrupt the normal dynamics of the island.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)Map of The Bahamas highlighting Exuma.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (87%); BEACHES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Abbott Combes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHAMAS (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bahama Islands; Exuma (Bahamas)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



493 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 41 words

HEADLINE: Back of the Envelope

 BODY:
Financing has been cheap, even as the Federal Reserve has been steadily pushing up interest rates since July 2004, and that has helped fuel the boom in mergers. Fed policy makers are widely expected to raise rates another quarter-point next week. 

GRAPHIC: Graphs shows VALUE OF DEALS and the NUMBER OF DEALS for United States mergers and acquisitions since July '04. (Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



494 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 16343 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: March 24 - March 30

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'TARZAN' Previews start today. Opens May 10. Phil Collins lends his invisible touch to the score of the latest Disney musical. David Henry Hwang wrote the book (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'THE THREEPENNY OPERA' Previews start today. Opens April 20. If any Broadway theater was made for a revival of Brecht's classic, it's the cabaret-style Studio 54, which will be host to an intriguing cast that includes Alan Cumming and Cyndi Lauper (2:40). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'TRIAL BY WATER' Opens Sunday. The Ma-Yi Theater Company's allegorical work by Qui Nguyen is about two Vietnamese brothers who set off for the United States. John Gould Rubin directs (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'FRAGMENT' Opens Sunday. Classic Stage Company presents a new play based on bits and pieces of Euripides and Sophocles. Pavol Liska directs (1:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 677-4210.

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' Opens Monday. Something of a phenomenon in the late 1960's, this Belgian singer's romantic music returns to New York in this musical, which features tangos, ballads, boleros and rock 'n' roll (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'STUFF HAPPENS' Previews start Tuesday. The words of Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld and company make up the script of David Hare's docudrama about the run-up to war (2:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'THREE DAYS OF RAIN' Previews start Tuesday. Opens April 19. Julia Roberts stars in this year's most closely watched star vehicle, a revival of the Richard Greenberg time-traveling drama about how we divide the legacy of our parents. Paul Rudd also stars. Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'SANDRA BERNHARD: EVERYTHING BAD AND BEAUTIFUL' Previews start Wednesday. Opens April 5. Miss Bernhard bares her soul, sings a few tunes and dishes some gossip in her latest solo (you know, the usual). (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, at Union Square, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'70 GIRLS 70' Opens Thursday. New York City Center Encores! revives this little-known Kander and Ebb musical about elderly Upper West Side residents who go on a crime spree (2:20). New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'THE CATARACT' Opens April 2. Two upstanding Midwesterners welcome a transient Southern couple into their home in Lisa D'Amour's sensual new play (2:15). Woman's Project/Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'PEN' Opens April 2. A college-bound student struggles with his dysfunctional parents in this new play by David Marshall Grant (''Snakebit''). J. Smith-Cameron stars (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'SHOW PEOPLE' Opens April 6. A new comedy by Paul Weitz (''Privilege'') about two actors who are hired by a banker to impersonate his parents. Debra Monk stars (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

'TRYST' Opens April 6. A womanizing con man tries to seduce a love-starved shop girl in Karoline Leach's new drama set in Edwardian England (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'FESTEN' Opens April 9. Based on the film ''The Celebration,'' this London transfer, starring Julianna Margulies, Larry Bryggman and Michael Hayden, is about a Danish man who confronts some old secrets at a family reunion (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'BASED ON A TOTALLY TRUE STORY' Opens April 11. A Hollywood deal makes a comic-book writer re-evaluate his relationships in this new play by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'LANDSCAPE OF THE BODY' Previews start Tuesday. Opens April 16. John Guare, never satisfied with an overly tidy play, throws comedy, tragedy, satire and mystery into this cult drama, which opened almost three decades ago. Lili Taylor and Sherie Rene Scott star. Signature Theater's Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.

'AWAKE AND SING!' Previews start today. Opens April 17. Lincoln Center revives Clifford Odets's classic fist-shaking drama about a Jewish family struggling to survive during the Depression. The impressive cast includes Mark Ruffalo, Ben Gazzara and Zoe Wanamaker (2:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'LESTAT' Previews start tomorrow. Opens April 25. Elton John and Bernie Taupin have a good track record making pop hits, but can they find success in the cursed genre of the vampire musical? Hugh Panaro stars (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, (212) 307-4100.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''Barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' The arrival of Jonathan Pryce and his eloquent eyebrows automatically makes this the season's most improved musical. With Mr. Pryce (who replaces the admirable but uneasy John Lithgow) playing the silken swindler to Norbert Leo Butz's vulgar grifter, it's as if a mismatched entry in a three-legged race had become an Olympic figure-skating pair (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this drama by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

* 'RABBIT HOLE' Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of David Lindsay-Abaire's wrenching play, about the impact of the death of a small child, lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly, directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RING OF FIRE' The man in black turns sunshine yellow in a show that strings songs associated with Johnny Cash into a big, bright candy necklace of a musical revue, created and directed by Richard Maltby Jr. In the current bio-flick ''Walk the Line,'' Cash wrestles demons; ''Ring of Fire'' wrestles with a really bad case of the cutes (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'BERNARDA ALBA' Michael John LaChiusa's musical adaptation of Federico Garcia Lorca's tragedy of sexual repression often feels wan and weary, though not for want of erotic imagery. The ominous, oppressive atmosphere that makes Lorca's play so much more than a potboiler is mostly missing in inaction. Graciela Daniele directs a game ensemble led by a miscast Phylicia Rashad (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'CHRISTINE JORGENSON REVEALS' Bradford Louryk meticulously lip-syncs a fascinating hourlong interview about gender and sexuality with Ms. Jorgenson, whose sex-change operation in the 1950's was big news (1:00). The Studio Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Zinoman)

'DEFIANCE' The second play in John Patrick Shanley's cycle of morality dramas that began with ''Doubt,'' this ambitious tale of racial relations and the military mindset on a North Carolina marine base feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt'' has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a flustered air of distraction. The excellent Margaret Colin, as an officer's wife, provides a welcome shot of credibility (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'ENTERTAINING MR. SLOANE' Miscasting is the mother of invention. Or so it proves to be for Jan Maxwell, who retailors an ill-fitting part and makes it as snug as a glove in this underpowered revival of Joe Orton's scandalous 1964 comedy. Scott Ellis's production of Orton's great farce of sexual hypocrisy, which also stars Alec Baldwin, is breezy, often funny and rarely convincing. (2:00). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'FAMILY SECRETS' Performing old jokes with meticulous detail, Sherry Glaser in her solo show brings to life three generations of a Jewish family (1:30). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Zinoman)

'GEORGE M. COHAN TONIGHT!' The all-singing, all-dancing Jon Peterson summons the spirit of this legendary Broadway entertainer in this engaging one-man musical, devised and directed by Chip Deffaa (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (George Hunka)

'GREY GARDENS' As the socialite in limbo called ''Little'' Edie Beale, Christine Ebersole gives one of the most gorgeous performances ever to grace a musical. Unfortunately, she's a pearl of incalculable price in a show that is mostly costume jewelry. Adapted from the Maysles brothers' 1975 cult documentary movie, a camp favorite, and directed by Michael Greif, with the excellent Mary Louise Wilson as Edie's bedridden mother (2:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

* 'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' The plot line -- single New Yorkers in search of love -- couldn't be more familiar, but somehow this fluffy, funny musical makes it refreshing, helped along by an engaging six-member cast, with David A. Austin making a particularly hilarious impression. An impressive start for Ryan Cunningham (book and lyrics) and Joshua Salzman (music), both still in their 20's (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Neil Genzlinger)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MEASURE FOR MEASURE' A solid revival of one of Shakespeare's problem plays in which the director Beatrice Terry has opted to emphasize the humor, especially in the scenes of comic relief. A staging with handsome costumes and that for the most part boasts a fine cast, whose members have made some smart choices (2:30). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Wilborn Hampton)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, this play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SOLDIER'S WIFE' When this play first opened on Broadway, World War II was shuddering to a close, and those on the home front wanted to feel good. Despite flaws in the work, the Mint Theater Company's revival of Rose Franken's 1944 comedy is highly entertaining (2:00). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Honor Moore)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to the classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood)

* 'TRANSATLANTIC LIAISON' A play fashioned from Simone de Beauvoir's love letters to the American novelist Nelson Algren and scenes from her novel ''The Mandarins'' (which tells the story of their affair). Wonderful performances by Elizabeth Rothan as de Beauvoir in love, and Matthew S. Tompkins as the emotional Algren (1:30). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Moore)

'WALK THE MOUNTAIN' Jude Narita's one-woman show ''Walk the Mountain,'' about the hellish effects of the Vietnam War, offers nuanced accounts rather than a mere litany of horrors. (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Laura Weinert)

Off Off Broadway

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright (Yussef El Guindi) addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after 9/11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

'SAVAGES' Lurking somewhere in this stiff new play by Anne Nelson is a compelling op-ed piece yearning to be set free. Examining a little-known episode from the Philippines-American war at the turn of the last century, the author of the popular play ''The Guys'' argues that the United States involvement in Iraq echoes that previous mess. Unfortunately, the play has too much information to impart to allow time for nuanced drama to emerge (1:30). Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'33 TO NOTHING' A band break up while playing break-up music in Grant James Varjas's comic, sometimes poignant play. Music performed by the actors. Argo Theater Company, at the Bottle Factory Theater, 195 East Third Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444. (Gwen Orel)

'WE USED TO GO OUT' Jason Mantzoukas and Jessica St. Clair revive the tradition of male-female comedy team in this appealing sketch about a disintegrating romance (1:00). UCB Theater, 306 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 366-9176. ( Zinoman)

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'BLUFF' Jeffrey Sweet's mostly comic tale of a young New York couple whose tentative romance is disrupted by a boorish stepfather has great fun playing with the audience through direct address and such, but it is executed with too much smirking (1:25). 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday. (Genzlinger)

* 'FAT BOY' John Clancy's knockabout satire is blessed by a roaring performance by Del Pentecost as the round, murdering title character (1:30). Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. ( Zinoman)

'HEDDA GABLER' In the title role of Ibsen's destructively dissatisfied heroine, Cate Blanchett is giving roughly a dozen of the liveliest performances to be seen this year, all at the same time, in the Sydney Theater Company's visiting production. A mere one or two at this level of intensity would have been enough. But she remains compellingly watchable in Robyn Nevin's hyped-up, spasmodic production (2:25). Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100; closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'MEASURE FOR PLEASURE' A mock-Restoration comedy by David Grimm. Seeking to do a little restoration work of his own, he inserts great chunks of fresh dirt into every nook, cranny and convention of an old form. Acted to the hilt by a first-rate company under the direction of Peter DuBois, this tirelessly ribald comedy will tickle, offend or simply bore in measures that will vary according to your taste for blatantly vulgar sexual comedy (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday.(Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'AQUAMARINE' (PG, 109 minutes) In this sweet comedy for the crowd that has outgrown ''The Little Mermaid,'' two likable pals (Emma Roberts and Joanna Levesque, a k a the singer JoJo) try to help a mermaid (Sara Paxton) find love and learn how to use her feet properly.(Neil Genzlinger)

Ask the Dust (R, 117 minutes) A story about being young and hungry -- for fame, for women, for food -- in Los Angeles during the 1930's. Robert Towne wrote and directed this adaptation of the John Fante novel, and Colin Farrell and Salma Hayek star. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. (Mr. Lee won the Academy Award for best director.) Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. (Mr. Hoffman won the Academy Award for best actor.) Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'CRASH' (Academy Award, Best Picture) (R, 107 minutes) A gaggle of Los Angeles residents from various economic and ethnic backgrounds collide, sometimes literally, within an extremely hectic 36 hours. Well-intentioned, impressively acted but ultimately a speechy, ponderous melodrama of liberal superstition masquerading as realism. (Scott)

'DAVE CHAPPELLE'S BLOCK PARTY' (R, 103 minutes) The setup is blissfully simple: a free block party on a dead-end street in Bed-Stuy, with a lineup of musicians, some of whom, like Kanye West and Mos Def, have put in appearances on ''Chappelle's Show.'' The nominal idea, Mr. Chappelle explains on camera, was ''the concert I've always wanted to see.'' The result, which ping-pongs between Brooklyn and Mr. Chappelle's hometown in Ohio, is a tantalizing sketch-portrait of the artist amid an outpouring of hard beats and soul. (Dargis)

* 'DON'T COME KNOCKING' (R, 122 minutes) The visually majestic but dramatically inert reunion of Sam Shepard (who stars) and the director Wim Wenders, 22 years after their auspicious collaboration ''Paris, Texas,'' might be described as a magnificent ruin. (Holden)

* Duck Season (R, 87 minutes) Two boys, one girl, a pizza-delivery man and a pan of pot brownies equals one charmingly low-key film about friendship and the ecstasy of communion. The Mexican filmmaker Fernando Eimbcke is a talent to watch. (Dargis)

* 'FIND ME GUILTY' (R, 124 minutes) This gripping courtroom drama, directed by Sidney Lumet, now 81 and near the top of his game, is based on the 1987-88 trial of 20 members of the New Jersey-based Lucchese crime family on multiple counts. Vin Diesel turns in a sensational performance as Giacomo DiNorscio, better known as Jackie Dee, who broke from the ranks of his fellow defendants to be his own defense lawyer. (Holden)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

* 'PUZZLEHEAD' (No rating, 81 minutes) In a bleak and barren future, a lonely scientist builds a robot companion called Puzzlehead and trains him to spy on the pale, jittery salesgirl whom the scientist has been secretly coveting. Mining the Frankenstein myth and finding psychosexual gold, the writer and director James Bai creates a doomed love triangle around cannibalistic themes, Freudian passions and the understanding that even a tin man can have a heart. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'SHADOW: DEAD RIOT' (No rating, 90 minutes) An experimental women's prison is overrun by zombies in this berserk little B movie, the low-budget love child of ''The Evil Dead'' and ''Reform School Girls.'' (Nathan Lee)

'SHE'S THE MAN' (PG-13, 105 minutes) ''Twelfth Night'' is recast as a hysterically peppy romantic comedy about a she-jock penetrating the boys' soccer team. Because girls can do anything boys can do, although their ultimate ambition is to put on a nice dress and go steady with a stupid jock. (Lee)

'16 BLOCKS' (PG-13, 105 minutes) If Richard Donner's presence suggests that his new action flick, ''16 Blocks,'' is a throwback to the 1980's, so does one of the names holding pride of place above the title, Bruce Willis. Mr. Willis has always been an acquired taste, but for those who did acquire that taste, it's a pleasure to see him doing what comes naturally. Which means holding a gun and fending off bad guys with as few words as possible. (Dargis)

* 'SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS' (No rating, 117 minutes, in German) The gripping true story of Sophie Scholl, an anti-Nazi student activist in the 1940's, arrested and executed for distributing leaflets at Munich University, challenges you to gauge your own courage and strength of character should you find yourself in similar circumstances. (Holden)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'Thank You for Smoking' (R, 92 minutes) The director Jason Reitman has made a glib and funny movie from Christopher Buckley's glib and funny novel about a Big Tobacco lobbyist, but the real attraction here is the hard-working star, Aaron Eckhart. (Dargis)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'Tsotsi' (R, 94 minutes) (Academy Award winner for best foreign film.) Written and directed by Gavin Hood, from a novel by Athol Fugard, this South African film centers on a 19-year-old thug who steals a baby and finds redemption. You don't have to read crystal balls to see into Tsotsi's future; you just need to have watched a couple of Hollywood chestnuts. (Dargis)

'ULTRAVIOLET' (PG-13, 80 minutes) The latest in movies structured around eyewear and abdominals, ''Ultraviolet'' stars Milla Jovovich as a genetically modified human -- part vampire, part chameleon, all model -- and one of the many victims of a government experiment to improve on nature. Directed by Kurt Wimmer with a fine eye for the preferences of 12-year-old boys, ''Ultraviolet'' cleaves faithfully to its comic-book genealogy with a plot unobstructed by big words and images that rarely breach two dimensions. Ultrasilly. (Catsoulis)

'V for Vendetta' (R, 131 minutes) James McTeigue directs this D-for-''dumb'' future-shock story about a masked avenger (Hugo Weaving) and his pipsqueak sidekick (Natalie Portman) at war against a totalitarian British regime. (Dargis)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon (winner of the Academy Award for best actress), who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

ANNA MAY WONG (Through April 16) Wong, the first Chinese-American movie star, would have turned 100 last year. (She died in 1961.) The Museum of the Moving Image's extensive seven-week retrospective of her work continues this weekend with Joseph von Sternberg's ''Shanghai Express'' (1932), in which Wong and Marlene Dietrich play ladies of the evening whose train is hijacked; ''The Flame of Love'' (1930), about a dancer in pre-Revolutionary Russia; and ''Daughter of the Dragon'' (1931), about the avenging daughter of Fu Manchu. 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Anita Gates)

DON SIEGEL (Through April 13) Siegel, who died in 1991, was a master of several genres, including science fiction, westerns and police thrillers. Film Forum's four-week, 25-movie retrospective of his work continues this weekend with ''Invasion of the Body Snatchers'' (1956), the sci-fi classic about alien pods that replicate and replace humans. Next week's films include ''Flaming Star'' (1960), with Elvis Presley as Dolores Del Rio's son; ''Private Hell 36'' (1954), about two policemen (Steve Cochran and Howard Duff) in desperate need of money; and ''Baby Face Nelson'' (1957), a crime drama starring Mickey Rooney in the title role. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Gates)

SOME KIND OF HORROR SHOW (Through Thursday) BAMcinematek's annual festival of horror movies concludes next week with four films. ''My Bloody Valentine'' (1981) is a low-budget movie about a miner's revenge against teenagers, and ''The Witch'' (1952) is a Finnish thriller about a corpse who turns into a beautiful woman. George A. Romero's ''Martin'' (1977), also part of the Morris & Movies series, is described above. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

VAUDEVILLE ON FILM (Through Wednesday) The New York Public Library's Donnell Library Center's program of restored movie shorts featuring vaudeville performers concludes on Wednesday with a 10-film program. The shorts include ''Insurance'' (1930), with Eddie Cantor; ''Vitaphone Hippodrome'' (1936), with Molly Picon; and ''Frances Williams & the Yacht Club Boys'' (1929). 20 West 53rd Street, (212) 621-0619; free. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

The Allman Brothers Band (Tonight through Sunday) The archetypal Southern rock band is still on the road. Gregg Allman, the band's keyboardist and main singer, is more than ever its center, since its co-founder Dickey Betts is estranged from the band. His replacement, Warren Haynes, shares the twin-guitar passages with Derek Trucks, the nephew of the band's drummer, Butch Trucks, and a jam-band leader in his own right. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $49.99 to $84.99. (Jon Pareles)

ANIMAL COLLECTIVE (Tomorrow) These moody folk-poppers find a kind of romance in wails and clatter. Their cracked progressive-rock jams and urban pastoral chant-alongs map a landscape where fantastical beasts gather for ritual rocking around trashcan campfires. 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sold out.) (Laura Sinagra)

ARTIC MONKEYS (Tomorrow) The It band of the moment is this very young British rock outfit, which combines hormonal post-punk mania with good-natured grousing and conspiratorial giddiness. 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $15. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

AUKTYON (Tomorrow through Monday) These veterans of the Leningrad rock club scene known for their Dadaist lyrics and riotous stage show fuse traditional folk with frenetic punk and jazz. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Knitting Factory, Main Space, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $25. Sunday and Monday at 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $25. (Sinagra)

Susana Baca (Tuesday) Susana Baca has made musicological studies of Afro-Peruvian songs, but she has also followed her clear, knowing voice in less purist directions, fusing the modal delicacy of her Peruvian band with musicians versed in jazz and rock. 7.30 p.m., Hostos Center for the Arts & Culture, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-4455; $20 and $25. (Pareles)

The Balkan Brothers (Thursday) The Balkan Brothers, Ismail Butera and Seido Salifoski, don't limit themselves to Balkan music. They use it as a starting point for experimentation with a wide range of traditional instruments, including accordion, longneck lutes, Uzbek dotar, flutes, dumbek, tabla, frame drums and tapan. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $8.(Sinagra)

Sir Richard Bishop (Tonight) As part of the long-running trio of Bay Area jazz, folk and rock collagists Sun City Girls, the guitarist Sir Richard Bishop has had a sympathetic outlet for his brand of sonic expression -- which can veer from Middle Eastern modes to jazzy vamps to John Fahey-like rambles. 8, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

Billy Bragg (Tonight) This British folk-punk fixture brings as much wit and gusto to love-struck and lovelorn pop as he does to protest music and righteous political screeds. 8, Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, www.ticketmaster.com, (212) 307-7171; $33.50 to $38.50. (Sinagra)

COLDPLAY (Tomorrow through Monday) The piano-playing arena rock melodist Chris Martin brings themes of fatherhood to bear on his band's most recent songs, which pick up the tempo a bit but do not rival the band's timeless misfit cri de coeur, ''Yellow.'' Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, the Meadowlands, Route 120, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900; $38.50 to $78.50. (Sold out.) Sunday and Monday at 8 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000; $37.50 to $77.50. (Sinagra)

Cordero (Tomorrow) Mixing the open atmospherics of the Southwest with the gritty feel of the Brooklyn art scene, the bilingual Ani Cordero, who has worked with Calexico and Giant Sand, and her band make guitar rock that gives urban brashness some borderland mystery. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side; (212) 358-7501; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

THE CULT (Sunday) This Led Zeppelin- and-Doors-influenced 80's band presaged the mix of hard rock and hip-swiveling goth posturing that is popular in today's modern rock. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $38. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

RAY DAVIES (Tonight through Sunday) The Kinks singer Ray Davies performs old favorites and selections from his new songs inspired by his efforts to better understand the United States. One assumes he will tell some stories, too. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $65. (Sold out tonight and tomorrow.) (Sinagra)

DESTROYER (Tuesday) The Vancouver malcontent and Destroyer mastermind Dan Bejar's pointy vocal delivery and disjointed tantrums are not mitigated by his recent move toward indie-pop lushness, but they're so self-possesed, you wouldn't want them to be. 7 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780 or ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $14. (Sinagra)

DR. DOG (Tomorrow) This lo-fi Philly garage-rock quintet brings shaggy verve to their Beatles and Beach Boys homages. 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

Editors (Tuesday and Thursday) Another in the line of British post-punk bands joining the dark, danceable Joy Division parade, the Editors have strong singles, like the propulsive ''Munich,'' but none that top the best from its sonic cousin, Interpol. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $17.50. Thursday at 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $16 in advance, $19 at the door. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

EISLEY (Wednesday) Four of the waifs in this pop quartet are siblings, home-schooled in a small town in Texas by Christian parents who supported their Radiohead obsession. If they seem slight now, just wait. The youngest writes the best stuff, and her round, imploring voice sounds spookily like Christine McVie's. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

Cesaria Evora, Seu Jorge (Thursday) The Cape Verdean singer Cesaria Evora is famous for her mornas, songs of mourning sung in Portuguese. The Brazilian Seu Jorge may be best known here for his lilting samba covers of David Bowie songs in Wes Anderson's movie ''The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou.'' His music avoids the traditional Brazilian styles, favoring crowd-pleasing funk-pop and loverman rhythm and blues. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $45 to $78.50. (Sinagra)

TH' FAITH HEALERS, ORANGES BAND (Monday and Wednesday) The churning psychedelic guitar storms of this English band are sweetened by the vocals of Roxanne Stephen. Also on the bill are the pleasantly droney pop rockers the Oranges Band. Monday at 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. Wednesday at 9 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sinagra)

FLUTE MUSIC OF INDIA: STEVE GORN WITH SAMIR CHATTERJEE (Wednesday) Anyone who saw the moving documentary ''Born Into Brothels'' will recognize the bamboo flute music of Steve Gorn, who performs a repertory of meditative North Indian classical music. The tabla player Samir Chatterjee will accompany him here. 8 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $25; $21 for members; $15 for students with college ID. (Sinagra)

Teddy Geiger (Tonight) This wholesome teenage heartthrob writes energetic pop songs that draw as much from Vanessa Carlton as from Elton John. 7:30, Coda, 34 East 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-3434; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

The Gossip (Tomorrow) Fronted by the charismatic Arkansas native Beth Ditto, the Gossip play riot-grrrl punk with a bluesy swagger. 10:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $12. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

CHAKA KHAN (Tonight) In the 2002 documentary ''Standing in the Shadows of Motown,'' R & B luminaries reverentially jammed with the still rocking house band, but Khan pushed well past safe with her explosive rendition of ''What's Goin' On.'' Recently, she's been roughing up jazz standards and funking it up with Prince, with energy to spare. 8, Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 960-8833, $30 to $40. (Sinagra)

TED LEO & THE PHARMACISTS (Sunday) The Irish-American indie rocker Ted Leo plays soulful punk, nearly popping a neck vein for political justice. But his melodic sensibility and falsetto also recall the 1970's arena rock of bands like Thin Lizzy. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $12. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

LOS AMIGOS INVISIBLES (Tonight) Los Amigos Invisibles, from Venezuela, latch on to dance grooves from the last three decades: James Brown funk, the stolid thump of house music, mid-1960's boogaloo, 70's Miami disco, Santana's mambo-rock, even some rapping, while the lyrics (in Spanish) are come-on's somewhere between charm and smarm. Midnight, S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940; $20. (Pareles)

LOVE IS ALL (Tonight and tomorrow) One of the most exciting discoveries of the year, this Swedish band evokes the angular spunk of 1970's feminist post-punk bands like Liliput. Tonight at 11:30, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $12. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $13. (Sinagra)

Magic Numbers, The Elected (Tuesday) The London band Magic Numbers's diffuse take on 1960's rock gets points for its decent vocal harmonies. The Elected is a countrified indie-rock band with the Rilo Kiley co-leader Blake Sennett at the helm. 7:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sinagra)

JESSE MALIN (Tonight) Jesse Malin led D Generation, the glam-rock kings of St. Mark's Place, and has gone on to a solo career that's considerably more earnest. 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $17. (Sinagra)

THE MINUS 5 (Sunday and Tuesday) Scott McCaughey of Seattle's underground pop stalwarts the Young Fresh Fellows and his regular collaborator, Peter Buck, the R.E.M. guitarist, play songs that hark back to that 60's moment when exuberant backbeat rock 'n'-roll was being influenced by acid. Sunday's bill includes Richard Buckner. On Tuesday it features the Silos and Mendoza Line. Sunday at 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236; $13. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $15. (Sinagra)

REGGETON XPLOSION 3 (Wednesday) This reggaeton concert features luminaries of the form, Don Omar and Pitbull, among others. 8 p.m., Spirit, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 468-7619; $25 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sinagra)

SNOW PATROL (Tuesday) Making lush, introspective pop music about the mundane acrimonies of close romantic relationships, the British band Snow Patrol appeals to fans of Coldplay and the Shins. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

ROB ZOMBIE (Tuesday and Wednesday) The overwrought industrial metal of Rob Zombie is only part of his appeal now that he has gotten into the horror filmmaking game. His ''Devil's Rejects'' flick was a sleeper slasher favorite last year. 7:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street; ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $40. (Sold out on Tuesday.) (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

* Barbara Cook (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) This Broadway legend is loose, down-home and, as always, magnificent, singing a 25-year retrospective of songs she has performed at the Cafe Carlyle. 8:45 p.m., with an additional show tomorrow night at 10:45, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $85; dinner required at the 8:45 shows.(Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

* KT Sullivan and Mark Nadler (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through April 1) In the words of Cole Porter, whose songs are performed here by a ripened Botticelli Venus and a reincarnation of Danny Kaye, ooh-la-la-la, c'est magnifique. 9 p.m., with late shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $50 cover, with a $50 prix fixe dinner required at the early shows tonight and tomorrow, or a $20 minimum. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

CLAUDIA ACUNA QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Acuna is a vocalist attracted to lyrical high drama and guided by the pulse and passion of her native Chile; she sounds best when supported and stretched by sympathetic musicians, like the pianist Jason Lindner, who joins her here. 9 and 11, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)

MOSE ALLISON (Through Sunday) Mr. Allison is best known for his songs, which combine cosmopolitan wit with a folksy worldview. As a singer and pianist he enacts a similar fusion, recasting Delta blues in bebop's hipster argot. 8 and 10 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SAM BARDFELD'S STUFF SMITH PROJECT (Sunday) Mr. Bardfeld, a violinist with a wide-ranging resume, pays tribute to a swing-era hero of his instrument, with help from the pianist Anthony Coleman and the bassist Brad Jones. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

KENNY BARRON TRIO (Through Sunday) Mr. Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and rhythmically sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting; he's likely to explore at least a few different styles here, with Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $25 tonight and tomorrow, $20 on Sunday, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

FREE ZONE MUSIC SERIES FUND-RAISER (Tuesday) The downtown avatars John Zorn and Lukas Ligeti headline this benefit for a new-music series in Greenpoint, Brooklyn; also on hand are the Refuseniks, a texture-minded collective, and a six-piece group led by the percussionist Andrew Barker. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

CURTIS FULLER/LOUIS HAYES RISING STARS (Through Sunday) Mr. Fuller, the trombonist, and Mr. Hayes, the drummer, were both prominent participants in the golden era of hard bop. Here they join with the pianist John Hicks and the bassist Nat Reeves in spotlighting a couple of young trumpeters on the rise, Maurice Brown and Sean Jones. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25 and $30. (Chinen)

BILLY HARPER QUINTET (Wednesday) Mr. Harper, an inexhaustible tenor saxophonist with a robust modern style, leads a group including the vocalist Judy Bady; the event kicks off the Seventh Annual Central Brooklyn Jazz Festival, taking place at various locations through April. 7 p.m., Sugar Hill Restaurant and Supper Club, 609 DeKalb Avenue, at Nostrand Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, (718) 797-1727, www.centralbrooklynjazz.org; cover, $20. (Chinen)

TOM HARRELL QUINTET (Tuesday through April 2) An introverted but assertive trumpeter, Mr. Harrell leads a modern jazz ensemble with Wayne Escoffery on tenor saxophone, Danny Grissett on piano, Ugonna Okegwo on bass and Johnathan Blake on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20, $25 next Friday and April 1, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ROBIN HOLCOMB QUINTET (Tomorrow) Ms. Holcomb seeks meditative spaces as a pianist and as a singer. Under the banner ''Larks, They Crazy,'' she performs in a pliable ensemble with a pair of clarinetists, Marty Ehrlich and Doug Wieselman. 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

WAYNE HORVITZ (Tonight and Tuesday) A pianist attuned to contrast and texture, Mr. Horvitz has kept the spirit of the downtown scene percolating in Seattle since moving there in the late 1980's. He returns with three different groups: a chamber quartet featuring the accordionist Guy Klucevsek, the cellist Erik Friedlander and the clarinetist Doug Wieselman (tonight at 8); a duo with the multireedist Marty Ehrlich (tonight at 10); and an electro-acoustic trio with the saxophonist Briggan Krauss and the drummer Kenny Wollesen (on Tuesday). Tonight at 8 and 10, Tuesday at 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

FREDDIE HUBBARD AND THE NEW COMPOSERS OCTET (Tonight) The sleek and fiery hard bop of Mr. Hubbard's prime is the source material for this midsize ensemble, which owes much of its coherent drive to the trumpeter and arranger David Weiss; but the center spotlight belongs to Mr. Hubbard, as both a soloist (mainly on fluegelhorn) and as an outsized personality. 8 p.m., Flushing Town Hall, 137-35 Northern Boulevard, Flushing, Queens, (718) 463-7700, ext. 222; $35; members, $25. (Chinen)

JAZZ MUSEUM ALL-STARS (Tonight) Loren Schoenberg -- the saxophonist, pianist, historian and executive director of the Jazz Museum in Harlem -- leads a promising swing band as part of a weekly series at another museum, the Rubin in Chelsea. 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 620-5000, ext. 344, www.rmanyc.org; $15. (Chinen)

'LCJO IN SMALL DOSES' (Tonight and tomorrow) Members of the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra step outside their usual big-band setting. Featured soloists include the trumpeters Marcus Printup and Ryan Kisor; the saxophonists Victor Goines, Joe Temperley and Sherman Irby; and the trombonist Vincent Gardner. 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500; $105.50 and $135.50. (Chinen)

HAROLD MABERN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Hard bop and Memphis soul are inextricable in the music of Mr. Mabern, whose piano provides the focal point of this trio, with the drummer Joe Farnsworth and the bassist Nat Reeves. This engagement serves as Mr. Mabern's 70th-birthday celebration. 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MANHATTAN TRANSFER (Through Sunday) For the last 30 years, this four-piece vocal group has been an adult-pop confection, but one seasoned thoroughly by jazz; nestled within its collective sound there are still particular pleasures, like the alto of Janis Siegel. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $60 at tables, with a $5 minimum, or $45 at the bar, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN McNEIL'S EAST COAST COOL (Tonight and tomorrow night) As on ''East Coast Cool,'' his sharp new OmniTone album, the trumpeter John McNeil presents a group inspired by Gerry Mulligan's pianoless 1950's quartets. Allan Chase fills the baritone saxophone chair, while John Hebert and John Hollenbeck handle bass and drums. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

VICTOR PRIETO TRIO (Tuesday through April 1) The Astor Piazzolla warhorse ''Libertango'' is a too obvious inclusion on ''Persistencia'' (Foxhaven), the new album by the dynamic jazz accordionist Victor Prieto, but there are also numerous originals, on which Mr. Prieto engages winningly with the bassist Carlo DeRosa and the drummer Allison Miller. 11 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $10, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

FLORA PURIM AND AIRTO (Tuesday through April 3) Ms. Purim, a lilting singer, and Airto Moreira, an incantatory percussionist, are the first couple of Brazilian jazz; here they lead a cosmopolitan ensemble consisting of Helio Alves on piano, Nilson Matta on bass and Eric Alexander on tenor saxophone. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., , Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

* SFJAZZ COLLECTIVE (Tuesday through Thursday) The tenor saxophonist Joshua Redman leads this all-star confab, which recently released an excellent second album. Here the eight-piece group, buoyed by the likes of Nicholas Payton on trumpet and Bobby Hutcherson on vibraphone, performs a mix of original material and new arrangements of songs by Ornette Coleman (on Tuesday), John Coltrane (Wednesday) and Herbie Hancock (Thursday). 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $32 to $38. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE GROUP (Tuesday) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms; he showcases his atmospheric compositions in an improvising chamber ensemble that includes Jenny Scheinman on violin, John Ellis on tenor saxophone and Alan Ferber on trombone. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $7. (Chinen)

STEVE SWELL'S UNIFIED THEORY OF SOUND (Thursday) A serious-minded trombonist, Mr. Swell assembles a team of players well suited to his experimental aims: Jemeel Moondoc on alto saxophone, Matt Lavelle on trumpet, Leena Conquest on vocals, Cooper-Moore on piano, William Parker on bass and Chad Taylor on drums. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $10. (Chinen)

* McCOY TYNER WITH SAVION GLOVER (Tonight) The rumbling sweep and pseudo-stride cadence of Mr. Tyner's piano playing should provoke a strong response from Mr. Glover, the paragon of rhythmic tap dance. Opening the show is the groove-oriented Jabane Ensemble, augmented here by the tenor saxophonist Ravi Coltrane. 7:30, Aaron Davis Hall, City College, West 135th Street and Convent Avenue, Hamilton Heights, (212) 650-7100; $25 to $45; members, $21 to $38. (Chinen)

JAMES (BLOOD) ULMER (Tuesday through April 2) The electric guitarist and singer James (Blood) Ulmer fashions an oddly hypnotic combination of influences: Ornette Coleman's polytonality crossed with the psychedelic swagger of Jimi Hendrix, as well as a dash of Memphis blues. He performs next week in several different iterations, including a solo format (on Tuesday) and his reunited three-piece Odyssey band (on Wednesday and Thursday). 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

CEDAR WALTON TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) As a pianist and composer, Mr. Walton heeds an articulate, almost courtly hard bop; he appears here in a trio with the bassist David Williams and the drummer Joe Farnsworth. 9 and 11 p.m., and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'LA BOHEME' (Tonight) James Robinson's production punts the Puccini favorite forward by some 80 years, placing the action in the opening months of World War I and lending an extra tug of pathos. At the first performance, Kelly Kaduce made an appealing Mimi, pairing her character's physical weakness with focused vocal strength. Gerard Powers sang Rodolfo with a solid top but a thinner middle range. Grant Youngblood was a robust Marcello and Shannah Timms a suitably sassy Musetta. Steven White kept things on track in the pit. 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $110.(Jeremy Eichler)

'FIDELIO' (Tonight and Tuesday) The director Jurgen Flimm's strikingly contemporary and deeply humane production of Beethoven's ''Fidelio,'' which opened at the Met in 2000, is back. So is the soprano Karita Mattila, who gives a courageous and vocally radiant portrayal of Leonore, opera's most valiant and devoted wife. The conductor Paul Nadler has taken over for the injured James Levine, who has withdrawn for the rest of the season, and though Mr. Nadler is no Mr. Levine, he does honorable work. Tonight at 8, Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Anthony Tommasini)

'DON GIOVANNI' (Sunday and Thursday) Neither objectionable nor particularly fresh or insightful, Harold Prince's 1989 staging of this great Mozart opera is a good, basic presentation of the work. The New York City Opera's opening cast includes Christopher Schaldenbrand in the title role; Robert Gierlach as Leporello; Hanan Alattar as Zerlina; Orla Boylan as Donna Anna. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $110. (Allan Kozinn)

'LYSISTRATA' (Tomorrow) The composer Mark Adamo's fantastical operatic adaptation of Aristophanes' antiwar comedy had its premiere last year at the Houston Grand Opera. That production is now playing at the New York City Opera. Mr. Adamo's score is bustling and hyper-rhythmic, but sometimes too dense. And the vocal writing is needlessly punishing. Still, he takes seriously the story of Athenian and Spartan women who join forces to refuse their husbands and lovers sex until the men stop waging a seemingly endless war. At its best the opera becomes a somber meditation on the intertwining of passion and aggression. The production is delightful and the youthful cast, despite the challenges of singing the music, wins you over. 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $45 to $110. (Tommasini)

'MAZEPPA' (Tomorrow, Monday and Thursday) Tchaikovsky's epic 1884 opera about the ruthless 17th-century Ukrainian separatist Ivan Mazeppa is an anguished, probing and noble work. The Metropolitan Opera deserves thanks for presenting its first production of this neglected masterpiece, inspiringly conducted by Valery Gergiev. A cast of mostly Russian singers bring conviction and palpable authority to their work, especially the baritone Nikolai Putilin as the wizened Mazeppa and the soprano Olga Guryakova as his impressionable wife. The musical performance is so compelling you can almost ignore Yuri Alexandrov's jumbled and trashy projection, which clutters the opera with symbolism. Tomorrow and Monday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Tommasini)

METROPOLITAN OPERA GRAND FINALS CONCERT (Sunday) Opera professionals have descended on New York in their annual spring migration to hear (and judge) the latest round of talent gleaned from the nationwide Metropolitan Opera Council Auditions. Ben Heppner is the host of the concert of finalists (with a couple of ringers from past years thrown in), and the winners are announced at the end of the show. 3 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; remaining tickets, $25 to $100. (Anne Midgette)

'LUISA MILLER' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Barbara Frittoli canceled the run. Neil Shicoff was sick on opening night. Veronica Villarroel got sick for a subsequent performance. So who knows whom you can expect to hear in Verdi's midperiod opera this week? Ms. Villarroel and Mr. Shicoff are supposed to sing tomorrow, and on Wednesday, the journeyman Eduardo Villa will join a soprano whom even the Met says is yet to be determined. What is sure: Carlos Alvarez, who pumps out sound in a warm unvaried baritone, and James Morris, who takes ''stentorian'' off the pitch chart altogether. Maurizio Benini adds what excitement he can in the pit. Tomorrow and Wednesday night at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $36 to $320 tomorrow, $26 to $320 on Wednesday. (Midgette)

'THE MOST HAPPY FELLA' (Tomorrow) Frank Loesser thought of his 1956 masterpiece ''The Most Happy Fella'' as a ''musical with a lot of music,'' not as an opera. Still, this musically sophisticated and disarming musical is a good fit for the New York City Opera, whose charming production directed by Philip Wm. McKinley ends tomorrow night. The actor Paul Sorvino, making his City Opera debut, inhabits the title role of Tony Esposito, the paunchy, insecure but good-hearted Italian immigrant vineyard owner in Napa Valley of the late 1920's. Mr. Sorvino's voice, though, is pretty raw and shaky. He's at his best when he doesn't care about how he sounds and just lets go. The rest of the cast, mostly from the musical theater world, is wonderful. 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; remaining tickets, $45 to $110. (Tommasini)

'ORPHEUS DESCENDING' (Tonight through Sunday) Bruce Saylor's opera, based on the play by Tennessee Williams and with a libretto by J. D. McClatchy, opened in 1994 and hasn't been seen since. College conservatories are becoming a safe haven for the protection of new operatic work: Queens College, where Mr. Saylor is a professor, is now presenting the work's first-ever revival. Tonight and tomorrow at 8, Sunday afternoon at 3, Goldstein Theater, Colden Center, Queens College, Kissena Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway, Flushing, (718) 793-8080; $20 on Friday and Sunday, $22 tomorrow, $2 discount for 65+. (Midgette)

Classical Music

* BACH COLLEGIUM JAPAN (Monday) This Japanese period-instrument ensemble, led by its founder, Masaaki Suzuki, gave an extraordinarily powerful account of its namesake's ''St. Matthew Passion'' at its Carnegie Hall debut in 2003. It returns without its chorus this time, for an all-Bach program that includes the Orchestral Suite No. 2, the Harpsichord Concerto in D minor, the Concerto for Two Violins and Orchestra in D minor and the ''Brandenburg'' Concerto No. 5. 7:30 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $42 to $55. (Kozinn)

BASICALLY BACH (Tonight and Tuesday) This four-concert festival celebrating the 321st anniversary of Bach's birth got under way last week and concludes with two programs shared by Bach and Handel. Tonight, Richard Westenburg leads the Musica Sacra Orchestra and Elem Eley, a baritone, in selections from the Anna Magdalena Bach Notebook, as well as Bach's ''Brandenburg'' Concerto No. 2 and Handel's ''Water Music'' Suite in G. On Tuesday, the program includes Handel's ''Water Music'' Suite in F along with a motet, cantata and orchestral suite by Bach. 8 p.m., Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, at 73rd Street, (212) 868-4444; $15 to $75. (Kozinn)

* KRONOS QUARTET (Tonight through Sunday) Probably the best things the Kronos Quartet brings to concert life are a breadth of interest in contemporary music and an inventive approach to presenting it. The first of its three concerts this weekend includes Alexandra Du Bois's ''Night Songs,'' a meditation on the early 1940's diaries of Etty Hillesum; Michael Gordon's ''Sad Park,'' which includes recordings of children talking about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and the String Quartet No. 3 by the Polish composer Henryk Gorecki. In the second concert, the Kronos is joined by David Barsamian and Howard Zinn, who will speak about the music that the Kronos is performing, with the group making its repertory choices based on the directions the conversation takes. Also among the guests are the composer-performers Walter Kitundu and Tanya Tagaq Gillis, whose music will be heard. And in the third program, the group explores recent music from Azerbaijan, including works by Franghiz Ali-Zadeh and Rahman Asadollahi, both of whom will perform with the quartet. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $28 to $35. (Kozinn)

JAIME LAREDO AND LEON FLEISHER (Wednesday) Two distinguished musicians, the violinist Jaime Laredo and the pianist Leon Fleisher, play all three of Brahms's violin sonatas, sublime and exciting works that complement each other on a program. 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $35. (Tommasini)

* MAGNUS LINDBERG (Tonight) This fantastic Finnish eclectic is the subject of a Composer Portrait concert that includes his Clarinet Quintet (1992), ''Related Rocks'' (1997), ''Linea d'Ombra'' (1981) and Duo Concertante. Timothy Weiss conducts the International Contemporary Ensemble. 8, Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799; $20. (Kozinn)

SEYMOUR LIPKIN (Monday) A veteran Beethoven interpreter and an eminent pianist who teaches at the Juilliard School and the Curtis Institute of Music, Seymour Lipkin continues his exploration of Beethoven's keyboard works with a recital presented by the American Beethoven Society. The program offers the wildly inventive Fantasy in G minor and the monumental Variations on a Theme of Diabelli. 7 p.m., Lang Recital Hall, Hunter College, North Building, 68th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, (212) 772-4448; $15, $10 seniors/students, $8 members of the American Beethoven Society. (Tommasini)

LONDON PHILHARMONIC (Sunday) ''Musical conductors'' is a popular game this spring season: lots of conductors are canceling, and Kurt Masur is the latest casualty. Replacing him in this weekend's concert is Yan Pascal Tortelier, who will accompany the pianist Garrick Ohlsson in Schumann's Piano Concerto in A, then essay Mahler's First with this fine orchestra. 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $35 to $69. (Midgette)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM ARTISTS IN CONCERT (Tonight) This young chamber group takes on Central European music old and new: Brahms and Schumann, then Schoenberg and Webern. 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 570-3949; $30.(Bernard Holland)

NEW YORK COLLEGIUM (Tonight) Andrew Parrott and his early music ensemble in a program that focuses on the relationship between Telemann and Handel, with Telemann's ''Donner-Ode'' and Part II from Handel's ''Alexander Feast.'' 8 p.m., Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 717-9246; $30 to $50, students $20, 65+ $27. Preconcert talk at 7 p.m. (Eichler)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) This weekend Lorin Maazel leads Schubert's Symphony No. 5, Schoenberg's Variations for Orchestra, ''La Valse'' by Ravel and Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini with the young Venezuelan pianist Gabriela Montero in her Philharmonic debut. Today at 2 p.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m. On Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30, it's Verdi's Requiem. Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5656; $23 to $94. (Eichler)

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) The percussionist Evelyn Glennie will provide the hits, big and little. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $88. (Holland)

SKAMPA STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) This acclaimed ensemble of young musicians from Prague is being presented by the People's Symphony Concerts in a program of quartets by Beethoven and Mozart and, with the violist Scott St. John joined in, Mozart great String Quintet in C, K. 515. Washington Irving High School is a wonderful place to hear chamber music. 8 p.m., Irving Place at 16th Street, (212) 586-4680; $9. (Tommasini)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

AMERICAN REPERTORY BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) This august New Jersey ballet troupe will perform Twyla Tharp's ''Baker's Dozen'' and dances by Lauri Stallings and the company director Graham Lustig in a program that features Carmen de Lavallade as guest artist. 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, www.symphonyspace.org; $15 to $35. The company will also perform Mr. Lustig's ''Beauty and the Beast'' tomorrow at 4 p.m.; $10. (Jennifer Dunning)

BARNARD DANCES AT MILLER (Thursday) Student dancers collaborated with the choreographers Sean Curran, Keely Garfield, Adam Hougland and Colleen Thomas on the program's four premieres. (Through April 1.) 7:30 p.m., Miller Theater, Columbia University, 2960 Broadway, at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799; $15; $6 for 65+. (Dunning)

* ALAIN BUFFARD/PI:ES (Tonight) Mr. Buffard explores the fragility and vulnerability of the body in his new ''Mauvais Genre,'' whose cast includes such downtown-dance luminaries as Jennifer Lacey, DD Dorvillier, Neil Greenberg, John Jasperse, Ishmael Houston-Jones and Lucy Sexton. (Through April 2.) 8:30, Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $20 or T.D.F. voucher. (Dunning)

'SELMA JEANNE COHEN: A TRIBUTE TO HER LIFE AND WORK' (Tomorrow) This free series honoring the work of the dance critic and historian will include ''Pursuit of the Avant-Garde,'' a discussion with Charles Woodford, Nancy Dalva and Camille Hardy. 3 p.m., Bruno Walter Auditorium, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 642-0142. (Dunning)

COMPLEXIONS (Tonight through Sunday) This exuberant modern-dance company will perform a family program that includes a piece set to music by Earth, Wind and Fire. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 563-2266, www.newvictory.org; $10 to $30. (Dunning)

'CROSSING BOUNDARIES' (Tuesday) Dances by Suzanne Goldman, Tal Halevi, Mana Hashimoto and Adele Loux-Turner, chosen by Marcia Monroe, will be performed. 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-0736, www.dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F., $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

CARY CURRAN (Thursday) Ms. Curran's new solo dance theater piece discloses her life after a Roman Catholic upbringing, which has included frolicking naked on a train and having at least 15,000 gay friends. (Through April 8.) 8 p.m., the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, between Fifth Street and Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101; $15. (Queens residents by donation on Thursdays.) (Dunning)

EQUILATERAL THEATER COMPANY AND GUIDANCE PRODUCTIONS (Tonight and tomorrow night) The two organizations will present ''Illuminate,'' an evening of dance and comedy. 8, Mulberry Street Theater, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown, (212) 349-0126; $18; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

KIM IMA (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Ms. Ima's ''Travels, Tours and One-Night Stands'' is a movement theater piece that explores the experiences of those who explore the world. (Through April 9.) Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2:30 and 8 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; $15, T.D.F. vouchers accepted. (Dunning)

NILAS MARTINS DANCE COMPANY (Tomorrow and Sunday) Mr. Martins and the Dicapo Opera Theater will present ''Puccini Passion!,'' an evening of dances set to music by Puccini. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Dicapo Opera Theater, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-9438, ext. 10; $47.50. (Dunning)

* MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Tomorrow) The celebration of Mr. Morris's 25th-anniversary season in and around the Brooklyn Academy of Music comes to a close this weekend. Program C, a mixed bill with two New York premieres, is tonight and tomorrow night. There is also the last of three different programs of small pieces at the Mark Morris Dance Center tomorrow afternoon. And all manner of ancillary events, a schedule for which can be found at www.mmdg.org. At 7:30 p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, www.bam.org; $20 to $70. The ''Solos, Duets and Trios'' program is tomorrow at 5 p.m., Mark Morris Dance Center, 3 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene. (Sold out.) (John Rockwell)

'MOVING AT THE SPEED OF SOUND' (Tonight and tomorrow night) Dances by six female choreographers, chosen by Nicki Marshall, in postmodern, African and tap dance styles. 8, WOW Cafe Theater, 59-61 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 777-4280; $15; $12 for students and artists. (Dunning)

MOVING THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Brennan Gerard and Ryan Kelly explore the consequences of a first encounter between Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud in ''Without.'' 8, Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, between Reade and Chambers Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, www.dnadance.org; $17; $12 for members. (Dunning)

TOMMY NOONAN AND MARY ALICE WHITE (Tonight and tomorrow night) The two create dance and physical theater that explores themes of montage. 9, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (212) 696-6519; $12; $10 for students, artists and 65+. (Cash only.) (Dunning)

TERE O'CONNOR DANCE (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) Audiences and reviewers tend to feel passionately about Mr. O'Connor's choreography, loving or hating it with equal intensity. Somehow Mr. O'Connor has lived through it all and continued to produce dances. This one is called ''Baby,'' which he describes as exploding the metaphor of time passing. You decide. 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25. (Dunning)

OLLOM DANCE THEATER (Thursday) John Ollom celebrates Women's History Month with ''Anatomy of Woman,'' which tells three stories in dance about women. 8 p.m., Clark Studio Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 592-0103; $45. (Dunning)

PERFORMANCE MIX FESTIVAL (Tuesday through Thursday) Karen Bernard, who directs the festival, has chosen dance, music and multidisciplinary works from Italy, Canada, France and the United States (New York City, Minneapolis and Philadelphia) for this 20th-anniversary program. The history of the event will be chronicled in a preperformance video documentary. (Through April 2.) 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 334-7479; $15 or T.D.F. voucher. (Dunning)

* PHOENIX DANCE THEATER (Wednesday and Thursday) One of Britain's leading modern-dance companies, this Leeds-based troupe is led by Darshan Singh Bhuller. It will offer two programs, the first an evening-length work by Mr. Bhuller on Wednesday and April 1, the other a mixed bill on Thursday and next Friday. Wednesday through April 1, 7:30 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, www.montclair.edu/kasser; $35. (Rockwell)

* TERO SAARINEN COMPANY (Tuesday through Thursday) Popular at home and increasingly successful throughout Europe, this Finnish choreographer will present a triple bill that ends with ''Hunt,'' a solo for himself danced to Stravinsky's ''Sacre du Printemps.'' Tuesday through April 1 at 8 p.m., April 2 at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, www.joyce.org; $36. (Rockwell)

SECOND AVENUE DANCE COMPANY (Thursday) Student dancers from the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University will perform premieres by Karole Armitage, Dwight Rhoden and Bill Young, and choreography by Merce Cunningham and Cheryl Therrien. (Through April 3.) 8 p.m., Fifth Floor Theater, Tisch School, 111 Second Avenue, at Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 998-1982; $10; $5 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

THREAD DANCE THEATER (Tomorrow and Sunday) The group's third annual ''Brooklyn Dance Sampler'' program includes dances by 14 companies, individuals, schools and groups, among them the choreographers Jennifer Nugent, Elke Rindfleisch and Tami Stronach (tomorrow). Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 4:30 p.m., BRIC Studio, 57 Rockwell Place, near Fulton Street, , Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 633-5678; $15. (Dunning)

WORK AND SHOW FESTIVAL (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) The festival opens with two programs that include dance by three choreographers. The first program includes Ellis Wood's new ''Pregnant Study No. 3,'' a solo for a pregnant Jennifer Phillips, and Pedro Ruiz's ''Mediterranea -- Labyrinths of Arches and Passions'' (tonight and tomorrow). Christal Brown will present work inspired by the work of Beah Richards (Wednesday and Thursday). (Through April 10.) 7 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 220-1460. Tickets: $10. (Dunning)

* WORKS AND PROCESS: DANCE BY BRIAN REEDER AND KAROLE ARMITAGE (Sunday and Monday) The choreographers created new pieces for this series, to be danced by members of the American Ballet Theater Studio Company and Armitage Gone! Dance, with a discussion moderated by the dance writer Gia Kourlas, who contributes to The New York Times. 8 p.m., Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212) 423-3587, www.worksandprocess.com; $24; $18 for students and 65+. (Sold out.) (Dunning)

* YASUKO YOKOSHI (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Yokoshi will present her new ''what we when we,'' a collaboration with Masumi Seyama VI, a master teacher of Kanjyuro Fujima-style Japanese dance, that was inspired by a short story by Raymond Carver. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, www.danspaceproject.org; $15 or T.D.F. voucher. Also at Danspace, the choreographers Daria Fain and Francisco Rider Pereira da Silva will present a free program tomorrow at 3 p.m. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 14. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. Her works do not lend themselves to easy deciphering, but her magic with materials and her daring compositional imagination draw you in. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

* Brooklyn Museum: WILLIAM WEGMAN: 'FUNNEY/STRANGE,' through May 28. Descended from Marcel Duchamp and Buster Keaton, Mr. Wegman has straddled high and low for more than three decades, using his signature Weimaraners to make the art world's funniest videos, as well as television commercials, calendars and children's books. His popular success has tended to obscure his originality and influence, along with a multifarious production that includes wittily captioned drawings, wonderfully irreverent paintings and a host of nondog photographic work. This thorough and thoroughly entertaining retrospective highlights not only the accessibility of his richly human art, but also its dedication to the 1970's notion that art should not look like art. (See above.) (Roberta Smith)

* Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: 'David Smith: A Centennial,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

* International Center of Photography: 'Snap Judgments: New Positions in Contemporary African Photography,' through May 28. If Martians tuned into our television news broadcasts, they'd have a miserable impression of life on Earth. War, disease, poverty, heartbreak and nothing else. That's exactly how most of the world sees Africa: filtered through images of calamity. The Nigerian-born curator Okwui Enwezor offers a bracing alternative view in this show of recent photography from Africa. He isn't interested in simply exchanging an upbeat Africa for a downbeat one, smiles for frowns, but in engineering a slow, complex, panoptical turn in perspective, one that takes in many moods and directions. The results are stimulating, astringent, brimming with life. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. (Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Art of Medicine in Ancient Egypt,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average life span was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever-present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness were shots in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 or so objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: Robert Rauschenberg: 'Combines,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. It also includes a large selection of prints -- many ingeniously adapted from his oils -- that played an important role in his art. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.) (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

NEUE GALERIE: 'KLEE AND AMERICA,' through May 22. For a long time, the Swiss-born artist Paul Klee (1879-1940), regarded as a leading Modernist figure in Europe, didn't believe his delicate, chimerical work had much of a future in the United States. Yet, thanks to artists, collectors and dealers with close contacts in Germany who had begun to discover his work, by the early 1920's, Klee's impact began to be felt here. This show of more than 60 paintings and drawings assembled exclusively from American holdings covers the wide spectrum of Klee's work, from his dense, Cubist-style oil, ''When God Considered the Creation of the Plants'' (1913), to a beautifully stylized rendering of the jazz singer and dancer Josephine Baker (1927) to labyrinthine compositions like ''Or the Mocked Mocker'' (1930). 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200. (Glueck)

P.S. 1: Jessica Stockholder: 'Of Standing Float Roots in Thin Air,' through May 1. A soaring, cannily designed installation -- made of airborne plastic bins, electric lights, orange extension cords and an old armchair topping a wooden tower -- by a sculptor known for orchestrating productive collisions of formalism and consumerism. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Ken Johnson)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2006: DAY FOR NIGHT,' through May 28. This biennial will provoke much head-scratching by uninitiated visitors. A hermetic take on what has been making waves, it's packaged -- branded might be the better word -- as a show long on collaboration and open-endedness: several shows under one roof, including a revival of the 1960's ''Peace Tower,'' which rises like a Tinker Toy construction from the Whitney courtyard, with contributions by dozens of artists. As a counter to the image of the art world as rich, youth-besotted and obsessed with crafty little nothings, the ethos here is provisional, messy, half-baked, cantankerous, insular -- radical qualities art used to have when it could still call itself radical and wasn't like a barnacle clinging to the cruise ship of pop culture. That was back in the 1970's. And much of what's here (including works by bohemians and other senior eccentrics around then) harks back to that moment. Beauty is hard to come by. Check out, among other things, Paul Chan's digital animation of shadowy objects like cellphones and bicycles, floating upward, Wizard of Oz-like, while bodies tumble down, the work cast as if it were light from a tall window slanting onto the floor of a dark room. And also Pierre Huyghe's film, shot in Antarctica and Central Park. It's really gorgeous: crosscut between day and night, fiction and reality, it encapsulates the show's operative but ultimately airy metaphor about the slippery state of art now. (''Day for Night'' is the biennial's first-ever title, after the Francois Truffaut film.) 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (800) 944-8639 or www.whitney.org. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

Tony Cragg: 'Five Bottles' In the early 1980's, this eminent English sculptor made flat, mosaiclike works out of found colored plastic objects and fragments. This show presents a set of five wall-works, each representing a different giant colored bottle composed of toys, combs, cigarette lighters and other pieces of ordinary commercial detritus. Vivian Horan, 35 East 67th Street, (212) 517-9410, through April 21. (Johnson)

Jim Shaw: 'My Mirage 1986- 91' This amazingly inventive California-based artist first became widely known for a series of about 170 works, all measuring 17 by 14 inches, that chronicles the life of a white suburban boy named Billy, from innocent youth to druggy degradation to born-again salvation. The 30 pieces from the series in this show variously imitate comic strips, acid-rock posters, thrift store paintings, comic greeting cards and many other pop culture forms. Skarstedt, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 737-2060, through April 1. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

Darren Almond /Janice Kerbel: 'The Impossible Landscape' Nothing is obvious in this handsome show of works by two London-based Conceptualists. The connection is that both make visible things that are in different ways impossible. Ms. Kerbel's elegantly abstracted designs for gardens in an office, a Laundromat and other unlikely places are meant to be imagined but never actually built. Mr. Almond's sumptuous, subtly eerie landscape photographs were shot at night using long exposures, making visible what would be invisible to the naked eye. The Horticultural Society of New York, 128 West 58th Street, (212) 757-0915, through May 5. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

* MARK LECKeY: 'DRUNKEN BAKERS' This cinematically gifted British artist raises his game with a stop-action animation made by simply shooting a raunchy, well-drawn comic strip for adults in close-up, turning its speech balloons into spoken dialogue and adding realistic sound effects. Shown in an increasingly grubby white-on-white cube, the work is elegantly efficient, funny and dark, and adds another twist to the convoluted history of appropriation art. GBE@Passerby, 436 West 15th Street, (212) 627-5258, through April 22. (Smith)

Rachel Whiteread: 'Bibliography' Cardboard boxes cast in plaster are displayed in monotonous profusion singly and in groups by this British sculptor who once made a concrete cast of the inside of a whole house. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9100, through April 1. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed; punk and new wave rock assailed the ears; graffiti spread like kudzu; and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her deathbed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. Granted that much of Downtown was throwaway stuff, too ephemeral and experimental to last, for better or for worse, it helped to change the definition of what art and artists might be. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* Anya Gallaccio: 'One Art' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

Last Chance

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' . The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hard wired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040; closes Sunday. (Smith)

* Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'FASHION IN COLORS' Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh, color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400; closes Sunday. (Smith)

* William Nicholson Though less well known than his son, the British abstract painter Ben Nicholson, Sir William Nicholson was a successful artist in his day. The mostly small landscapes, portraits and Chardinesque still lifes in this beautiful show offer transporting fusions of paint and imagery. Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

Barbara Probst Ms. Probst displays pairs and groups of photographs made using electronically connected cameras able to shoot scenes from different angles at exactly the same time. Seeing a family crossing the street in black and white from the top of a building and close-up in color from street level creates a philosophically intriguing collapse of the normal space-time continuum. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7372; closes tomorrowthrough March 25. (Johnson)

THE STUDIO VISIT The studio visit, a time-honored ritual that everyone in the art world has both endured and learned from, is taken to its limit in Exit Art's latest exhibition marathon. Each of the 160 mostly short videos represents one artist's idea of, play on, or substitute for, a studio visit. It is a show that often cries out for a fast-forward button, but there are some notable gems -- for example, by Joyce Pensato, Cynthia von Buhler, Ida Applebroog, Bruce Pearson, Lance Wakeling, Taylor McKimens, Paul Wirhun, Elisabeth Kley, Christy Gast and Kim Jones. Exit Art, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 966-7745; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Above, Jennifer Phillips in ''Pregnant Study No. 3,'' in the Work and Show Festival at the TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Page 24. (Photographs by Jeffrey Ladd)
LAST CHANCE -- Left, Cate Blanchett ends her sold-out ''Hedda Gabler'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Page 22. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)
 JAZZ -- James (Blood) Ulmer mixes Ornette Coleman, Jimi Hendrix and a dash of Memphis blues, at the Jazz Standard, Page 23. (Photo by Robert Spencer/Retna Ltd.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); DRAMA FILMS (77%); MUSIC (77%); POP & ROCK (72%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (57%); CATE BLANCHETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



495 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Dublin Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Irish Eyes Are Winking, You Can Hear the Angels Laugh

BYLINE: By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, March 23 

 BODY:
At some point in each episode of his reality TV series, Des Bishop is sure to walk onto the stage of a grimy pub in a rough neighborhood, beam out at the crowd and say exactly what it doesn't want to hear.
 In Belfast, he told a bristling Protestant audience that they were more like their hated Roman Catholic neighbors than they liked to admit. 
In Southill, an area of Limerick known for boarded-up houses and burned-out cars, he boasted that his show would support the area by attracting tourists whom locals could rob.
 Maybe because a camera was present, the crowds refrained from hurling pint glasses at Mr. Bishop, a 30-year-old American. Instead, they laughed. As he kept spouting jokes and insults, they kept on laughing.
 It seems that all of Ireland has been watching his stand-up comedy and caustic brand of reality TV. His satire contains no-holds-barred discussions of class divisions, immigration and the drinking problem. He encourages and sometimes forces people to confront their hypocrisies.
 Over coffee in a Dublin hotel, Mr. Bishop spoke of himself in an unexpectedly mild voice. ''I did always see myself as some sort of an agitator,'' he said.
 Like African-American comedians who joke about racism, he helps take the sting out of prejudices here.
 ''It's humanizing,'' Fintan O'Toole, the critic and Irish Times columnist, said of Mr. Bishop's work. ''He allows people to emerge from the stereotypes, and to play with those stereotypes themselves.''
 Mr. Bishop's TV series, which recently had a six-week run on RTE, Ireland's national broadcaster, earned impressive ratings by offering an honest glimpse inside groups that are usually ignored. 
 The cameras followed him as he lived in tough housing projects, ran stand-up comedy workshops for residents and showcased the results in a performance by his trainees, usually in a shabby pub, with Mr. Bishop as the uncompromising emcee. It is a gritty comedy version of ''American Idol.''
 While living in those areas he took part in some bizarre customs, like hunting rabbits with flashlights and mangy greyhounds (and cooking the catch for dinner); throwing appliances out the windows of abandoned tower-blocks; and amateur boxing (in which he broke a rib). 
 For some, Mr. Bishop hits a raw nerve rather than the funny bone.
 After an episode about Knocknaheeny, in Cork, politicians and news organizations accused him of overemphasizing the area's deprivation, and of exploiting hardship for laughs. One Cork newspaper printed a full-page demand that he apologize; call-in radio shows argued it for two days before banning the subject. (He replied that politicians had previously been happy to ignore that deprivation and that he gave people in the area a voice.) 
 ''I wanted to do stuff that's in some way conscious of an issue,'' he said. ''I did cherish the day when I would be able to stand up and really make some serious points. I didn't see it coming this fast, though.''
 Mr. Bishop has lived in Ireland since he was 14. He was expelled from school in Flushing, Queens, for unruly behavior and his immigrant father, who had family in Ireland, enrolled him at a boarding school in Wexford. He later attended the state university in Cork, where he gave his first comic performance.
 Since those years, the country has experienced a quiet social revolution, stoked by economic growth, cultural openness and newfound national confidence. When he arrived, thousands of young Irish were emigrating each year, and sex scandals had yet to loosen the Catholic Church's grip on public morality.
 ''I was given the tiniest little taste of the old Ireland,'' he said.
 He speaks in a broad New Yorker's accent but slips easily into the subtle Irish regional brogues. He also knows Ireland astutely enough to tackle its foibles head on.
 He describes himself unapologetically as a ghetto voyeur, who grew up admiring his mother for her work in New York's homeless shelters. When he camps in a rough neighborhood, residents take to him, crediting him with living in areas that many people avoid even in daylight.
 Mr. Bishop said he forswore alcohol at 19, when he realized he was becoming an alcoholic.
 Those experiences, and the volunteer work he does at addiction centers and prisons, strongly influence his frequent live performances.
 ''Ireland was booming in the late 90's, and that's when I was coming into my own as a comedian who was doing what he wanted to do, rather than just looking for laughs,'' he said. ''Issues of inequality were just out there, and those were the things that started to run in my mind.''
 That perspective is one reason Mr. Bishop likes to boast about the off-camera successes of his current TV show. For instance, his workshop students in the notorious Ballymun neighborhood in Dublin continued running comedy nights after the cameras left. The best comics became warm-up acts on Mr. Bishop's national tour.
 But he dislikes being branded an activist. ''Fundamentally, my job is to make people laugh,'' he said. ''I find it a bonus that there are certain elements that have a greater use than just making people laugh. It's just like a little reminder, refreshing people's minds a little bit.''
 And laugh they do. His current tour included 21 consecutive nights at the 1,000-seat opera house in Cork, a city of barely 150,000. Every performance sold out (and, after his spat with the politicians, almost every night ended with a standing ovation, he said).
 At more than six feet tall and with a big impish grin, he enjoys a loyal following among admiring Irishwomen, and others who appreciate his anti-establishment attitude. He cannot walk down a street in Ireland without being stopped by fans who ask him to pose for their cellphone cameras.
 ''It couldn't get any better,'' he said. ''I'm not sick of it yet.''
 His popularity is not as keen outside Ireland. Mr. Bishop's DVD's are watched in Irish bars in New York, but he would like to perform there more. 
 ''In people's perceptions, I'm still the outsider, as much as I am an Irishman now in my mind,'' he said. ''Which is fine by me, because I like being the Irish-American. That's what I am, you know?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Des Bishop, an American comedian in Ireland, teaches amateurs how to make jokes by mocking hypocrisy. (Photo by Derek Speirs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); RELIGION (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); RACE & RACISM (70%); IMMIGRATION (67%); WRITERS (64%); AMATEUR SPORTS (50%); BOXING (50%) Comedy and Humor; Irish-Americans

PERSON: Brian Lavery; Des Bishop

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (91%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (91%); IRELAND (90%) Ireland; Ireland

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



496 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Master of Slow And Deliberate At Ground Zero 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A half-hour before a midnight deadline, the developer Larry A. Silverstein strode into the conference room on the 15th floor of the Port Authority's Park Avenue offices, took off his coat and gulped down two cups of coffee, ready for the next round of talks about the future of ground zero. 
 State officials and Port Authority executives said later that they thought the late-night session on March 14 would complete the grueling negotiations that had dragged on for months, including 18 hours of bargaining earlier that day.
So they were shocked by the proposal Mr. Silverstein delivered. They said he was once again raising issues that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the owner of the 16-acre site, had declared off the table. They said Mr. Silverstein was, among other things, seeking tens of millions of dollars in additional financial concessions. 
 Kenneth J. Ringler, the authority's executive director, stormed into the conference room, telling Mr. Silverstein and his entourage, ''It's over.''
 Over? A look at Mr. Silverstein's long career in real estate and the negotiating style that has defined it suggests that, when it comes to making deals, it is almost never over. Not surprising, then, despite last week's ugly negotiating episode, Mr. Silverstein's team has been talking through back channels with the other side this week. 
 Mr. Silverstein has said he fully expects to be back at the table within days to sign a deal that preserves his control over a major part of ground zero, a site that many consider sacred ground. State officials hope to resume face-to-face negotiations with him, too, but not until there is a fairly detailed agreement. 
 Mr. Silverstein, 74, adopted his stubborn ''negotiate till they drop'' style a half-century ago while working in his father's tiny real estate shop on Lower Broadway. It has caused frustration over the years, but ultimately it has made him a multimillionaire. He got his start as what is known in the trade as a syndicator, someone who rounds up investors to buy a building, operates it for a fee while taking a stake for himself, and puts up little or none of his own money. 
 What has distinguished him is a penchant for endless negotiations to enhance his position. His partner in the 50's and 60's, Bernard H. Mendik, regaled friends decades later with stories about going to an afternoon closing on the purchase of a building with Mr. Silverstein. ''But at midnight, Larry still had two or three issues,'' several friends recall Mr. Mendik saying, half jokingly. ''You could not close a deal.'' 
 Those comments might be dismissed as the residue of resentments caused by the end of their partnership, which shattered after Mr. Mendik, who died in May 2001, divorced Mr. Silverstein's sister. Still, even Mr. Silverstein's friends do not describe him much differently. 
 One of them, Jonathan L. Mechanic, an influential real estate lawyer, represented the Academy of Sciences, which leased space at the developer's recently completed tower at 7 World Trade Center.
 ''It's wasn't the quickest road to completion,'' Mr. Mechanic said of the discussions, ''but completion did occur. He's a tenacious negotiator. He's also an optimist about his ability to consummate a transaction. But he doesn't give anything away.''
 Mr. Silverstein very much disagrees with the common take on his negotiating style. ''I don't view it that way,'' he said Wednesday. ''I look back on a lifetime of transactions consummated. I learned a long time ago that negotiation is a matter of give and take.''
 His name never quite made it into the pantheon of New York developers like Durst, Rudin, Resnick and Speyer. His greatest triumph came in July 2001 when, as a dark-horse contestant, he outmaneuvered more powerful developers with more resources to take control of the World Trade Center in one of the biggest real estate deals of all time. Terrorists brought down the towers two months later.
 Now at that very site, his negotiating style has state officials making him a scapegoat for failure. Last week, Gov. George E. Pataki, the developer's principal political ally at ground zero, charged that Mr. Silverstein had failed to bargain in good faith. Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and the governor's chief economic development official, called him ''greedy.''
 Civic leaders have complained that Mr. Silverstein has treated the complex negotiations like any other deal, ignoring the keen public interest. ''Clearly this is not any ordinary development project and this is not any ordinary lease,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. ''The public's expectations for this site, the emotions and the global focus here, is unlike any other project. To suggest that this is just another real estate deal misses the point.'' 
 Mr. Silverstein heatedly disputed that criticism.
 ''That's ridiculous,'' he said. ''It's easy to point fingers at somebody who's not at fault. The only motivation here is to rebuild. I believe that's important for the city and the region.''
 He blames the Port Authority and other government entities for the delays.
 ''We've been here for five years, and the only thing we have to show for it,'' he said, ''is 7 World Trade Center.'' He built the original 47-story tower in the 80's. After it was destroyed on Sept. 11, he was tenacious in battling with both his insurer and his landlord to rebuild it. But his stubborn streak also came into play. He insisted on setting rents that were 40 percent higher than the average for the downtown market. A 2002 plan to make the Port Authority the anchor tenant fell apart when he asked for twice the rent it had paid in the old trade center. Today, less than one-fifth of the tower is leased.
 Ground zero has been a complex matter involving the sometimes competing interests of the families of victims, insurers, the Port Authority, and state and city officials. At one point or another, Mr. Silverstein has tangled with all of them. 
 The latest drama was prompted by the scheduled groundbreaking in April for the Freedom Tower, the largest, most symbolic and least economically viable of the five towers planned for the site. In addition, state and city officials and Port Authority executives came to realize that the project would cost more than $7 billion, while there was only $2.9 billion in insurance money available.
 Mr. Silverstein insists to this day that he can do the entire job, but he has failed to convince Port Authority executives, the Pataki administration, or Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The mayor has raised the possibility that Mr. Silverstein would run out of money in 2009 after building only two towers, default on his lease and walk away from a half-finished project with tens of millions in profit.
 Mr. Bloomberg called for a major realignment at ground zero, pointing out that in 2003 Mr. Silverstein and his investors were repaid most if not all the money they had invested in the original deal. The developer himself put up only $14 million in a deal valued at $3.2 billion. 
 ''He's playing with the house's money and, nothing wrong with that, but let's not feel too bad here,'' Mr. Bloomberg said on his weekly radio show last Friday.
 Mr. Silverstein rejected an initial proposal from the authority to split up the site, saying he did not want to surrender the most valuable parcels at ground zero. Five hours before the negotiations came to an impasse on March 14, both sides say they were close to a deal that would have had the authority taking control of the Freedom Tower and another building site, Site 5. More important, there had been progress on a financial arrangement. 
 After the impasse, Mr. Silverstein submitted a new version of the deal that both sides had nearly adopted, but state and authority officials say it included a new demand: he wanted the authority's second site back.
 Mr. Ringler of the authority met Wednesday and yesterday with Mr. Silverstein's lawyer, Martin Lipton, to discuss going back to the original framework. A third session is planned for today. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Silverstein was conceding nothing, talking as if his control of the entire site is not in jeopardy.
 ''Everybody so desperately wants to see this move forward and get it done,'' he said. ''The Freedom Tower is moving forward as we promised.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Talks between the developer Larry A. Silverstein and city and state officials reached an impasse last week. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HIJACKING (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%) Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Larry A Silverstein; George E (Gov) Pataki; Charles A Gargano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



497 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Mayor of Gary Announces Resignation After 11 Years

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 23 

 BODY:
Scott L. King, the mayor of Gary, Ind., who tried through three terms to reverse the decline of his long-struggling city, announced his resignation Thursday after 11 years in office, saying he needed to earn more money to finish paying for his children's college education. 
 ''I have to do my family first,'' Mr. King said at a news conference also attended by his wife and three children.
Mr. King, a 54-year-old former criminal defense lawyer, overcame opposition from some black leaders in his predominantly black city to become its first white mayor in more than 20 years when he was elected in 1995. But he became popular enough in office to win easy re-election twice. 
 He tried to revitalize an economy left bereft by the shrinking of the steel industry and to boost the image of Gary despite its boarded-up buildings and high crime rate. He brought in a basketball team, a new baseball stadium and, briefly, the Miss USA Pageant in hopes of increasing jobs, revenue and local morale in the city of just over 100,000 residents. 
 He was among the first mayors in the country to file lawsuits against gun manufacturers to try to rein in the violence that plagued Gary's streets. Ever a champion of his city, Mr. King threatened a national boycott of FedEx after it said it would stop delivering packages to the city after dark. (The company reversed course after his threat.) 
 He said at the news conference that he had hesitated even to run for a third term, and had decided now that with almost two years to go in that term that he needed to earn more than his $107,000 salary, especially as his third child prepared to go to college. 
 Mr. King, a former Democrat, declared himself an independent last year after a split with local Democratic Party officials. Members of his administration had faced a federal corruption inquiry beginning in 2003, but Mr. King was never implicated. Charges against the highest official to be charged, Deputy Mayor Geraldine Tousant, were dropped this year. 
 Ms. Tousant stepped down earlier this week, and Mr. King appointed Dozier Allen Jr. of Calumet Township, a former trustee, as deputy mayor. 
 Mr. Allen will take over as acting mayor on Friday. Precinct leaders from the city will meet within 30 days to choose a new leader, and Mr. Allen has said he would like to be considered.
 Mr. King said he would go back into private practice and work as a consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); FAMILY (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); LITIGATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BASEBALL (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); LAWYERS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FIREARMS (51%); BOYCOTTS (50%) Mayors

PERSON: Kate Zernike; Scott L (Mayor) King

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Gary (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



498 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: What's Bad for G.M.

 BODY:
General Motors is in deep trouble. Each attempt to pull itself out seems to draw only more attention to how far it has sunk. It would be easy to write off the company, but we can't. We all want to see G.M. get out of this. 
 The automaker has long been an icon of the American middle class. G.M.'s current problems remind us of how the disappearing blue-collar middle class struggles mightily to fend for itself in the face of stagnant wages and job insecurity. When the automaker extends a blanket offer to buy out every one of its 113,000 unionized workers in the United States, as it did earlier this week, its troubles are the embodiment of our fears. G.M. worsens the nagging worry about an America without the kinds of jobs that can provide the salaries needed to support families, good health care and a secure retirement.
 As its market share has fallen, G.M. has needed fewer and fewer workers. It has even paid many to be idle. The buyout plan is logical and entirely voluntary. We hope that enterprising workers of all ages use it as a springboard to new livelihoods. For the company they will be leaving, our best wish is for it to make better cars. Right now the automaker merges the industrial failure of uninspired designs with the systemic failure of out-of-control costs, suggesting a bleak future. Cutting costs will help G.M. stay afloat, but will not turn it back into a success. 
 All of G.M.'s problems cannot be traced to unimaginative gas-guzzling vehicles. There is also the matter of health care. Soaring health care costs are a competitive disaster for companies like G.M., which covers 1.1 million workers, retirees and dependents across all 50 states to the tune of $5.4 billion for last year alone. In a global economy, America competes at an enormous disadvantage when businesses overseas can rely on national health care to pick up costs that individual corporations must shoulder here. 
 If the country shudders at the idea of giving up on G.M., it should really fear the structural problems facing employers, from local governments and small businesses to conglomerates. We can turn away and avoid those problems for a bit longer, or tackle them head-on. That will require political bravery in Washington, always a precious rarity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (65%) Labor; Editorials; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



499 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Worried About India's and China's Booms? So Are They

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The more I cover foreign affairs, the more I wish I had studied education in college, because the more I travel, the more I find that the most heated debates in many countries are around education. And here's what's really funny -- every country thinks it's behind. 
 Tony Blair has been fighting with his own party over permitting more innovative charter schools. Singapore is obsessed with improving its already world-leading math scores before others catch up. And America agonizes that its K-12 public schools badly need improvement in math and science. I was just in Mumbai attending the annual meeting of India's high-tech association, Nasscom, where many speakers worried aloud that Indian education wasn't nurturing enough ''innovators.'' 
Both India and China, which have mastered rote learning and have everyone else terrified about their growing armies of engineers, are wondering if too much math and science -- unleavened by art, literature, music and humanities -- aren't making Indira and Zhou dull kids and not good innovators. Very few global products have been spawned by India or China.
 ''We have no one going into the liberal arts and everyone going into engineering and M.B.A.'s,'' said Jerry Rao, chief executive of MphasiS, one of the top Indian outsourcing companies. ''We're becoming a nation of aspiring programmers and salespeople. If we don't have enough people with the humanities, we will lose the [next generation of] V. S. Naipauls and Amartya Sens,'' he added, referring to the Indian author and the Indian economist, both Nobel laureates. ''That is sad and dangerous.''
 Innovation is often a synthesis of art and science, and the best innovators often combine the two. The Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, in his compelling Stanford commencement address last year, recalled how he dropped out of college but stuck around campus and took a calligraphy course, where he learned about the artistry of great typography. ''None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life,'' he recalled. ''But 10 years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me. And we designed it all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography.''
 Fifty years ago the Sanskrit scholar was respected in India, Mr. Rao noted, but today it is all about becoming an engineer, a programmer, an M.B.A. or a doctor. ''More people will get Ph.D.'s [in the study of] Sanskrit in America this year than in India,'' Mr. Rao asserted, ''and Sanskrit is the root of our culture!'' 
 Why all this ed-anxiety today? Because computers, fiber-optic cable and the Internet have leveled the economic playing field, creating a global platform that more workers anywhere can now plug into and play on. Capital will now flow faster than ever to tap the most productive talent wherever it is located, so every country is scrambling to upgrade its human talent base. When everyone has access to the same technology platform, human talent, as the consultants John Hagel III and John Seely Brown wrote, is the ''only sustainable edge.''
 Hence the concern I found in India that it must move quickly from business process outsourcing (B.P.O.) -- running back rooms, answering phones or writing code for U.S. companies -- into knowledge process outsourcing (K.P.O.): coming up with more original designs and products. 
 ''We need to encourage more incubation of ideas to make innovation a national initiative,'' said Azim Premji, the chairman of Wipro, one of India's premier technology companies. ''Are we as Indians creative? Going by our rich cultural heritage, we have no doubt some of the greatest art and literature. We need to bring the same spirit into our economic and business arena.''
 But to make that leap, Indian entrepreneurs say, will require a big change in the rigid, never-challenge-the-teacher Indian education system. ''If we do not allow our students to ask why, but just keep on telling them how, then we are only going to get the transactional type of outsourcing, not the high-end things that require complex interactions and judgment to understand another person's needs,'' said Nirmala Sankaran, C.E.O. of HeyMath, an Indian-based education company. ''We have a creative problem in this country.''
 My guess is that we're at the start of a global convergence in education: China and India will try to inspire more creativity in their students. America will get more rigorous in math and science. And this convergence will be a great spur to global growth and innovation. It's a win-win. But some will win more than others -- and it will be those who get this balance right the fastest, in the most schools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); WRITERS (67%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Education and Schools; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Education and Schools

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%); STEVEN JOBS (50%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (57%) INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



500 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Speak Softly and Carry a Smaller Stick

BYLINE: By Andrew Kohut. 
Andrew Kohut is the president of the Pew Research Center and co-author of the forthcoming ''Americans Against the World.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
''WE shouldn't allow isolationism and protectionism to overwhelm us,'' said President Bush in his press conference on Tuesday, building on the concerns that he expressed in his State of the Union address about Americans turning inward. 
 Recent opinion surveys affirm that isolationist sentiment has increased in recent years. Notably, a survey by my center and the Council on Foreign Relations last fall reported that the percentage of the public who said that the United States should ''mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own'' rose to levels seen during the mid-1970's, following the Vietnam War, and in the 1990's after the cold war ended. And a companion poll of opinion leaders found that they, too, had become less supportive of the United States playing a world leadership role. 
But while these trends represent significant shifts in attitudes, it would be a mistake to conclude that this country is becoming isolationist. There is no sign that most Americans want the United States to turn its back on the world or that anti-foreign sentiment in this country is rising. Discontent with Mr. Bush's policies, notably on Iraq, has led to widespread public frustration. And while it has also created more isolationists, they remain a minority. 
 The number of Pew respondents agreeing that the United States should mind its own business and let other countries get along as best they can climbed to 42 percent last year from 34 percent in 2004. Agreement with this statement has been roughly this high only twice in the last four decades: in 1976 and in 1995. Now as then, however, most Americans continue to disagree with this sentiment. And huge majorities, including many who express some isolationist sentiments, believe that the United States should consider the views of its allies in making foreign policy, and they acknowledge America's leadership role in the world given its power. 
 Polls also find no rise in broad-based anti-foreign sentiment. Americans, in fact, rate most countries more favorably than people in other countries rate the United States. For example, a February Gallup survey showed 54 percent of the public holding a favorable view of France and 79 percent a favorable opinion of Germany. In contrast, just 41 percent of the Germans and 43 percent of the French expressed favorable views of the United States in last year's Pew Global Attitudes Survey.
 Further, there is no sign of increased alarm about rivals to the United States. Americans are less inclined now than in the past to view China as an adversary, and few express worries about its rising economic might. In addition, Americans favor a stronger European Union and closer relations with Europe. Fully 66 percent of Americans think the United States and Western European partnership on security and diplomatic matters should remain as close it has been the past. But only 26 percent of the French, 39 percent of the German and 42 percent of the British respondents felt the same way in our survey.
 Even right after the uproar over the bid by a Dubai-based company to take over facilities in American ports, Americans continue to welcome foreign investment and are much less worried about foreign ownership of American companies than they were at the end of the 1980's. The rejection of the Dubai ports deal appears to reflect not xenophobia but a deep concern about Arab terrorism. While a narrow majority of respondents (53 percent) to a Pew survey last week expressed a negative view of foreign investors owning American companies, 70 percent did so in 1989, when high-profile acquisitions of American businesses by Japanese companies provoked widespread concern.
 Moreover, by a 53 percent to 36 percent margin, Americans view foreign companies investing in the United States as a good thing. And more generally, two-thirds of Americans (66 percent) believe free trade is good for the United States. This view is largely unchanged since 2000, even though public concern about the outsourcing of American jobs has risen sharply. 
 All this shows that America's current mood is less a rejection of the rest of the world than it is a deep concern about terrorism and a growing wariness about America's own assertive foreign policy. In particular, there is little potential support for the use of force against Iran. And more generally, the American experience in Iraq has reduced support for pre-emptive wars. The belief that it is justifiable to use military force against countries that threaten us but have not attacked us fell from 67 percent in May 2003, when the war in Iraq seemed a success, to just 52 percent last fall. 
 Unfortunately, the uptick in isolationism has the potential for dangerous political consequences. In an election year, politicians in both parties (each of which has significant isolationist minorities) may feel mistakenly compelled to play to strong sentiments that do not reflect the beliefs of the majority, urging the United States to pull back on its global commitments, move away from free trade and close its borders. More dangerously in this age of terrorism, the president may well need to pursue policies that are assertive, if not costly. If he does, and even with the best of intentions, he may not find the requisite support. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
In Friday's Op-Ed article about isolationism: Andrew Kohut's forthcoming book is ''America Against the World,'' not ''Americans Against the World.''
In Friday's Op-Ed article about isolationism: Andrew Kohut's forthcoming book is ''America Against the World,'' not ''Americans Against the World.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TRENDS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%) Pew Research Center

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Andrew Kohut; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



501 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Letter To the Secretary

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Dear John Snow, secretary of the Treasury:
 I'm glad that you've started talking about income inequality, which in recent years has reached levels not seen since before World War II. But if you want to be credible on the subject, you need to make some changes in your approach.
First, you shouldn't claim, as you seemed to earlier this week, that there's anything meaningful about the decline in some measures of inequality between 2000 and 2003. Every economist realizes that, as The Washington Post put it, ''much of the decline in inequality during that period reflected the popping of the stock market bubble,'' which led to a large but temporary fall in the incomes of the richest Americans. 
 We don't have detailed data for more recent years yet, but the available indicators suggest that after 2003, incomes at the top and the overall level of inequality came roaring back. That surge in inequality explains why, despite your best efforts to talk up the economic numbers, most Americans are unhappy with the Bush economy. 
 I find it helpful to illustrate what's going on with a hypothetical example: say 10 middle-class guys are sitting in a bar. Then the richest guy leaves, and Bill Gates walks in.
 Because the richest guy in the bar is now much richer than before, the average income in the bar soars. But the income of the nine men who aren't Bill Gates hasn't increased, and no amount of repeating ''But average income is up!'' will convince them that they're better off.
 Now think about what happened in 2004 (the figures for 2005 aren't in yet, but it was almost certainly more of the same). The economy grew reasonably fast in 2004, but most families saw little if any improvement in their financial situation. 
 Instead, a small fraction of the population got much, much richer. For example, Forbes tells us that the compensation of chief executives at the 500 largest corporations rose 54 percent in 2004. In effect, Bill Gates walked into the bar. Average income rose, but only because of rising incomes at the top.
 Speaking of executive compensation, Mr. Snow, it hurts your credibility when you say, as you did in a recent interview, that soaring pay for top executives reflects their productivity and that we should ''trust the marketplace.'' Executive pay isn't set in the marketplace; it's set by boards that the executives themselves appoint. And executives' pay often bears little relationship to their performance.
 You yourself, as you must know, are often cited as an example. When you were appointed to your present job, Forbes pointed out that the performance of the company you had run, CSX, was ''middling at best.'' Nonetheless, you were ''by far the highest-paid chief in the industry.''
 And the business careers of other prominent members of the administration, including the president and vice president, seem to demonstrate the truth of the adage that it's not what you know, it's who you know. So my advice on the question of executive pay is: don't go there.
 Finally, you should stop denying that the Bush tax cuts favor the wealthy. I know that administration number-crunchers have produced calculations purporting to show that the tax cuts were tilted toward the middle class. But using the right measure -- the effect of the tax cuts on after-tax income -- the bias toward the haves and have-mores is unmistakable.
 According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, once the Bush tax cuts are fully phased in, they will raise the after-tax income of middle-income families by 2.3 percent. But they will raise the after-tax income of people like yourself, with incomes of more than $1 million, by 7.3 percent.
 And those calculations don't take into account the indirect effects of tax cuts. If the tax cuts are made permanent, they'll eventually have to be offset by large spending cuts. In practical terms, that means cuts where the money is: in Social Security and Medicare benefits. Since middle-income Americans will feel the brunt of these cuts, yet received a relatively small tax break, they'll end up worse off. But the wealthy will be left considerably wealthier.
 Of course, my suggestions about how to improve your credibility would force you to stop repeating administration talking points. But you're the secretary of the Treasury. Your job is to make economic policy, not to spout propaganda. Oh, wait. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) United States Economy; Public Opinion; Income; Taxation; United States Economy

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman; John W (Sec) Snow; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



502 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: TV and Top Marketers Discuss the State of the Medium 

BYLINE: By Julie Bosman

 BODY:
AMONG themselves, advertising executives often declare the 30-second spot dead. But to hear television executives tell it, not only does television remain a potent medium, but those little ads are still going strong. 
 The future of television advertising was the main topic of discussion at a conference of the Association of National Advertisers on Wednesday, meant as a prelude to the upfront market in May. That is when television networks introduce new programming and companies reconsider the division of their advertising dollars among print, television, Internet and other media.
The problem for television advertising is that many companies have begun devoting larger portions of their advertising budgets to the Internet, streaming video and even cellphone ads. Some speakers at the conference argued that despite the flaws in television ads -- viewers are increasingly ignoring them by simultaneously using the Internet or instant-messaging and employing ad-skipping devices like the digital video recorder -- television is still a strong medium for ad messages. 
 But the results of a study announced at the conference were bad news for television advertising. According to a survey of 133 national advertisers conducted by the Association of National Advertisers and Forrester Research, 78 percent of them believe that television advertising is less effective than it was two years ago.
 The main culprit, said Josh Bernoff, the vice president for devices, media and marketing at Forrester Research, is the digital video recorder. Though the device is currently in fewer than 10 percent of American households, that number is expected to hit ''an indelible growth spurt,'' Mr. Bernoff said. He estimated that 43 million households were likely to have digital video recorders by 2010.
 ''The growth in the DVR household base is about to reach a very rapid pace, and this is driven, of course, by cable companies and satellite companies pushing them out and reducing the prices on those products,'' Mr. Bernoff said. 
 But one television executive defended the industry by promising that the broadcasters would no longer languidly count on advertising dollars.
 ''Historically, I think we basically just sold time to you, and you just bought time from us,'' said David Poltrack, the executive vice president and chief research officer for the CBS Corporation. ''And because of this new nonlinear world of television with all these new options, that's no longer the way we do business.''
 CBS is now selling cross-platform advertising, like Internet ad space packaged with television commercials, Mr. Poltrack said. While acknowledging that the Internet is competition for broadcasters, he also said that networks can take advantage of the growing popularity of streaming video. Through the college basketball tournament so far, CBS has been hosted to more than 14 million downloads of streamed video and more than 4 million unique visitors, he said.
 Converse presented a case study on how to integrate Internet and television with a viral campaign that solicited homemade videos from the public. After asking consumers to send in videos featuring Converse sneakers, Converse received more than 1,500 entries from 20 countries and posted them on conversegallery.com. The campaign also latched onto the trend of consumers being obsessed with user-generated content.
 ''We're trying to blow the barrier between brand and consumer,'' said Erick Soderstrom, the senior director of global brand development for Converse.
 Some speakers also offered relatively new ways for marketers to use the Internet with television, often by linking television commercials to coordinated Internet campaigns. 
 ''Last year, I think, more people were watching television than ever before, but I think from a media planning perspective, we all need to start concentrating on different things,'' said James Hedleston, the vice president for global marketing at American Express. 
 Mr. Hedleston showed his company's recent commercial effort, an unusually elaborate, stylized spot. The commercial starred and was directed by M. Night Shyamalan of ''The Sixth Sense'' and ''The Village.'' It was also widely downloaded on video-hosting Web sites like YouTube.com.
 ''There's a lot of big events you can take advantage of if they happen to fall when you're introducing your creative,'' Mr. Hedleston said. (Of course, this commercial required the participation of four agencies, an Oscar-night debut, and an M. Night Shyamalan-caliber budget.)
 But one speaker took time to defend the industry from what some advertisers see as overregulation by Congress and the Federal Communications Commission. The advertising industry has fallen under increased scrutiny by Congress, particularly for pharmaceutical and food advertising and product placement on television. 
 The threat of a la carte cable programming, which would allow consumers to pay for only the individual channels they order, is also a concern for advertisers because it could decrease advertising revenue. 
 ''Advertising is under attack in several areas,'' said Daniel Jaffe, the executive vice president for government relations for the advertisers association. ''We need to start telling people how valuable it is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (96%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (96%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (94%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); CD & DVD DRIVES (89%); STREAMING MEDIA (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); INSTANT MESSAGING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CASE STUDIES (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%) Television; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones ; Recording Equipment; Television

COMPANY: CBS CORP (81%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%) Assn of National Advertisers; Forrester Research

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (81%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Josh Bernoff; Julie Bosman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



503 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: State Department Is Criticized For Purchasing Chinese PC's 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; David Barboza contributed reporting from Shanghai for this article.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 23 

 BODY:
A State Department purchase of more than 15,000 computers built by the Lenovo Group of China is starting to draw criticism in the latest sign of American unease about the role of foreign companies in the American economy.
 The computers, worth more than $13 million, are coming from factories in Raleigh, N.C., and Monterrey, Mexico, that were part of the personal computer division that Lenovo purchased from I.B.M. last May. Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, said at the department's daily media briefing on Wednesday that the computers were intended for unclassified systems and would be serviced by the former I.B.M. division.
The computer contracts are drawing heat from a diverse group of liberal and conservative critics who have been warning about China's growing power for years. These critics have been encouraged by the Congressional scrutiny given to a plan by a company controlled by the royal family of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates to acquire operations at six American ports; the company has since agreed to give up those operations. 
 The critics warn that the deal could help China spy on American embassies and American intelligence-gathering activities, using hardware and software planted in the computers.
 ''The opportunities for intelligence gains by the Chinese are phenomenal,'' said Michael R. Wessel, a member of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which was created by Congress to monitor and report on the bilateral relationship. Larry M. Wortzel, the commission's chairman, said in an interview two weeks ago that while he would not be concerned if Airbus moved an aircraft production line to China, he would be worried if Lenovo ever started to sell computers to American government agencies involved in foreign affairs. Responding on Thursday to the Lenovo deal, he predicted that, ''Members of Congress, I think, will react very strongly when they see a deal like this come through.''
 Lenovo is a publicly traded company controlled by Legend Holdings, which was started with Chinese government backing in 1984; the government-controlled Chinese Academy of Sciences now holds 65 percent of Legend, while Legend's employees own the rest. Lenovo declined on Thursday to comment on the computer sales to the State Department.
 Word of the computer deal began to trickle out on Monday when a Lenovo distributor, CDW Government, a wholly owned subsidiary of the CDW Corporation, sent a press release to members of the business news media announcing its contracts to help the State Department modernize its information technology systems. CDW, based in Vernon Hills, Ill., said that it had been carrying out an $11.65 million contract to supply the State Department with more than 15,000 Lenovo ThinkCentre M51 desktop computers, plus a $1.35 million contract to provide nearly 1,000 Lenovo ThinkCentre M51 minitower computers.
 Max R. Peterson II, the vice president of federal sales at CDW Government, said in a telephone interview that the State Department had approved a list of specific computer models, including the Lenovo models, and had asked computer systems integrators to bid for contracts to meet the department's needs and make their own choices among approved models. CDW won the contracts and chose to begin delivering 500 Lenovo computers a week starting in November, he said.
 Chinese ownership of Lenovo was never discussed with the State Department through the contract process and the computer deliveries, Mr. Peterson said. 
 He noted that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States had approved the Lenovo acquisition of the I.B.M. division. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%) 

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (94%); CDW LLC (84%); AIRBUS SAS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



504 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Editor At Economist Is Appointed Editor in Chief

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The Economist, the urbane British weekly magazine that has been expanding its foothold in America, appointed its United States editor as its editor in chief yesterday.
 The editor, John Micklethwait, 43, who is British, was the magazine's New York bureau chief and set up its office in Los Angeles. He has been the United States editor since 1999 and runs that desk from London. 
The selection of Mr. Micklethwait is an indication of where The Economist expects to find its growth. The magazine, founded in London in 1843 by a Scottish hat maker to promote free trade, has a circulation of more than one million, with more than half (569,000) in North America. It now sells more than three times the copies in the United States that it does in Britain.
 ''Covering America well is an absolute priority for the magazine,'' Mr. Micklethwait said in a telephone interview from London after his selection, though he added that the magazine was also trying to grow in the rest of the world.
 The Economist has bureaus in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington and has hired what Mr. Micklethwait called a ''super stringer'' in Austin, Tex. Mr. Micklethwait said he was also contemplating opening more bureaus across the country.
 ''Our readership is somewhat bicoastal but we see a huge opportunity in the heartland, where just as many people's lives are touched by globalization,'' he said.
 Mr. Micklethwait succeeds Bill Emmott, who announced in February that he was stepping down after 13 years. During that time, the magazine doubled its circulation, with much of the increase in the United States.
 Mr. Micklethwait attributed much of the growth in the United States to an increased interest in world affairs after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. He said he was proud of the magazine's coverage of the war in Iraq, ''but Sept. 11 probably made a bigger difference and made Americans more interested in the rest of the world.''
 In 2005, The Economist attracted far fewer advertising dollars in North America than home-grown financial publications like Forbes, BusinessWeek and Fortune -- $72 million for The Economist in 2005 compared with $332 million for BusinessWeek, for example. But unlike those magazines, where ad dollars declined, The Economist's rose 11 percent.
 Moreover, the circulation of the financial magazines was essentially flat from 2004 to 2005, but The Economist's posted an increase of more than 12 percent in America. Mr. Micklethwait said he saw his competition as both the big newsweeklies like Time, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report, as well as smaller publications like The New Republic and The Weekly Standard.
 Mr. Micklethwait, who becomes the magazine's 16th editor, was selected over Ed Carr, the business affairs editor and former news editor of The Financial Times.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Micklethwait said covering the United States was a priority. (Photo by The Economist, via PRNewsFoto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); TERRORISM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Economist (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: John Micklethwait; Bill Emmott; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (72%); IRAQ (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



505 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slide as Price of Oil Feeds Fears of Higher Rates 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after oil prices jumped and an increase in home sales added to concern that the Federal Reserve might keep lifting interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average had its biggest loss in about three weeks.
 Transportation shares tumbled amid crude oil's biggest advance this month and a lower profit forecast at YRC Worldwide, one of the largest American truckers.
 The Dow fell 47.14 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,270.29, retreating from the highest level since May 2001. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.37 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,301.67. The Nasdaq composite index slid 3.20 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,300.15. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 4.73 percent, up from 4.70 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 9/32, to 98 5/32.
 Remarks by the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and a report on producer prices have increased speculation this week that the Fed will keep raising rates. Yesterday's data reinforced that concern.
 The National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes in February rose 5.2 percent, to an annual rate of 6.91 million. New-home sales figures are due today.
 A separate report showed that first-time claims for unemployment benefits had dropped for the first time in four weeks, further suggesting economic strength.
 Fed policy makers meet next week and may increase rates for a 15th consecutive time. The Fed's benchmark lending rate stands at 4.5 percent.
 Crude oil for May delivery surged $2.14, or 3.5 percent, to $63.91 a barrel, its biggest gain this month. The Energy Department said Wednesday that inventories fell unexpectedly.
 YRC Worldwide, which changed its name this year from the Yellow Roadway Corporation, plunged $6.73, or 15 percent, to $38.56. The company expects first-quarter profit of 65 cents to 70 cents a share, down from its January forecast of $1 to $1.05, because of a drop in orders from retailers and price competition.
 Ryder System, the truck-leasing company, lost $1.35, to $44.56. Norfolk Southern, the railroad, slipped $1.84, to $52.89.
 Carnival fell $2.54, or 5.1 percent, to $47.49, for one of the biggest retreats in the S.& P. 500. Carnival, the cruise operator, said first-quarter profit dropped 19 percent and it cut its annual forecast because of higher fuel costs.
 KB Home rose $3.23, or 5 percent, to $67.82 for one of the biggest gains in the S.& P. 500. The company said fiscal first-quarter profit was $2.02 a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected $1.96 for the quarter, which ended in February. KB Home also said orders fell 12 percent as rising mortgage rates cooled demand.
 Jabil Circuit rose $4.51, or 12 percent, to $42.75. The company forecast profit this quarter of 43 cents a share on sales of as much as $2.6 billion.
 Yahoo and Level 3 Communications rallied after analyst upgrades. Yahoo gained $1.08, to $31.83. Level 3 surged 57 cents, to $4.01.
 Adobe Systems, the maker of graphic-design software, fell 29 cents, to $36.33. The company said sales in the fiscal second quarter would be $640 million to $670 million.
 The forecast from Adobe followed Microsoft's announcement this week that it would delay the new version of its Windows software program. Microsoft lost 30 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $26.85.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); INVENTORIES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); LEASING INDUSTRY (60%); CRUISES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: YRC WORLDWIDE INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); RYDER SYSTEM INC (52%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (52%); KB HOME CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: YRCW (NASDAQ) (84%); R (NYSE) (52%); NSC (NYSE) (52%); KBH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (84%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (84%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



506 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Defying Trend, an Upturn in Home Sales

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes unexpectedly surged in February after falling for five months in a row, the National Association of Realtors reported yesterday, reflecting a lift related to unseasonably warm weather and signaling that the housing market is healthier than some experts had suggested. 
 Sales climbed 5.2 percent last month, to an annual pace of 6.91 million homes, after falling 8.9 percent in the previous five months. The nationwide median price -- the point at which half the homes sold for more and half for less -- climbed 10.6 percent from a year earlier, to $209,000. 
The number of homes for sale, however, continued to climb, rising by 5.2 percent, to 3.03 million, which at the current pace of sales amounts to a 5.3-month supply of homes.
 Analysts, who had expected sales to fall to a pace of 6.5 million, cautioned that the increase could not yet be considered a turning point. Several other real estate gauges, including mortgage applications, interest rates and pending home sales, have indicated that sales are slowing.
 An unusually warm January appears to have played some role in the sharp increase in sales. Warmer weather allows more people to venture out, and sellers often use the opportunity to hold open houses. The association counts homes as sold at the closing, which typically happens one to two months after contracts are signed. 
 Sales jumped 19.2 percent in the Northeast, the biggest monthly increase ever recorded for the region, and 11.1 percent in the Midwest, the largest increase since 1992. Sales in the West climbed a more modest 5.1 percent, and they fell 2.5 percent in the South.
 Some analysts say the surge in February could mean home sales will be softer later this spring. Since August, sales of existing homes have fallen 4.2 percent. Mortgage applications for home purchases have fallen by about 16 percent in the last 12 months, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
 Home prices were higher than last year in all regions but were rising at a slower pace than they were last year, especially compared with the peak spring and summer months, when it was not unusual to see increases of 13 percent to 15 percent nationally. 
 Agents and analysts report that prices have dropped in some hot markets, and that appeared to be attracting some buyers who had been wary of local housing bubbles.
 ''Before, we had lots of people who were looking, but they said they weren't going to buy because they said prices were going to go down,'' said Chobee Hoy, an agent in Brookline, Mass., near Boston. ''And now we find ourselves in a very healthy market where people are not only looking at properties but making offers.''
 Others say they expect sales to remain strong in the coming months. ''It was quiet, but the last few weeks have been brisk,'' said Bob Moulton, a mortgage broker on Long Island.
 Sales of condominiums and co-ops, which fell more than single-family home sales in the last few months, were up 8.8 percent in February, while sales of single-family homes were up 4.7 percent.
 Separately, the Labor Department reported that claims for unemployment insurance fell by 11,000, to 302,000, for the week that ended March 18. The number of outstanding claims for the week that ended on March 11, however, rose by 38,000, to 2.5 million. That was down by 7.5 percent from the comparable week a year earlier.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Mitchell, a real estate agent, with Teri Lyle, a prospective homebuyer in San Diego. Home sales in the West rose 5.1 percent last month, while sales in the Northeast were up 19.2 percent, a record increase. (Photo by Jack Smith/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average since October, 2005.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); TRENDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (59%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



507 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Young Americans, Doing Good

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof encourages students to spend a year between high school and college traveling abroad to prepare themselves ''to survive globalization.'' 
While exploring and working in an unfamiliar community can certainly be educational and helpful, students, especially those who might not be able to afford or do not otherwise have the opportunity, need not necessarily go overseas to do so. 
 As the recent devastation of Hurricane Katrina demonstrates, there are numerous communities here in the rural and urban parts of the United States where one can gain an education in foreign languages, religions and cultures while working on such serious problems as poverty, homelessness, illiteracy, unemployment and discrimination. 
 Too often, we assume that cultural enrichment and valuable public service occur only abroad. Gaining worldliness while making a significant contribution to addressing the social ills of globalization can also start at home. 

Zachary D. Kaufman
Stanford, Calif., March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); HURRICANES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (54%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (53%); RELIGION (53%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel

PERSON: Zachary D Kaufman; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



508 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: We Will Bury You, In Debt

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WE'LL say this about the early days of the cold war: They taught us to brace for the worst.
 In school, the teachers had us duck under desks, part of the drill in case of a nuclear attack. Hiding under the inkwell was supposed to keep us from being vaporized.
Even better were the dog tags they gave us in the second grade, stamped with our names and religion. If we didn't get under the desk fast enough, at least we would be buried in the proper cemetery. Unless, of course, we were vaporized. 
 Wish we had also been told then about the crackers.
 You may have read this week about the crackers. City workers discovered a vault in the foundations of the Brooklyn Bridge. There, to their surprise, they found provisions that civil defense types had stockpiled some 50 years ago, items like medical supplies, water drums and drugs. And high-calorie crackers. Lots of crackers. Several hundred thousand of them.
 Who knew? It would have been reassuring to know back then that, were we but able to scramble under the desk in time, a feast of crackers awaited us.
 It's easy to laugh now about old fears. But have we really not just replaced them with new ones? Repeatedly we are warned how unprepared we are for the latest horror:
 Our ports are sitting ducks for terrorists. Chemical plants, too. Let's not even talk about the Indian Point nuclear plant. In case you weren't quaking enough, yesterday's alarm was that the city's hurricane evacuation plans are literally to die for.
 The nonstop message is, Be afraid, be very afraid. Not much has changed since the cold war.
 It was therefore almost pleasant to learn this week that we are not entirely unprepared for coming ordeals. Mind you, we are not talking here about problems on the scale of terrorism or nuclear annihilation. Still, they are serious matters.
 Like the national debt.
 Douglas Durst, the New York real estate developer, is already planning for when the debt reaches $10 trillion. It is now more than $8.3 trillion. At the bullet-train pace it has grown in the Bush years, it could hit $10 trillion about when Mr. Bush leaves the White House in 2009. (It was $5.7 trillion when he took office.)
 Many people have trouble wrapping their brains around the concept of a trillion dollars, which is a 1 followed by 12 zeros. To put it in terms that New Yorkers can readily grasp, it is even more money than Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg spent on his re-election campaign.
 For years, the Durst Organization has done its bit to be, if you will, New York's debt conscience. In 1989, Mr. Durst's father, Seymour B. Durst, created the National Debt Clock. His son continues the tradition.
 The clock is an electronic billboard with numbers spinning faster than a roulette wheel. It is perched these days on the side of a Durst building at 1133 Avenue of the Americas, near 44th Street.
 HERE'S the problem. The clock does not have room for the extra digit that will be needed once the debt hits double T: ten trillion. When it was installed at its present location in 2004, ''we thought we had 10 years,'' Mr. Durst said. ''Obviously, we were mistaken.'' So he is already forced to think about a replacement. Come Double T Day, he promised, a new clock will be ready, perhaps emphasizing each family's share of the debt, now $89,518.
 That was encouraging, sort of. So was word this week that if oil prices soar out of sight -- say, to an entirely feasible $100 a barrel -- no American city is in better shape than New York to withstand the economic shock. So says SustainLane.com, an online service that develops strategies for what is known as ''sustainable living.''
 Grit your teeth all you want on that packed No. 6 train. But our mass-transit system, plus our willingness to walk, will ease the sting the next time oil prices zoom because the Middle East goes haywire or a hurricane devastates the Gulf of Mexico. New York ''is really the only city in the United States where people ride rather than drive to work and to get to school and other activities,'' said Warren Karlenzig, SustainLane's chief strategy officer.
 It was comforting to hear. Granted, rising debts and oil prices are hardly comparable to nuclear nightmares. But wouldn't you rather dwell on them than on sitting below ground somewhere like a mole, munching on stale crackers for 50 years?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (85%); POWER PLANTS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); HURRICANES (50%) United States Economy; National Debt (US); Signs

ORGANIZATION: Durst Organization

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Clyde Haberman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



509 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: For the King of the Road in New Jersey, a Possible Chance to Buy a Share of the Turnpike

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Richard G. Jones, in Cherry Hill, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 23 

 BODY:
For years, people who did their insurance business with Prudential, one of New Jersey's signature companies, were told that they owned ''a piece of the rock.'' Now, people may have an opportunity to own a piece of other prominent state symbols: the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway. 
 Under a bill introduced this week by State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Democrat from Union County, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority would set up a new corporation and sell a 49 percent stake of the turnpike and the parkway to investors. And while the bill would limit any toll increases to the rate of inflation, Mr. Lesniak said the sale would raise $6 billion and help pay down the state's pension liabilities.
In recent years, a few governments have sold or leased their toll roads. Chicago sold the Skyway last year for $1.8 billion. But what Mr. Lesniak is proposing is a partial privatization, and would be tantamount to selling preferred stock. 
 Outside the United States, that arrangement is not unusual, according to fiscal experts. For instance, France in 2004 began selling shares in its Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhone, then Europe's third-biggest toll-road operator.
 It was not lost upon the political establishment in Trenton that Mr. Lesniak introduced his bill on Tuesday, the same day that Gov. Jon S. Corzine proposed in his inaugural budget to raise the sales tax a penny and cut overall spending by $2 billion. So immediately, speculation followed as to whether the bill represented an alternative to the proposed sales tax increase, or anything else in Mr. Corzine's $30.9 billion budget.
 When asked about the bill, Mr. Corzine seemed lukewarm at best, saying that ''if it's not used for paying down debt or investing in capital functions, I probably have difficulty'' with it.
 That reasoning was echoed by Senator Leonard Lance, a Hunterdon County Republican and the minority leader. He said that the proposal seemed reminiscent of the kind of borrowing to cover operating expenses that was ruled unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court in 2004.
 But Mr. Lesniak found support from several legislators, with the most prominent voice being that of Richard J. Codey, the Senate president and former acting governor.
 According to a task force that Mr. Codey convened last year as governor, the pension and health benefits system is costing the state $2.4 billion this year, with most of it going for health benefits, out of a $28 billion state budget. In 2010, that figure is projected to climb to $6.4 billion, or 20 percent of the budget.
 So to ensure full funding of benefits in future years, the report recommended that the state sell a public asset to generate $12.1 billion. The only assets approaching that in value are the two toll roads, the 148-mile-long turnpike and the 173-mile-long parkway, run by the authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); SALES TAX (69%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); TAX INCREASES (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); INFLATION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Roads and Traffic; Law and Legislation; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Roads and Traffic; Privatization; Tolls; Government Employees

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (57%); AUTOROUTES PARIS-RHIN-RHONE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Turnpike Authority

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (55%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%); LEONARD LANCE (58%) David W Chen; Richard G Jones; Raymond (Sen) Lesniak

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (70%) New Jersey Turnpike; Garden State Parkway; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



510 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Feud Grows Between Weld And D'Amato

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For the last few months, William F. Weld's bid to become governor of New York has had a sharp thorn in its side: the outspoken opposition of the onetime kingmaker of state Republican politics, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who has said that Mr. Weld is ''without any real experience'' in New York.
 Yesterday, Mr. Weld struck back in force, telling how their feud dated at least to a 1996 encounter in which Mr. D'Amato gave him $750,000 in donations for his Senate campaign that year against John Kerry of Massachusetts. The donations, according to Mr. Weld, came with an expletive-laced warning: that Mr. Weld distance himself from Robert S. Mueller III, who as a Justice Department official oversaw a federal fraud investigation of Mr. D'Amato's brother, Armand, in the early 1990's.
 ''If I ever see that expletive Mueller at an expletive fund-raiser, I'm going to get every expletive dollar of this back out of your hide,'' Mr. Weld, a former Massachusetts governor, quoted Mr. D'Amato as saying. Mr. Mueller, a friend of Mr. Weld's, has been the director of the F.B.I. since 2001. 
 Mr. D'Amato yesterday vigorously denied that the encounter had taken place and said he had not even met Mr. Weld until recently, at a Feb. 23 fund-raiser for Representative Vito J. Fossella. But newspaper articles indicate that Mr. D'Amato introduced Mr. Weld at a 1996 Republican fund-raiser in Washington.
 The clash exposed in the most bare-knuckled form the searing divisions that have afflicted state Republicans as they seek to find credible candidates to run for governor and to challenge Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in November.
 Mr. D'Amato, who in 1994 helped shepherd a little-known George E. Pataki to the governor's mansion, has been openly praising the presumed Democratic front-runner for governor, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, and yesterday he attacked Mr. Weld's stewardship of Decker College, a financially troubled Kentucky school that is the subject of a federal investigation.
 ''If he couldn't run Decker College -- they had a multimillion-dollar criminal enterprise of swindling these poor kids trying to get an education -- and if he didn't know that was taking place -- I'm not suggesting he was part of the cabal -- then why didn't he?'' Mr. D'Amato said. ''Does that recommend him to be governor?''A federal investigation about student loan fraud at Decker College, a bankrupt trade school, is continuing.
 Mr. D'Amato added, ''I don't intend to endorse Eliot Spitzer, but I will say, if asked, he's done a magnificent job as attorney general, better than any I have ever seen,'' he said. 
 The matter brought to the forefront once again an episode that haunted the Senate career of Mr. D'Amato, who served from 1981 to 1999: the investigation that resulted in the May 1993 mail fraud conviction of Armand P. D'Amato, the senator's brother, in connection with $120,500 he received from a military contractor to lobby the senator. The conviction was thrown out by an appellate court the following year.
 During a breakfast yesterday organized by Crain's New York Business, Mr. Weld, who from 1986 to 1988 was an assistant attorney general in the Justice Department, said that in Washington in 1996, he visited Mr. D'Amato, who was the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which raises money for Republican Senate candidates. ''Through clenched teeth, he handed me a check for $750,000,'' Mr. Weld said of Mr. D'Amato.
 Mr. Weld's challenge to Mr. Kerry was one of the most hotly contested Senate races that year. Mr. Weld said yesterday that after Mr. D'Amato handed him the check with the warning about Mr. Mueller (he did not specify which expletives Mr. D'Amato used), he began the following exchange: 
 ''Well, why is that, Senator?''
 ''He investigated my brother, Armand, and prosecuted him.''
 ''Well, but when was that, Senator? I'm not familiar with that.''
 ''Well, it was whatever year it was -- 1990-something.''
 ''Well, actually, I left the Justice Department in March of 1988 and, sir -- '' 
 ''It doesn't matter. He's your guy.''
 Denying any impropriety in taking the donation, Mr. Weld said he did not interpret it to mean that he would in any way distance himself from Mr. Mueller, to whom he has been close since at least 1982, when Mr. Weld, then the United States attorney in Boston, recruited Mr. Mueller to work for him. Mr. Weld said he came forward with the account yesterday because he remembered it when he was asked about it by a television reporter.
 In response to Mr. Weld's account, Mr. D'Amato yesterday called Mr. Weld ''a stranger to the truth'' and adamantly denied that such an encounter ever occurred. ''The conversation never took place,'' Mr. D'Amato said in a telephone interview. ''This is an entire fictional, preposterous story. Not only did I never give Bill Weld a check in any amount, the N.R.S.C. is prohibited from writing a check for more than $17,500 to any individual candidate.''
 Mr. D'Amato said he did remember taking a phone call in 1996 from Mr. Weld, seeking the campaign committee's support. Craig Engle, who was the committee's general counsel from 1995 to 2000, said yesterday that he, too, could recall only a phone call and not a meeting. He said that under varying state rules, the committee was permitted to pay a campaign's bills and that over time the amounts in the Massachusetts race might have added up to $750,000.
 Mr. D'Amato earlier urged Mr. Mueller to recuse himself from the Decker College investigation because of his ties to Mr. Weld, and Mr. Mueller agreed to do so on Jan. 24, "to avoid even the appearance of a conflict" of interest, according to a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
 Mr. D'Amato suggested that his dislike for Mr. Weld preceded the investigation of his brother and dated from 1988, when Mr. Weld and five other officials resigned to distance themselves from Attorney General Edwin Meese III, who was under investigation. ''Weld is a duplicitous guy who stabbed Ed Meese in the back,'' Mr. D'Amato said.
 Mr. Weld said yesterday that the investigations had been ''taking their toll on the department.'' Mr. Meese did not respond to messages left at his office in Washington and his home in McLean, Va.
 The feud is the latest embarrassment for a state party that has already seen the implosion of Jeanine F. Pirro's bid to topple Senator Clinton and open Republican challenges to the leadership of Governor Pataki, who is not running for a fourth term. 
 The dispute with Mr. D'Amato overshadowed Mr. Weld's speech, in which he unfavorably compared the leading Democratic candidate for governor, Mr. Spitzer, to Michael S. Dukakis, Mr. Weld's predecessor in Massachusetts. ''Removing the burdens of taxation and removing the cost of doing business empowers our economy and leads to good-paying jobs,'' he said, adding that Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Dukakis put their ''faith in government.''
 Mr. Spitzer's campaign spokeswoman, Christine L. Anderson, replied, ''When the governor of Massachusetts finally gets around to doing his homework, he'll see that the problems we face require real solutions rather than stale political rhetoric.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Roots of a Feud''The war of words between William F. Weld and Alfonse M. D'Amato has its origins more than 15 years ago, when Mr. D'Amato's brother was investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice, where Mr. Weld held a senior post.Late 1980'sWilliam F. Weld is head of the criminal division of the U.S. Department of Justice.1990Mr. Weld is elected governor of Massachusetts.1996Mr. Weld runs, unsuccessfully, for Senate against John Kerry
says contributions raised by Mr. D'Amato were delivered with negative remarks about a former D.O.J. colleague.1997Mr. Weld resigns as governor
 later moves to New York.Late 1980'sInfluence-peddling investigation into Armand P. D'Amato's law firm begins.1992, 1993Mr. D'Amato is charged with mail fraud in 1992, and convicted on seven counts and sentenced to five months in jail in 1993.1994Mr. D'Amato's conviction is overturned on appeal for lack of evidence.Late 1980'sAlfonse M. D'Amato is an influential senator from New York.1989, 1990, 1991The Senate Ethics Committee investigates the senator's involvement in his brother's alleged influence peddling, but takes no disciplinary action.1995Mr. D'Amato, in a memoir, ''Power, Pasta and Politics,'' writes of the case: ''It was a political prosecution undertaken solely to hurt me and my family.''1996Mr. D'Amato raises money as chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee.(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%) Frauds and Swindling; Finances; Elections; Senate (US) ; Primaries; Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CRIMINAL DIVISION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VITO FOSSELLA (58%) Sewell Chan; Sam Roberts; William F Weld; Alfonse M D'Amato; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Armand P D'Amato; Robert S III Mueller; John M Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



511 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Bush Facing Serious Obstacles as He Pushes for Changes in Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
In the days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, immigration policy was going to be President Bush's signature issue. It was central to his thinking as the former governor of a border state, key to his relationship with President Vicente Fox of Mexico and essential in attracting new Hispanic voters to the Republican Party.
 Five years later, Mr. Bush has at last realized some momentum on immigration policy, but it is probably not the activity he once anticipated. 
He has lost control of his own party on the issue, as many Republicans object to his call for a temporary guest-worker program, insisting instead that the focus be on shutting down the flow of illegal immigrants from Mexico. It is not clear how much help he will get from Democrats in an election year. 
 The issue will come to the floor of the Senate next week, and the debate is shaping up as a free-for-all that will touch on economics, race and national identity.
 At the end of next week, Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet with Mr. Fox in Cancun, Mexico. Immigration is likely to be a source of tension in their talks. 
 In short, Mr. Bush is facing another test of his remaining powers as president.
 On Thursday, he called for calm in a White House meeting with groups pressing for changes in American immigration laws. 
 ''I urge members of Congress and I urge people who like to comment on this issue to make sure the rhetoric is in accord with our traditions,'' the president said.
 He added, in a warning to members of Congress, that ''the debate must be done in a way that doesn't pit one group of people against another.''
 The discussion has intensified as Mr. Bush finds himself caught between two of his most important constituencies: business owners and managers on the one hand, conservatives on the other. 
 Philosophically, the president, whose own sensibility on the issue was shaped by his experience as governor of Texas, says he is committed to a program that meets the needs of business: the creation of a pool of legal foreign workers for industries that have come to rely on low-wage labor.
 Mr. Bush also brings to the debate a stated belief that the country benefits from the immigration of hardworking people and their dreams of becoming Americans. He often talks about the United States as a land of immigrants, and on Monday in Cleveland he said that ''my only advice for the Congress and for people in the debate is, understand what made America.''
 But politically, Mr. Bush must satisfy his most conservative supporters. Many of them view illegal immigration as a strain on schools, the health care system and the economy, and some have warned that in their opinion the nation's cultural identity could be washed away by a flood of low-income Spanish-speaking workers.
 For now, Mr. Bush is trying to navigate the storm with a proposal that tries to satisfy both groups: a toughened border enforcement plan coupled with a temporary guest-worker program that would allow some of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States to register for legal status and remain here for as long as six years.
 ''Our government must enforce our borders; we've got plans in place to do so,'' Mr. Bush said on Thursday. ''But part of enforcing our borders is to have a guest-worker program that encourages people to register their presence so that we know who they are, and says to them, if you're doing a job an American won't do, you're welcome here for a period of time to do that job.''
 Pollsters say the issue is still fluid among voters, although they expect public opinion to solidify during the coming debate in Congress and as Mr. Bush promotes his plan. 
 ''He's got a very strong position with the bully pulpit,'' said David Winston, a Republican pollster, ''but the dynamic of the issue at this point is that there is consensus around border security, but people have not come to a similar consensus about what to do with the 11 million in the country.''
 Two years ago, a New York Times/CBS News poll found that two-thirds of those surveyed said immigrants who had entered the country illegally should not be allowed to stay and work in the United States for three years, the initial period of stay in Mr. Bush's proposed guest-worker program. There was also little enthusiasm for any increase in immigration, with a plurality saying immigration should be decreased.
 The poll was conducted shortly after Mr. Bush made his first major speech on his immigration plan.
 ''Many of you here today are Americans by choice, and you have followed in the paths of millions,'' Mr. Bush told a cheering, chanting crowd packed with Hispanic leaders in the East Room of the White House in January 2004. Every generation of immigrants, he added, ''has reaffirmed the wisdom of remaining open to the talents and dreams of the world.'' 
 But critics said that Mr. Bush's guest-worker program did not go far enough, and that there was deportation, not a green card, at the end of the process. At the same time, his words angered many conservative Republicans, who said the plan amounted to amnesty.
 Mr. Bush dropped his immigration proposals as too risky for his 2004 re-election campaign, but took them up again in 2005. By then, in an effort to calm conservatives, he had switched his tactics, emphasizing the national-security part of the plan. 
 ''We're going to get control of our borders,'' he vowed in the East Room of the White House in October 2005 as he signed a $32 billion domestic security bill that had big increases for the Border Patrol.
 This year, Mr. Bush has continued to push the issue and is closely watching what happens on Capitol Hill.
 The House has passed an immigration bill that includes border security, not a guest-worker program. The action is now in the Senate, where it will resume next week. 
 There are a rash of competing immigration proposals on both sides, including one from Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and another from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. The majority leader, Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, has threatened to offer his own border-security-only bill if the Senate cannot come up with legislation on its own.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, talking to reporters yesterday at the White House, favors a guest-worker program that is being challenged by his own party. (Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Workers; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (73%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



512 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Bush Critic

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (columns, March 10 and March 20) suggests that my conservative criticism of President Bush's policies is a new ''epiphany'' and ''bogus.'' 
I endorsed George W. Bush in 2000, and I backed the Afghanistan and Iraq wars (and still do). But my criticism of President Bush's spending binge began early.
 In December 2001, I wrote in The New Republic: ''If Clinton was an Eisenhower Republican, Bush looks increasingly like a Nixon liberal in domestic economic policy. The Nixonian gambit of buying public support for the war by reckless, pro-corporate Keynesianism at home is a sobering precedent.'' 
 I haven't let up since.
 As for the war, my criticisms of troop levels began in the first week of the invasion and have continued. Few journalists have written as passionately as I have against the legalization of torture. 
 My anger at President Bush's betrayal of federalism, limited government and competent warfare has been expressed repeatedly on my blog. I even felt forced to endorse John Kerry in 2004. And yet I am the conservative Mr. Krugman now picks on as a Johnny-come-lately?
 Mr. Krugman also asserted that he expected no ''expressions of remorse'' from me. In Time magazine, in an article published before Mr. Krugman's column, I expressed my own ''shame and sorrow'' for misjudging in advance the competence of this administration in wartime.

Andrew Sullivan
Washington, March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Andrew Sullivan; Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



513 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

 BODY:

Chinese Computer Maker Is Open To Inquiry on Sale to State Department
The Lenovo Group of China said yesterday that it would welcome a United States investigation to quell concerns about any spy threat from a State Department order for more than 15,000 of its computers. ''We have nothing to hide,'' said Jeffrey Carlisle, vice president for government relations at Lenovo, which bought I.B.M.'s personal computer division last May. But he said no investigation was warranted and expressed concern about the Chinese company being put at a competitive disadvantage in the market for government contracts. The espionage concerns were raised by Michael R. Wessel, a member of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, who said the opportunity for gathering intelligence through hardware and software was ''enormous'' and needed to be investigated. (REUTERS) 


Delphi Proposes New Contract to Auto Workers Union
The Delphi Corporation, the auto parts supplier, made a new contract offer to the United Automobile Workers union as the company tries to cut wages and jobs while avoiding a strike. The U.A.W. notified local unions of the offer yesterday, said George Anthony, bargaining chairman of U.A.W. Local 292 in Kokomo, Ind. He did not disclose any details. Delphi previously proposed cutting wages to $12.50 an hour from $27 and reducing its union work force to about 10,000 employees from 33,000. The company plans to ask a bankruptcy judge to cancel contracts if the union does not agree to concessions. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Shares of Tim Hortons Rise in First Day of Trading
Shares of the Canadian coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons rose 22 percent yesterday in their first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares rose $5.01, to close at $28.17, up from its initial public offering price of $23.16 set Thursday. The company is being spun off by Wendy's International, based in Dublin, Ohio. Tim Hortons sold 29 million shares, netting $671.6 million for a 15 percent stake in the company. Wendy's, which bought Tim Hortons in 1995 in a deal worth $620 million, will continue to own about 160 million shares, according to a filing this month with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Wendy's has said it plans to spin off its remaining stake to its shareholders by the end of the year. (AP)

Navy Extends Computer Contract With Electronic Data
The Electronic Data Systems Corporation, the computer services company, won a $3 billion three-year extension to its contract with the Navy. The extension is through September 2010, Electronic Data and the Navy said yesterday. The original contract was valued at $6.9 billion. The contract called for Electronic Data to build a computer network, called the Navy Marine Corps Intranet, that links 400,000 desktop computers. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Judge Throws Out Damage Award in Case Against Tyco
A judge threw out a $420 million damage award against the Nellcor unit of Tyco International in an antitrust lawsuit brought by the Masimo Corporation. Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer of United States District Court in Los Angeles, said in a ruling entered Thursday that the damages a Los Angeles jury awarded Masimo were not ''sustainable by the proof.'' Judge Pfaelzer upheld the liability verdict on some of Masimo's accusations. In March of last year, the jury found Tyco liable for engaging in anticompetitive behavior in the market for machines that measure oxygen levels in blood. The $140 million in damages the jury awarded to Masimo was tripled to $420 million under antitrust law. Masimo had argued that Nellcor used contracts with hospital group- purchasing organizations, manufacturers and other agreements to limit its sales. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Sovereign Bancorp Sets Annual Meeting Date
Sovereign Bancorp of Philadelphia agreed to hold its 2006 annual meeting by Sept. 30 as part of a settlement to end a proxy battle with its largest shareholder, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday. Sovereign announced the settlement with Relational Investors on Wednesday. Sovereign delayed its 2006 meeting after the dispute with Relational threatened to interrupt its agreement to sell a 19.8 percent stake to Banco Santander Central Hispano of Spain. (REUTERS)

Campbell Soup Might Sell British and Irish Units
The Campbell Soup Company said yesterday that it might sell its British and Irish businesses because they have not met growth expectations. The units make Homepride sauces and Erin and Batchelors brand soups and have annual sales of $490 million, Campbell said. The brands accounted for almost 7 percent of Campbell's revenue in the last fiscal year. Campbell's British and Irish businesses are ''highly fragmented,'' which have hurt results, the chief executive, Douglas R. Conant, said in a statement. Campbell is currently pursuing more profitable business growth in North America and other international markets, Mr. Conant said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Guidant Acquisitions Face Clearance Delay in Europe
European regulators may take until April 18 to finish reviewing Boston Scientific's proposed $27 billion acquisition of the Guidant Corporation and Abbott Laboratories' $4.1 billion purchase of Guidant's heart stent business. Boston Scientific originally expected to complete the transaction March 31. The amount Boston Scientific must pay Guidant, based in Indianapolis, increases by $4.5 million for each day the transaction remains open beyond March 31. An April 18 closing would cost Boston Scientific $81 million. A Boston Scientific spokesman, Paul Donovan, said the company still hoped to close the deal in the first week of April. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Venezuela Says BP Owes $61 Million in Back Taxes
Venezuela's tax authorities said yesterday that BP, Europe's largest oil company, owed 132 billion bolivars ($61 million) in back income taxes. BP owes the taxes from the 2001-2004 period and faces fines of up to 200 percent of the unpaid tax if it fails to pay, the country's National Tax Service said. BP produces oil in a venture with Exxon Mobil and the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Campbell Soup Daily closes''Feb.: $30 a shareMarch: $32.58

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAST FOOD (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (75%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); SECURITIES LAW (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); NAVIES (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIM HORTONS INC (82%); LENOVO GROUP LTD (74%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (61%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (61%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (61%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: THI (TSX) (82%); THI (NYSE) (82%); 0992 (HKSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (74%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (61%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (61%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (61%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (61%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



514 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Oregon Looks at Taxing Miles Driven in Lieu of Gas

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: CORVALLIS, Ore. 

 BODY:
Two professors were cruising around the campus of Oregon State University here in a Ford Explorer. A wireless black box, mounted on the dashboard, tracked the miles in a test of a per-mile fee system that state officials said might one day replace the state's 24-cents-per-gallon gas tax.
 The professors drove to the edge of campus, a laboratory with an old gas pump. The mock service station was equipped with computers that read the black box and calculated how many miles the professors had clocked, broken into categories -- in-state, out of state and during rush hours -- and levied a tax based on the miles driven rather than gallons burned.
The Oregon experiment is among several efforts across the country designed to increase state revenue for road maintenance and construction without raising gasoline taxes. Oregon's examination of a ''vehicle miles traveled tax'' comes at time when many states are facing depleted transportation budgets, chiefly because of inflation. 
 Projections indicate that the financial situation will worsen in the years ahead as fewer gas tax dollars are collected, especially in states that have pushed use of fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Oregon is one of 10 states to have adopted a ''clean cars program,'' a set of incentives designed to reduce pollution related to global warming, according to the National Association of State Public Interest Research Groups. Now, energy experts say, it is among the most aggressive in testing a way to offset the financial effects of those environmentally friendly policies.
 Estimates show that by 2025 at the latest, state and federal fuel efficiency measures to reduce oil consumption and emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide will cut per-mile gas costs by 15 percent to 25 percent, according to the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies. Less conservative projections suggest that those cost reductions could happen by 2015 or earlier, depending on the pace of sales of fuel-efficient cars. 
 Reduced consumption would undoubtedly result in a huge hit to the tax dollars collected by many states, which rely on gas taxes to pay for most highway costs -- particularly states on the West and East Coasts. In Oregon, for example, 80 percent of the state highway money comes from its gas tax.
 States on the coasts have also been the most aggressive in pursuing ways to reduce gasoline consumption, and consumers have been more apt to buy the fuel-efficient vehicles, including hybrids. 
 In a signal of growing consternation about the declining tax revenue, $100 million was earmarked in President Bush's latest proposed budget to test alternatives to the gasoline tax on a broad scale, according to the federal Department of Transportation. Oregon officials hope to tap into some of those dollars to expand the experiment here. 
 A pilot program based on the experiment rolls out at the end of March and will last at least a year. Within the next six weeks or so, 280 paid volunteers will have their cars equipped with a global positioning system that will allow the vehicles to be tracked by computers installed at two Portland service stations, where the drivers will be required to fill up. 
 The Oregon program is being watched closely across the country, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, but it has also touched off some privacy concerns because the same system could be used to track a driver's location.
 Critics say the G.P.S. records collected by the service stations could be subpoenaed for any number of reasons: criminal cases involving terror suspects or civil cases like divorces, where, for example, a suspicious husband or wife may seek gas pump receipts to prove the whereabouts of a spouse. 
 ''I think what we've learned since Sept. 11 is that federal law enforcement seems to have an insatiable appetite for every bit of information that might be available,'' said David L. Sobel, general counsel at the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a civil liberties group in Washington. ''The existence of such a database, which would, for the first time in history, allow for the creation of detailed daily itineraries of every driver, raises obvious privacy concerns.''
 Proponents of the Oregon experiment acknowledge that the privacy issue must be addressed, but the State Legislature would ultimately address such policy questions if the gas tax were to be replaced by the G.P.S. fee system. Under the pilot program, data collected at the two participating service stations will be routinely erased, except for the most recent gas pump receipt, said James M. Whitty, manager of the Office of Innovative Partnerships and Alternative Funding at the State Department of Transportation.
 ''There is modest information accessibility here,'' Mr. Whitty said, adding that the system would track where a motorist filled up but would not go beyond whether the miles were driven inside or outside the state and whether they were driven during a morning or evening rush. 
 But Mr. Sobel said that if too much data was erased, customers would not be able to dispute charges by seeking their records, as can be done through credit card companies.
 The actual per-mile tax under the Oregon system would be determined by state lawmakers. But for the purposes of the pilot program, it is set at 1.2 cents a mile, with extra taxes imposed on miles driven during rush hour and none for miles driven in other states or when there is no G.P.S. signal. The total works out to be roughly on par with the current state gas tax, officials said. 
 ''It's a complete idea,'' said Mr. Whitty, who along with the professors here began work on the mileage tax in 2001, after the Legislature mandated an examination of alternatives to the traditional gas tax. The $2.9 million experiment was financed by both state and federal money. 
 It is too early to know whether such a system would discourage people from buying fuel-efficient vehicles. Mr. Whitty said he had heard of some drivers of fuel-efficient vehicles being upset. Others, though, were feeling guilt about having paid fewer taxes than most drivers, he said.
 Mr. Whitty also said that the privacy concerns might stem largely from fear of the unknown, even as global positioning systems are common now in vehicles because they can help drivers with directions, among other things.

 (In millions of dollars, assuming a gas tax rate of 24 cents per gallon)

NO INCREASE IN AVERAGE M.P.G. ($520 MILLION IN 2023)

INCREASE IN AVERAGE M.P.G. BY 2023: None
HYBRID MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 0%
GAIN IN DIESEL MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 0%

INCREASE IN FUEL ECONOMY OVER NEXT TWO DECADES

SMALL INCREASE
INCREASE IN AVERAGE M.P.G. BY 2023: +1.84 m.p.g.
HYBRID MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 3.1%
GAIN IN DIESEL MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 2.6%

MODERATE INCREASE
INCREASE IN AVERAGE M.P.G. BY 2023: +2.74 m.p.g.
HYBRID MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 10.2%
GAIN IN DIESEL MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 2.5%

LARGE INCREASE
INCREASE IN AVERAGE M.P.G. BY 2023: +4.07 m.p.g.
HYBRID MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 15%
GAIN IN DIESEL MARKET SHARE BY 2012: 5.6%

(Source by Oregon's Mileage Fee Concept and Road User Fee Pilot Program)

GRAPHIC: Photos: A global positioning system would help track miles driven in-state.
 Professors David Kim, left, and David Porter at their testing station, for a mileage tax system, on the edge of the Oregon State University campus in Corvallis. Oregon is exploring alternatives to its gasoline tax. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Chart: ''From the Pump to the State Treasury''If consumers flock to more fuel-efficient vehicles in the coming years, states could see less revenue from gasoline taxes as drivers fill up less at the pump. In Oregon, which is looking into a tax based on the number of miles driven, a state task force calculated how differing rates of using more efficient vehicles could affect revenues.Projected Oregon gas tax revenues

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); GASOLINE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMPTION (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); GAS STATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%) Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



515 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Follow the Chopsticks

 BODY:
China's relentless economic growth has created severe environmental problems and depleted its natural resources. Its energy demands have contributed to rising oil prices and the gases associated with global warming. So it is heartening when China, the world's most populous nation, takes steps to curb its appetites. We hope other countries (like the United States) may be similarly inspired. 
 Last week, Beijing announced plans to raise existing taxes and impose new ones on things like gas-guzzling cars and trucks, and disposable wooden chopsticks. The 5 percent chopsticks tax (a tax that also extends to floor planking) is intended to persuade people to buy reusable and plastic chopsticks in order to slow clear-cutting in Southeast Asia.
 Similarly, Chinese officials announced a big jump in taxes on vehicles with large engines, while reducing taxes on smaller vehicles. This follows an earlier directive imposing more stringent fuel-economy standards on all vehicles sold after July 1. Taken together, the moves reflect growing official concern about the rapid proliferation of private vehicles in China.
 This is good news for anyone worried about global warming because a big percentage of greenhouse gas emissions come from vehicles. Even with more efficient cars, however, China is expected to be an increasingly heavy producer of those gases because it relies so heavily on coal-fired power plants. The increased gases from these plants are likely to cancel out any savings from automobiles unless some way is found to reduce them. 
 Still, China is to be commended for using regulatory levers and economic incentives to encourage more efficient cars and trucks. Neither Congress nor the White House has done much of anything to improve the efficiency of this country's vehicles for the past 20 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (66%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (65%) Editorials; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Economic Conditions and Trends; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



516 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: On Campus, a Good Man Is Hard to Find

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
When a boy opens his acceptance letter from college, he now has to wonder what most impressed the admissions officers. Did they want him for his mind, or just his body?
 The admissions director at Kenyon College, Jennifer Delahunty Britz, published an Op-Ed article this week revealing an awkward truth about her job: affirmative action for boys. As the share of the boys in the applicant pool keeps shrinking -- it will soon be down to 40 percent nationally -- colleges are admitting less-qualified boys in order to keep the gender ratio balanced on campus.
This week's revelation did not please Kim Gandy, the president of the National Organization for Women, who told me that she might challenge the legality of affirmative action for male applicants. She and I are not normally ideological soulmates, but I have some sympathy with her on this policy. 
 It's not fair to the girls who are rejected despite having higher grades and test scores than the boys who get fat envelopes. It's not fair to the boys, either, if they're not ready to keep up with their classmates. Affirmative action just makes them prone to fail, and is probably one of the reasons that men are more likely than women to drop out of college. 
 After consulting with the federal Education Department, I can confidently report that this discrimination may violate the law -- or then again, it may not. Either way, I agree with Gandy that public colleges shouldn't practice it, because the government shouldn't favor one group over another.
 Gandy's also wary of allowing private schools like Kenyon to discriminate, and she's skeptical of their justification: that they need a fairly even male-female ratio on campus to attract the best applicants of either sex. I'm not sure if that's true, but I trust the colleges to know better than me or Gandy or federal lawyers. As long as a school is private, let it favor whomever it wants -- men, women, alumni children, Latinos, African-Americans -- without any interference from the Education Department.
 What the department should be doing is figuring out how to help boys reach college. The gender gap has been getting worse for two decades, but the Education Department still isn't focusing on it. Instead, it has an ''educational equity'' program aimed at helping girls and women. 
 The department is paying to encourage African and Slavic girls and women in Oregon to pursue careers in science. There's a grant to help women in West Virginia overcome ''traditional, outdated 19th-century attitudes'' by pursuing jobs in blue-collar trades. Another grant aims to motivate women at the Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn to study math.
 Those are all noble goals. I'd be glad to see the women in Brooklyn take up advanced calculus. But the chief ''equity'' issue at their college is the shortage of men, who make up barely a fifth of the student body. What happened to the boys who didn't make it? 
 Boys are, on average, as smart as girls, but they are much less fond of school. They consistently receive lower grades, have more discipline problems and are more likely to be held back for a year or placed in special education classes. The Harvard economist Brian Jacob attributes these problems to boys' lack of ''noncognitive skills,'' like their difficulties with paying attention in class, their disorganization and their reluctance to seek help from others. 
 Those are serious handicaps, but they could be mitigated if schools became more boy-friendly.
 A few educators have suggested reforms: more games and competitions that appeal to boys, more outdoor exercise, more male teachers, more experiments with single-sex schools. But those ideas have gotten little attention or money. Schools have been too busy trying to close the gender gap in the few areas where boys are ahead, like sports and science. 
 No matter what changes are made to help boys, they'll probably still be less likely than girls to go on to college, simply because girls' skills and interests are better suited to the types of white-collar jobs that now require college degrees. Boys will remain more inclined to skip college in favor of relatively high-paying jobs in fields like construction and manufacturing.
 There's no reason to expect a 50-50 ratio on campus -- and certainly no reason to mandate it. Boys don't need that kind of affirmative action. What they could use, long before college, is equal attention. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WOMEN (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Men; Women; White-Collar Workers; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (52%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



517 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Drop in 9 Years for New-Home Sales

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes fell 10.5 percent in February, the biggest decline in nearly nine years, while prices fell and the number of homes on the market rose to a record, the government said Friday. 
 A separate report said new orders for durable goods outside the transportation sector fell short of forecasts, suggesting weakness in business spending plans.
The reports may influence the Federal Reserve as it considers interest rates at its meeting Monday and Tuesday. The Fed is expected to raise borrowing costs for the 15th time since June 2004.
 ''This is what the Fed wants; they want housing to slow,'' said Robert B. MacIntosh, chief economist at Eaton Vance Management in Boston. ''That is the place where they can most affect wealth creation and spending. The Fed is that much closer to being done. I think they are done after next week.'' 
 According to the Commerce Department, the sales pace of new single-family homes slowed to an annual rate of 1.08 million units in February, from the downward revised January rate of 1.21 million units. 
 Economists had expected new- home sales to decline to a rate of 1.20 million units from January's originally reported rate of 1.23 million units. 
 While new-home sales slowed, supply surged. The number of new homes available for sale climbed to a record 548,000 by the end of the month. At the current sales pace, that represents 6.3 months of supply, the largest inventory of new homes since January 1996, the government report showed. 
 Median home prices declined for the fourth consecutive month, hitting $230,400 in February, the lowest level since July 2005. 
 The Commerce Department also said new orders for durable goods rose 2.6 percent in February, twice forecasts, but a drop in demand outside transportation hinted at weakness in business spending. 
 New orders for durable goods excluding transportation fell 1.3 percent, below Wall Street forecasts for a 0.9 percent rise. Transportation orders surged 13.4 percent. 
 In addition, orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for business spending, dropped 2.3 percent. Wall Street analysts had expected a 1 percent increase.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Median home prices declined for the fourth consecutive month, falling to $230,400 in February. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Graph: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks annual pace of new private homes sold during the month since 2004.Feb.: -10.5%Jan.: -5.3Dec.: +3.1(Source by Commerce Department)Graph: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods since 2004.Feb.: +2.6%Jan.: -8.9Dec.: +2.5(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOME PRICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Housing

COMPANY: EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



518 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Take That Trip Without Going Into Debt

BYLINE: By M. P. Dunleavey

 BODY:
MY husband and I are squabbling over whether we can afford to take a vacation this year.
 Last year, because of unforeseen events, we had to cancel our trip to Turkey. I say, Let's go now! We still have two plane tickets that the airline wouldn't refund, but gave us credit for. He argues that we already have several large expenses on the docket -- including a surprise car repair that keeps generating further repairs -- and he's unwilling to spend more on a full getaway.
I think he's the vacation Grinch. He thinks I'm a free-spending princess who prefers to handle our finances based on what I want rather than what's realistic. 
 So here's my solution. I'm convinced that even when it looks as if all your cash is committed, it's possible to save enough for a vacation this year, if you start now and you're willing to be a little creative.
 ''Creative'' isn't code for booking an excruciatingly frugal trip to Belarus in the off-season (although I hear Minsk is lovely). As I discovered while researching this column, there is a plethora of resources for those who want to save money on their vacation -- but scant advice for those who need to save for the vacation they want.
 Perhaps in this world of easy and ample credit, saving for a vacation is becoming passe. According to a telephone survey last year by Myvesta, a consumer education organization, Americans planned to spend an average of $2,249 on their vacations -- and about a third said they would probably charge their trip. But why suffer a big plastic hangover to pay for a getaway when you can probably save all the cash you'd need?

PRICE IT OUT -- Many would-be vacationers blow their budget long before they pack a suitcase by skipping this step. Spend 30 minutes online -- or with a travel agent -- to research everything from ticket prices to what you're likely to spend on food, lodging and extras.
 Know thyself: Are you a tchotchke hound? Do you need to hit every museum? Build your passions and needs into your overall budget.

MAKE A SCHEDULE -- Let's say you're planning a vacation starting the second week in August. That gives you three and a half months, or 17 weeks, to save before you need to spend a dime on reservations (assuming you make them two weeks in advance). Divide your estimated travel budget by 17 weeks to arrive at the figure you'd need to save per week. A $2,500 goal would require that you set aside about $147 a week, which may seem unlikely -- but it's not impossible. If you already have $500 in savings, you only need to save $117 per week.

USE YOUR REFUND -- Most money experts will tell you that a tax refund means that you foolishly gave the government an interest-free loan all year. I say you've given yourself a windfall. According to the Internal Revenue Service, about 34 million refunds have already been deposited directly into taxpayers' bank accounts. If yours isn't already designated for a home repair or debt repayment, consider using some of your check toward the Great Escape. After all, the average refund is a hefty $2,430.

EMBRACE AUSTERITY, TEMPORARILY -- What could you do without between now and August? Could you switch to basic cable or cut home Internet service, just for three months? Put all clothing purchases off? Live without lattes? Weigh short-term gratification against the greater goal of getting away. If you eat out less or took your lunch to work, how much money would you save? A $7-a-day lunch adds up to about $600 over 17 weeks. Could you save half?

TRICK YOURSELF -- When my husband and I want to juice our savings, we play a game called Save the Fives. Just save every $5 bill you get. You never miss them, but they add up fast. This winter we saved $595.

MAKE SOMEONE ELSE DO THE SAVING -- Americans are notoriously bad at stashing their own cash, a phenomenon that economists say stems from ''status quo bias,'' which means it's easier to keep doing what you're doing than try something new. That's why many successful savers swear by automatic transfers. If your bank moves $50 from checking to savings each week, that's $200 a month you save without blinking.
 While these strategies require some effort, remember that it's only for a few months. Then you get to take a really well-deserved vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); AIRLINES (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TICKET SALES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: M P Dunleavey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BELARUS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



519 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND EUROPE PLAN SANCTIONS AGAINST BELARUS

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from Brussels for this article, Joel Brinkley from Washington and Steven Lee Myers from Moscow.

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, March 24 

 BODY:
The United States and Europe said Friday that they would impose sanctions against President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belarus and other top officials for cracking down on a peaceful protest over his re-election, which was widely seen as a sham.
 The swift and nearly unanimous condemnations from Western nations widened their rift with Belarus and posed new challenges for their relations with Russia, which has stood behind Mr. Lukashenko.
The United States stopped short of cutting its ties with the Belarus government, but a senior State Department official said that travel and financial restrictions already in place on ''fewer than a dozen'' Belarussian government officials would probably be extended to more than 50, including Mr. Lukashenko.
 The European Union announced similar moves. 
 The announcements came as Belarussian authorities were processing hundreds of demonstrators in a Soviet-era prison here in the capital, and holding what the opposition described as closed trials without legal representation or defense witnesses. 
 The opposition also said that since their members were arrested in a police sweep early Friday morning, many detainees had been beaten, denied the use of toilets, forced to stand for hours in subfreezing temperatures, and packed nearly by the score into small prison cells.
 ''It is a horrible violation of human rights and the law,'' said Aleksandr Milinkevich, the principal challenger to Mr. Lukashenko in last Sunday's presidential election. ''They do not consider us to be people.'' 
 Mr. Lukashenko made no immediate comment about the planned sanctions. But Belarus's Foreign Ministry suggested the West was being hypocritical and he hinted at retaliation. 
 ''If the United States and European Union countries respect the people of Belarus, they should respect their choice,'' Andrei Popov, a ministry spokesman, said on national television. ''The Republic of Belarus retains the right to take retaliatory measures.'
 The threat seemed to expand on a remark earlier in the week by Mr. Lukashenko, who said Europe would hardly be able to restrict its trade with Belarus, a main transit route to the West for Russian gas and oil.
 The United States said that it ''condemns the actions of the Belarussian security services'' in which ''they forcibly seized and detained Belarussian citizens who were peacefully demonstrating against the fraudulent March 19 election results,'' according to a State Department statement. 
 The sanctions are likely to irritate Russia, which endorsed the presidential election on Monday and made light of the violence on Friday.
 As many as 1,000 people have been arrested in the past several days for participating in rallies or supporting the opposition, including for trying to give demonstrators food, according to Mr. Milinkevich and Aleksandr Kazulin, another presidential candidate. The United States echoed appeals by both candidates for Belarus to release the detainees immediately.
 ''The United States calls on authorities in Belarus to release without delay the hundreds of citizens who have been detained, not only in the past 24 hours, but in recent days and weeks, simply for expressing their political views,'' said the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan.
 Leaders of the European Union said they would add Mr. Lukashenko's name to an existing visa ban against six Belarussian officials. The move puts him on the same blacklist as Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, and Myanmar's military leaders, all of whom have had their European assets frozen. 
 The Polish foreign minister, Stefan Meller, said the new restrictions, which will take effect around April 10, could involve more than a dozen people. ''This is a fight of good against evil,'' he said.
 The officials subject to the sanctions would be forbidden to travel to the United States or Europe, or to fly on airlines belonging to any of those countries. Assets they hold in American or European banks will probably be frozen, though officials noted that the details had not yet been determined.
 The administration hopes the threat of sanctions might change behavior in Belarus even before the new rules are put into place. Their goal, said the senior State Department official, who declined to be identified under department rules, is to ''hold individuals accountable, to squeeze them'' so that some might ''peel off'' to escape ''the tightening noose.''
 The crackdown creates a fresh strain on relations between the West and Russia, which has congratulated Mr. Lukashenko for his official victory, and said the election, seen in the West as a farce, signified ''the development of democratic institutions and the strengthening of the foundations of civic society in Belarus.''
 Russia, which holds the rotating chairmanship of the Group of Eight industrialized nations, showed no sign on Friday of rejecting its embrace of Mr. Lukashenko, who, according to official results, was re-elected to a third term on Sunday with 83 percent of the vote.
 Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov, at a news conference in Moscow, dismissed the protests as ''illegal activities.'' He accused the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which monitored the elections, of having prejudged them and of instigating the demonstrations that followed.
 ''It has played an inflammatory role,'' Mr. Lavrov said, according to a transcript provided by the Foreign Ministry. ''To goad people into illegal activities is, I think, wrong.''
 Christian Strohal, director of the organization's human rights arm, responded in a statement that Mr. Lavrov's statements showed ''a deliberate disregard'' for the facts.
 The State Department played down the American disagreement with Russia. A spokesman, Adam Ereli, noted that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice spoke with Mr. Lavrov by telephone on Friday and did not even bring up the issue of Belarus.
 Nonetheless, the West's actions may be seen as a challenge in Russia. ''The United States and Europe have laid down markers that it will not accept fraudulent elections in Belarus,'' said Celeste A. Wallander, director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. The implication, she said, is that the West ''will not accept fraud in Russian elections, either.''
 But James. M. Goldgeier, a Russia expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that message may be undercut by the fact that Russia faced no consequences after similar disagreements over other elections in its former republics over the past two years.
 In Minsk, the police crackdown hardly lessened the tension. For all its speed and efficiency, with hundreds of protesters being removed from their camp on October Square by the riot police in less than 25 minutes, the action seemed to have done little to break the opposition's will.
 Opposition members and relatives of those detained gathered outside the walls of the pretrial detention center and cheered every time a bus with detainees left the compound.
 The unrest in recent days was the first sustained public dissent in the 12-year rule of a president often called Europe's last dictator. Freedom of assembly and speech are almost nonexistent here, and the economy remains managed by the state.
 Mr. Milinkevich called for wide sanctions against Belarussian officials, including television journalists who he said knowingly spread lies on state television. He said a rally planned for Saturday would go forward, no matter how few people showed up. 
 The event seems certain to present a fresh challenge to the government, if only on a small scale. Several demonstrators who have thus far eluded arrest said they would appear on October Square, against the government's orders, in a continued show of civil disobedience.
 One young man, who said he escaped from the crackdown early Friday by running from the police as they began seizing the demonstrators, stood on the square Friday afternoon, wearing a red-and-white button that read ''For Freedom.''
 The protester, who gave only his first name, Mikhail, said that he would be back with more demonstrators on Saturday, and that he expected he would be arrested.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about statements from the United States and Europe that they would impose sanctions on Belarus over the crackdown on peaceful protesters after the country's presidential election referred incorrectly to a senior State Department official's estimate of the number of Belarus officials likely to face sanctions. The official said that ''fewer than a dozen'' officials were under sanctions now and that the number would probably increase ''by a factor of five or six.'' The official did not say the number was likely to be more than 50.
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about statements from the United States and Europe that they would impose sanctions on Belarus over the crackdown on peaceful protesters after the country's presidential election referred incorrectly to a senior State Department official's estimate of the number of Belarus officials likely to face sanctions. The official said that ''fewer than a dozen'' officials were under sanctions now and that the number would probably increase ''by a factor of five or six.'' The official did not say the number was likely to be more than 50.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A demonstrator flashed a victory sign yesterday from a prison cell in Minsk, Belarus, after scores of election protesters were arrested. At right, the city's central square was nearly empty hours after the police broke up the protest. (Photo by Sergei Grits/Associated Press)
(Photo by Viktor Drachev/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 An opposition supporter greeted another through a window as a bus arrived at a detention center yesterday in Minsk, Belarus. (Photo by Victor Drachev/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); POLITICS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); PRISONS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); RIOTS (68%); WITNESSES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Politics and Government; Elections; Demonstrations and Riots; Travel Restrictions; Assets, Frozen

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) European Union; State Department

PERSON: C J Chivers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) Belarus; Russia; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



520 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: WITH A SURPLUS, ALBANY PREPARES A TAX CUT BOUNTY

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 24 

 BODY:
Leaders in Albany are negotiating details of a multibillion-dollar tax-cut package for New Yorkers, with relief for married couples, parents and homeowners likely as lawmakers reap the bounty of a $2-billion-to-$4.5 billion surplus.
 Over the last week, the fine print of the tax cuts and details about education spending have been the largest unresolved items in legislative talks. 
But the governor, the Senate and the Assembly all support eliminating the so-called marriage penalty, a feature of the state tax code that can make it expensive for couples living together to marry. They also want to offer parents a tax credit of at least $300 per child, although Gov. George E. Pataki and the Senate want to tie the credit to education.
 While the Senate's top priority is pushing its aggressive tax-cutting plan, the Assembly is focused on increasing school aid in light of court orders to spend billions more on New York City schools. By Friday afternoon, the two houses said they had reached an initial agreement to increase operating aid to schools by $1.1 billion statewide in the coming fiscal year, a $634 million increase over the governor's plan.
 The coalescing budget, expected to range from $111 billion to $113 billion, would almost certainly increase state spending above inflation and authorize enough new borrowing to keep the state's debt burden steadily climbing. (The current budget is $106.4 billion.) Legislators have until the end of next week to strike a deal with the governor to reach their second consecutive on-time agreement after two decades of late budgets.
 Emboldened by a sizable surplus and seeking to give voters a budget bouquet in an election year, the governor and both houses of the Legislature have proposed multiyear, multibillion-dollar tax cut packages, with the most modest proposal coming from the Democratic-led Assembly, which is calling for tax cuts of $2.4 billion annually within three years, compared with $6.3 billion in the proposal by the Republican-led Senate, with the governor in the middle.
 To be determined is how the tax cuts will be structured and whom they will benefit. While the governor's plan would give more than half the income tax relief to New Yorkers earning more than $100,000, the Assembly claims its plan would give 90 percent of the tax relief to those earning less than $100,000. 
 But there are areas of common ground. The proposal to eliminate the marriage penalty would save $821 for a hypothetical married couple with two children and a combined income of $150,000 who use the standard deduction, according to the State Division of the Budget. It would cost the state $1 billion cumulatively over the next three years.
 And all sides seem intent on granting tax credits to lower- and middle-income families with children. Mr. Pataki wants a $500 credit per child, but only to pay for education spending by families living in areas with ''underperforming'' schools, while the Assembly is countering by proposing a general $300 tax credit per child. 
 All three sides also favor giving New Yorkers relief from soaring school property taxes. The Senate wants to send homeowners several hundred dollars' worth of rebates, averaging $750 annually in Nassau County within three years, for instance, while the governor wants to limit the program to school districts that contain new spending, a likely disqualification for New York City homeowners.
 The Assembly wants to limit its proposed $200-to-$400 credit to families earning less than $150,000 whose property taxes add up to more than 7.5 percent of their income. The Assembly would also give credits to renters if 25 percent of their rent exceeded the same 7.5 percent income threshold. 
 Legislative aides said they expected a compromise, but the outcome is hardly certain given the wide differences in the property tax proposals. ''I'm optimistic that all of us intend to do property tax reform; it's a priority,'' said Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate's Republican majority leader, after a public budget meeting on Friday. He added that all three sides ''have substantial property tax reductions'' in their proposals.
 While the leaders agree on the broad outlines of many of their tax cut plans, contentious topics remain, including a proposal from Mr. Pataki to repeal the estate tax and cut personal income taxes. 
 This year, in a baby step bid for openness in the notoriously opaque Albany budget process, Mr. Bruno and the Democratic Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, have actually debated and settled a few issues in public. But muddying the process has been Mr. Pataki's extended convalescence from complications after an appendectomy; he returned to Albany only this week after being absent for more than a month.
 And as usual, lobbyists and special interest groups have turned modest issues into stumbling blocks. Negotiations over the budget for higher education, for instance, were set to conclude midweek but abruptly unraveled, in part because of intense lobbying by commercial colleges, which are fighting cuts to tuition grants available to their students. 
 ''They went backwards,'' Mr. Bruno said, referring to legislative negotiators. ''They thought they had agreement two days ago.''
 Other large issues loom as well with the governor, including unfinished negotiations over cuts to Medicaid and how to distribute federal aid to needy families and the ironing out of details about education aid, perhaps the most contentious topic. 
 Mr. Pataki has expressed concern about the growing size of the budget plans being considered by lawmakers and complained that they had not agreed on how large their own joint proposal would be.
 There is also concern about the state's level of indebtedness. From March 31, 1995, to March 31, 2005, New York State's debt grew to $48.2 billion from $27.9 billion, up 73 percent, and increased to $2,509 from $1,537 per capita, according to an analysis by Alan G. Hevesi, the Democratic state comptroller. Under Mr. Pataki's budget plan, debt would increase more than 17 percent by the end of the decade, to $56.6 billion. It is unlikely that the Legislature will cause that number to shrink. 
 ''Having these high debt levels in a state where local taxes are the highest in the country is driving the economic condition of the state into peril,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed policy organization. ''If they end up increasing spending by as much as they're talking about and supporting it with surplus money, it's going to represent a real lost opportunity,'' she added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); COHABITATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INCOME TAX (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%) Taxation; Marriages; Children and Youth; Property Taxes; Education and Schools; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



521 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: CORRUPTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Translator Is Accused Of Bribery in Kickback Case

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
The Justice Department said yesterday that it had arrested an Iraqi-American translator from Michigan on bribery charges in the latest case involving accusations of corruption, which have become a steady accompaniment to the war in Iraq.
 The Justice Department said the translator, Faheem Mousa Salam, 27, of Livonia, Mich., probably acting as an intermediary for others who have not yet been identified, offered tens of thousands of dollars in bribes to people inside the Iraqi Interior Ministry for a contract to provide some $1 million in flak jackets and other equipment to an organization that trains Iraqi police officers.
 Mr. Salam was working as a translator for the Titan Corporation, a division of the L-3 Government Services Group. The federal complaint says that in the course of his work, Mr. Salam offered $60,000 to an Iraqi police official who eventually referred Mr. Salam to someone the official described as a procurement officer for the American-operated program to train the Iraqi police. 
 In fact, the officer was an undercover agent for the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, an independent office that has been investigating cases of potential fraud, waste and abuse. Mr. Salam repeated his bribery offer and was arrested late Thursday night at Dulles International Airport near Washington, as he returned from Iraq.
 Stuart W. Bowen Jr., who heads the office of the inspector general, said he expected more arrests in the case but declined to give further details or say who had been expected to provide the approximately 1,000 flak jackets -- Mr. Salam showed a sample to the undercover agent -- to the Interior Ministry. Mr. Salam also offered to sell a sophisticated map printer as part of the deal.
 Mr. Bowen said that in the cash economy of Iraq, where traditional investigative methods like tracing money transfers are nonexistent, tracking down fraud is especially challenging. 
 ''We realize we have to use every means at our disposal,'' Mr. Bowen said. The traditional sting operation, he added, ''is one of them.''
 A call to the federal public defender acting as Mr. Salam's lawyer, Tony Axam, went unanswered yesterday. A spokesman for L-3 Government Services, Rick Kiernan, said the reported bribery attempt ''appears to be isolated and not part of a larger incident.''
 ''L-3 has not been related in any way to the incident itself,'' Mr. Kiernan said. ''We have been cooperating with the Department of Justice on this entire matter.''
 The case against Mr. Salam is one of at least eight major cases said to involve bribery, kickbacks, money laundering, conspiracy, fraudulent billing and other crimes that prosecutors say have plagued civilians and military personnel who work with contractors in Iraq.
 At least a dozen arrests have been made and more are expected as the cases widen and new cases emerge. Mr. Bowen said his office alone was investigating around 60 cases that had not yet been made public.
 Still, Mr. Bowen said out-and-out fraud was not pervasive among Americans now in Iraq, adding that many of his cases turned up in the early months after the invasion when controls were especially weak. 
 ''I think it's a few individuals who took advantage of a chaotic situation early on,'' he said, ''and it's my job to track them down and bring them to justice.''
 Of the arrests, at least six involve people who at one time worked directly for Kellogg Brown & Root, the Halliburton subsidiary, or for outside subcontractors working for the company. The Army has awarded Kellogg Brown & Root three huge contracts to do things like deliver food and fuel and repair oil equipment and facilities in Iraq.
 The largest single case has swirled around an American businessman, Philip H. Bloom, who lived in Romania for many years but won at least $8.6 million in reconstruction contracts around Hilla, south of Baghdad, by paying what prosecutors said were hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes in 2003 and 2004 to at least a half-dozen officials in the Coalition Provisional Authority.
 Some expect more arrests. ''I would suspect that the more we peel back on this, the more we're going to find,'' said Steve Ellis, a vice president at Taxpayers for Common Sense in Washington. So many arrests have been announced recently, Mr. Ellis said, that ''it's not until you actually step back and you look at the whole of it that you realize how enormous the waste and corruption may actually be.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Corruption Charges Involving Iraq''Jeff Alex MazonCharged in March 2005 with defrauding the U.S. government of almost $4 million. Trial scheduled for October.Ali HijaziCharged in March 2005 with paying $1 million to receive the fuel tanker subcontract.Glenn Allen PowellCharged with skimming more than $110,000 off a subcontract. Pleaded guilty in August 2005Philip H. BloomRobert J. Stein Jr.Lt. Col. Debra HarrisonLt. Col. Michael WheelerAt least 3 other unnamed co-conspiratorsCharged in a vast bribery and kickback scheme in Hilla, south of Baghdad. Arrests began in November 2005.Christopher CahillCharged with inflating invoices by $1.14 million for phony ''war risk surcharges.'' Pleaded guilty in February.Custer Battles L.L.C.Company found guilty in March of defrauding the United States by filing grossly inflated invoices.Gheevarghese PappenCharged this month with accepting $45,000 in bribes to allow a Kuwaiti rental agent to provide expensive apartments to American military employees.Mohammad Shabbir KhanArrested Wednesday and charged with making false statements in connection with an alleged kickback scheme.Stephen Lowell SeamansCharges unsealed Thursday accusing him of wire fraud for accepting $124,000 in bribes.Faheem Mousa SalamArrested Thursday and charged with offering $60,000 in bribes to the Iraqi Interior Ministry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (96%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); AIRPORTS (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Translation ; Bribery ; Military Equipment

COMPANY: L-3 COMMUNICATIONS TITAN GROUP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%) Justice Department; Titan Corp; L-3 Government Services Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (70%)

PERSON: James Glanz; Faheem Mousa Salam

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



522 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Checketts Buys Blues and Savvis Center 

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Dave Checketts, the former president of Madison Square Garden, acquired the St. Louis Blues and the Savvis Center yesterday for what has been reported to be $150 million.
 Bill and Nancy Laurie, the daughter of a founder of Wal-Mart, acquired the Blues and the arena in 1999, but put them up for sale last June and had negotiated with several potential buyers. They have said that they lost $60 million in the two seasons before the 2004-5 N.H.L. lockout. 
Checketts said in an interview that he would not have been interested in the Blues if not for the National Hockey League's collective bargaining agreement, which instituted a hard salary cap last year. 
 ''That made this the exact right thing to do and to do it now,'' he said. ''The hard salary cap is something I believe in, and it has served the N.H.L. very well.''
 In 2005, Henry and Susan Samueli paid $75 million for the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, which had lost an estimated $40 million in the two seasons preceding the lockout. Jeff Vanderbeek bet on owner-friendlier economics when he bought the Devils in 2004, before the season-long lockout.
 Checketts's purchase is through his company, Sports Capital Partners, and the investment firm TowerBrook Capital Partners. The acquisition requires the approval of the N.H.L. board of governors.
 Although the Blues have 51 points, the second-fewest in the league, Checketts said that the Lauries had left the team with few long-term contracts and little long-term debt. ''Keith Tkachuk has an option for next year and we have to make a decision on that,'' he said. ''Doug Weight was traded away for draft picks. They've been doing what you do to rebuild a franchise.''
 Checketts spent 10 years at the Garden before losing a power struggle in 2001 with James L. Dolan, its chairman. ''We had four different owners in that time, and I wanted a chance to own a team,'' he said. 
 He bid unsuccessfully for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2003, but became the owner of the Real Salt Lake expansion team in Major League Soccer the next year. 
 Checketts is also an investor and board member of JetBlue Airways; a board member of IMG, and a former investor in CSTV. Sports Capital also owns the majority of SportsWest, a producer of college sports programming.
 With Checketts's background, and the presence at Sports Capital Partners of Mike McCarthy, former president of the Madison Square Garden Networks Group, it would not be surprising if the Blues and the Cardinals formed a regional sports network after their Fox Sports Midwest deals end in 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); BASEBALL (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (69%); SOCCER (69%); APPROVALS (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (55%) Hockey, Ice; Savvis Center; Stadiums and Arenas; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (62%); TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS BLUES (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); DALLAS STARS (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); ANAHEIM MIGHTY DUCKS (55%) St Louis Blues; Madison Square Garden

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (62%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (58%) Richard Sandomir; Dave Checketts

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



523 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; OUTDOORS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Off Secluded Shores, Another Alaskan Rush 

BYLINE: By MELISSA LARSEN

DATELINE: YAKUTAT, Alaska 

 BODY:
''I should get on with you,'' said a female flight attendant with a wink as I boarded a plane headed from Anchorage to Yakutat. ''You're the only woman on here.'' 
 I smiled and waited for men with salt-and-pepper hair and bellies hanging over their belts to load fishing rods into overhead bins and take their seats. The man I ended up next to smelled of pipe tobacco and engine oil. He was a local from Cordova who told me about a Yakutat bartender who once blew away a patron with a shotgun for being ''annoying.'' It happened about 10 years ago; I can ask anybody, he said. 
So what's a nice young lady like me doing in a place like this, he asked. 
 Surfing, I replied. 
 The man was startled and then laughed. Now, why would anyone come all this way for that?
 Why, indeed. The price of a plane ticket to southern Alaska can rival the price of one to Indonesia or other dream surfing destinations that do not require a thick wetsuit, booties, a down jacket and rain gear. And, as a World Championship Tour surfer nervously pointed out one afternoon by a beach bonfire made from soggy driftwood and gasoline, tropical beaches don't have bears lurking in the nearby woods. 
 Bears are a threat that none of the locals can tell us how to properly handle. Be loud, the locals tell us, but not aggressive. Wave your arms, but never look them in the eye. And, for heaven's sake, don't run. Attacks are rare, they say, except for that one incident three weeks earlier with the ranger who had to be life-flighted to Anchorage.
 What Alaska does have (besides bears, eagles, wolves, whales, seals, otters, hawks, king salmon, old-growth forests, actively calving glaciers, the highest coastal mountain range in the world and the northern lights) is thousands of miles of coastline, broken up by hundreds of river mouths and dotted with small islands. The coastline has untold numbers of surf breaks that have yet to be charted, much less ridden, by anyone. 
 In a sport where uncrowded spots are not only coveted, but fiercely guarded, and in a culture where the quest for pristine waves is an integral part of the experience, this alone is enough to pique the curiosity of hardy surfers. 
 A reward waiting for those spirited enough to make this journey is water warmer than one would expect. The Kuroshio current flows north from Japan to southern Alaska, resulting in average temperatures in the mid-40's to mid-50's. Even armed with this knowledge, it is still surprising to enter the ocean in full view of the 18,008-foot, snow-covered Mount St. Elias and find that the water feels warmer than that off the coast of Northern California. The waves may not always be spectacular, but the scenery is. 
 Yakutat (population 800), a town with only two paved roads and no way in or out save by boat or plane, lies 212 miles northwest of Juneau and 342 miles southeast of Anchorage. 
 It's at the midpoint of more than 300 miles of sandy beaches off the Gulf of Alaska, and it's home to about two dozen surfers. Friendly surfers. Surfers who are not only willing to tell you which dirt road leads to the best waves, but who also will help pull your rusted rental car, a 1980 Ford Bronco 4 x 4, out of whatever bog you manage to get stuck in on the way. For a small price, they'll even help you charter a small fishing boat or bush plane (or a neighbor's skiff) to hunt for breaks past where the roads end. 
 The self-named ''Surf City, Alaska'' has been called one of the five ''best surf towns'' in America by Outside magazine, and was rated 39th out of 100 adventure spots by National Geographic Adventure. 
 Whether these claims are justified is a matter of debate. The truth behind them, though, is that in an effort to find an economically viable, resource-friendly alternative to its staple sport-fishing industry, Yakutat has been promoting itself as a surf-friendly outpost. 
 Near the end of our trip, we heard that one of the surfers in our group, the six-time world women's champion Layne Beachley, was to be given the key to the city at a cookout in our honor. 
 The rumor was almost true. After a feast of game caught and prepared by various attendees, Casey Mapes, Yakutat's soft-spoken mayor, stood and read a resolution endorsing surfing that had been written and adopted by the City Council. 
 It was long, filled with seemingly endless ''wherein'' statements and somewhat hard to follow. But later, on the ride home, we agreed that it meant essentially this:
 ''We appreciate that surfers enjoy, rather than exploit, the natural resources of our beautiful home, and we would be very happy if more of you came to visit. You're our kind of tourists. With love, Surf City, Alaska.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Layne Beachley surfing within view of icy Mount St. Elias. Ocean currents keep the water around Yakutat warmer than one might think. (Photo by Jon Steele/A-Frame)Map of Alaska highlighting Yakutat: There are no roads leading to Yakutat, a town of 800 people. To get there, you need a boat or a plane.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); MARINE MAMMALS (87%); MOUNTAINS (85%); BEACHES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%) Surfing

PERSON: Melissa Larsen

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%) Yakutat (Alaska)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



524 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Assails Leadership In Ground Zero Stalemate

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a candidate for governor, expressed concern last night that the Freedom Tower project at ground zero lacked ''economic viability'' and could turn into ''a white elephant.'' 
 Mr. Spitzer suggested that, as New York's next governor, he would move more swiftly than Gov. George E. Pataki in rebuilding Lower Manhattan.
In his most expansive comments to date about ground zero, which were made during an interview on NY1 News, Mr. Spitzer said that Mr. Pataki, if anyone, deserved blame for ''a failure of leadership'' that has led to disputes and over plans for the 9/11 site. In turn, he also tacitly defended Larry A. Silverstein, the ground zero developer, who has been accused by Pataki allies of delaying work there out of greed. 
 ''I think it's too bad that people are pointing the finger at one individual and saying he's at fault -- if anybody's responsible, it's the governor,'' said Mr. Spitzer, who is leading in polls for the Democratic nomination. ''The governor must be in a position to demonstrate leadership, get everybody to agree upon a plan.''
 By contrast, Mr. Spitzer said, ''If I'm governor, on January 1, we will put ourselves in a room if this issue isn't resolved and we will get it resolved so quickly that people will say, 'Wow, what happened?' '' 
 Mr. Spitzer raised particular doubts about plans for the Freedom Tower, the symbolic centerpiece of the site, given the challenges of finding tenants and ensuring security and the disputes about the cost and insurance money for the tower.
 ''I certainly think that there's a very serious question about the economic viability of the Freedom Tower,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''The prospect that the Freedom Tower would be built and would sit there vacant -- as essentially a white elephant -- that would sap the entire cash available to build the other buildings, is something that is very problematic.''
 Mr. Spitzer stopped short of seconding Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's call for a sizable residential component at ground zero. But he did indicate that he might try to reorder the sequence of new buildings at the site, which will include towers and a memorial that commemorates the 9/11 attack.
 Mr. Spitzer rarely makes direct, or critical, comparisons between himself and Mr. Pataki, who is stepping down this fall after three terms. 
 David M. Catalfamo, a spokesman for Governor Pataki, replied to Mr. Spitzer's remarks by noting the political environment.
 ''It must be campaign season, because it's the first time that I've heard Eliot Spitzer mention the words 'ground zero' in four years,'' Mr. Catalfamo said.
 Mr. Spitzer answered a range of questions during the half-hour interview. He disclosed that he voted for Michael S. Dukakis for president in 1988 and would have preferred that Mr. Dukakis, a former governor of Massachusetts, as president instead of George H. W. Bush.
 William F. Weld, a Republican candidate for governor, had characterized Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Dukakis as big-government Democrats in a speech on Thursday; Mr. Weld himself is a former governor of Massachusetts.
 In response to Mr. Spitzer's remark, Mr. Weld said last night, ''I'm not at all surprised that Mr. Spitzer voted for Governor Dukakis, as they both appear to embrace the 'nanny state' approach to government.''
 Mr. Spitzer also ruled out attacking Mr. Weld over his leadership at Decker College, a bankrupt Kentucky trade school that is now under federal investigation for alleged financial aid fraud. ''It's not relevant to me,'' Mr. Spitzer said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer called Freedom Tower project plans ''problematic.'' (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (74%) Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Elections; Governors (US); Election Issues 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Patrick Healy; George E (Gov) Pataki; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



525 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: ESPIONAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Inquiry Finds Russians Passed Spy Data to Iraq in '03

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24 

 BODY:
Captured Iraqi documents describe a Russian spy operation that was aimed at the United States Central Command in the early days of the American invasion of Iraq in 2003, according to a new American military report. The report says information on war plans and troop movements was passed through the Russian ambassador in Baghdad. 
 Revelation of the operation, contained in the public version of a Joint Forces Command classified study, the Iraqi Perspectives Project, may have more political than military significance because American forces overwhelmed the underequipped and poorly led Iraqi Army to oust Saddam Hussein.
The information in the military study, an analysis based on captured documents and interviews with Iraqi military and political leaders, makes it difficult to get a clear picture of the Russian spy operation. It says a captured Iraqi document cited ''information that the Russians have collected from their sources inside the American Central Command in Doha,'' in Qatar.
 But the study notes that some information obtained by Iraq from Russian sources was false, raising at least the possibility that it was circulated as part of a deliberate American campaign intended to fool or demoralize Iraqi troops and leaders. Military officers have disclosed separately that false war plans were part of the campaign, and it remains unclear whether any Russians may have played into that strategy.
 The Central Command, responsible for American military actions from the Red Sea to the Indian Ocean, led the Iraq war from headquarters in Qatar, where access was highly restricted. But the documents cite the Qatar headquarters as the source of the intelligence.
 ''Significantly, the regime was also receiving intelligence from the Russians that fed suspicions that the attack out of Kuwait was merely a diversion,'' the report states, citing a document sent to Mr. Hussein on March 24, 2003.
 The Russian report stated -- inaccurately -- that the coalition thrust into Baghdad would come from the west and would await the Fourth Infantry Division, whose entry from the north was vetoed by Turkey. In fact, the main lines of the offensive moved from Kuwait in the south before the arrival of the Fourth Infantry.
 An author of the study, Kevin M. Woods, said during a Pentagon news conference that there was no obvious reason to doubt the authenticity of the documents.
 At the same briefing, Brig. Gen. Anthony Cucolo, in charge of the unit that conducted the study, said any intelligence-gathering by the Russians was very likely motivated by economic ties with Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Espionage

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (68%); RED SEA (54%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); QATAR (94%); KUWAIT (92%); TURKEY (79%) Iraq; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



526 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Happiness Is a Warm Gun 

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It doesn't take much to make Dick Cheney happy. According to a list of his travel perks, printed by the Smoking Gun Web site, all he needs is a few cans of caffeine-free Diet Sprite, a big bed, a pot of decaf. (And global hegemony, of course.) Dr. Gloom, who once dismissed conservation as a ''personal virtue,'' likes all the lights blazing before he gets to a hotel suite and all the TV's beaming Fox News.
 Sometimes happiness means being protected from news about other people's unhappiness. 
 Washington may be gripped by a malaise over the miasma in Iraq. But elsewhere, in business, books and academia, there is a scavenger hunt under way to root out the scientific, economic and emotional reasons for joy.
 When I was in college, in the Vietnam-Watergate era, sullen mugs trumped smiley faces.
 ''Happiness was very uncool,'' my friend Michael Kinsley recalls of his Harvard days. ''There was a huge premium on being depressed.''
 Leon Wieseltier, who graduated from Columbia about the same time, agrees that ''happiness was considered embarrassing, a mark of shallowness.'' He still calls joie de vivre ''a sign that you're not paying attention.''
 But in the Ivy League now, students are eager to embrace the group therapy of positive thinking. As Carey Goldberg wrote in The Boston Globe, the most popular Harvard course is one taught by Tal Ben-Shahar about how to shed pathologies. 
 You'd think just being lucky enough to get that Harvard edge would cause elation. But Ms. Goldberg reported that more than 800 students left smiling and cheering after hearing Dr. Ben-Shahar offer self-help formulas like these: ''Learn to fail or fail to learn''; don't think, ''It happened for the best,'' but rather, ''How can I make the best of what happened?''
 He meditated with the students, telling them to ''give yourself permission to just be.'' A gut on trusting your gut. 
 If there's post-traumatic stress disorder, he told me, there can be ''post-peak-experience order,'' spurred by music or giving birth. Or making love -- but ''not all the time, unfortunately,'' he said, laughing.
 Martin Seligman, a University of Pennsylvania professor who popularized positive psychology, says the field is growing because there are ways to measure happiness. He adds: ''The epidemic of depression seems to be completely democratic. It hits the Harvard kids and the rich people and the poor people at about an equal rate.''
 Dr. Seligman developed the theory of ''learned helplessness.'' He found that dogs who were given shocks for anything they did would become passive, accepting shocks they could escape if they tried. Humans, he says, should try to escape the culture of victimology, the self-absorption of ''a huge I and a small we,'' and shortcuts like drugs and shopping. 
 In his class, he offers ''positive emotion'' exercises. One is writing down three things that went well during the day. Another is taking someone on a ''strength date,'' encouraging the person to show off a skill or a talent. Another is writing a ''forgiveness letter.'' (I'm Irish, so I won't be doing that.)
 One of his teaching assistants once told his students they'd all get A's, in the spirit of positive emotions. But we don't need to worry about a placid Stepford universe. The guru of good vibes, as Dr. Seligman is called, warns that people can increase their happiness only within a ''set range.'' 
 ''It's like a waistline,'' he says. ''Everyone can't be happier in the pleasure sense. Maybe people can be happier in the engagement sense'' -- for example, taking a job where you use your strengths every day -- ''and in the sense of more meaning in life.''
 Studies show the happiest people are the most resilient. (And probably regard positive-psych classes as demented psychobabble?) Since they didn't have to learn to be resilient in the Depression and World War II, yuppies and their offspring succumbed to narcissism and materialism. 
 They say money can't buy happiness, but maybe it can buy some of it. In 2004, two economists declared that money seemed to buy greater happiness but, surprisingly, not more sex. (Explain Ron Perelman.) David Blanchflower of Dartmouth and Andrew Oswald of the University of Warwick in England calculated that if you increased your sexual activity from once a month to once a week, you'd be as happy as if you had an extra $50,000 a year. 
 But is the converse true? For $50,000 more, you're just as happy as you'd be if you had quadrupled your sex? Along these lines, how much will it cost us to get rid of Dick Cheney and end his trillion-dollar war, because that would buy us happiness? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); DEPRESSION (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (65%) Emotions

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%) Maureen Dowd

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



527 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Merck Withdraws After Bayer Tops Bid for Schering 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 24 

 BODY:
The drug and chemical giant Bayer looked set to win the drug maker Schering for 16.3 billion euros ($19.6 billion) on Friday after a rival, Merck of Germany, pulled out of the bidding. 
 Merck, whose offer of 77 euros a share ($93) for Schering was exceeded late Thursday by Bayer's bid of 86 euros ($104), said it would walk away from the planned takeover because a higher price was not justified.
If the bid by Bayer goes through, it would create a group with sales of about 15 billion euros ($18 billion), putting back on the map a German drug industry that has lost its onetime status as druggist to the world.
 Analysts welcomed the deal, saying it would improve profit margins and reduce Bayer's exposure to economic cycles. The company also has large plastics and chemicals divisions.
 ''Bayer is clearly gaining critical mass, especially in special pharmaceutical niche markets, and has huge synergies,'' Sal. Oppenheim & Company in Frankfurt wrote in a note.
 The deal gives Bayer -- still smarting from a $1 billion recall of the anticholesterol drug Baycol in 2001 -- access to Yasmin, the Schering oral birth control drug that is the world's top seller. It will also get its hands on the multiple sclerosis treatment Betaseron, which Schering expects will reach 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in annual sales.
 The combined drug business, to be called Bayer-Schering Pharmaceuticals, will have sales of 9 billion euros ($10.8 billion) and be based in Berlin. The companies are not affiliated with similarly named American companies: Merck & Company and Schering-Plough.
 Shares in Bayer were 1.6 percent higher, while Merck shares turned positive after bid was dropped. 
 The chief executive of Merck, Michael Roemer, said that his company still thought a merger with Schering had been a good idea.
 The pullout leaves Merck, a 338-year-old group, desperately seeking ways to grow. It said that it would assess all options to bolster its pharmaceuticals and chemicals units but that it was not interested in Altana of Germany, which itself is examining options for its drug unit.
 Schering said Bayer's bid was ''extremely attractive'' and that it would recommend it to shareholders.
 ''It is not possible for Schering to maintain its independence, given the Bayer offer,'' the chief executive of Schering, Hubertus Erlen, said.
 Werner Wenning, chairman of Bayer, said the combined company would use Schering's network in the United States to market Bayer's new drug hope, the cancer treatment Nexavar.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hubertus Erlen, chief executive of Schering, right, arrived for a news conference in Berlin yesterday. (Photo by Adam Berry/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); EURO (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); CANCER (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (66%); ONCOLOGY (65%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%); MERCK & CO INC (94%); BAYER SCHERING PHARMA AG (56%); SAL OPPENHEIM JR & CIE KGAA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayer Ag; Schering Ag; Merck (German Co)

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%); MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: WERNER WENNING (89%) Michael Roemer; Hubertus Erlen; Werner Wenning

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



528 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: H&R Block's Troubles Offer Opportunities for Rivals and Taxpayers

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
It has been one black eye after another for H&R Block this tax season, and its competitors smell blood, which may be good for taxpayers.
 ''The category is getting more competitive,'' Brad C. Iversen, H&R Block's senior vice president and chief marketing officer, acknowledged this week.
With the April 17 filing deadline looming, Block is trying to limit the damage. The company, with about 11,000 offices, estimated that it could end the season having lost up to 2 percent of its customers, the fourth consecutive year of decline. Some of those customers have been walking in the doors of Jackson Hewitt Tax Service and Liberty Tax Service. 
 And that's where the fun begins for stragglers. Expect the tax preparers -- those with storefronts and tax software -- to trip over themselves to lure you in. H&R Block, for one, is extending its Double Your Refund sweepstakes through April 17. 
 The year started off badly for H&R Block. The company turned away 250,000 customers when a computer malfunction in early January prevented employees from preparing returns. Then H&R Block, which is the nation's largest tax preparer, announced in February that it had made errors on its corporate taxes, leading to an inevitable David Letterman Top 10 list of H&R Block's excuses. (''No. 9: Forgot to carry the one 32 million times.'')
 That embarrassment was followed by two lawsuits. Bill Lockyer, the California attorney general, sued the company over the marketing of ''instant'' tax refunds, which he said were loans with annual interest rates that ''could be in excess of 500 percent.'' Mr. Lockyer also asserted that some instant refunds were not issued any faster than a refund from an electronically filed return. 
 And this month, Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, accused Block of steering low-income customers into individual retirement accounts that charged high fees and provided low rates of return. Mr. Spitzer said the investments were ''virtually guaranteed to lose money.''
 H&R Block is vigorously disputing the claims of the attorneys general. But it is mostly the competition, not the bad publicity, that is hurting the company's business, said securities analysts and Block's competitors. 
 ''I don't think a lot of people who are going into the stores have heard of Eliot Spitzer or care,'' said Brad Henske, senior vice president in charge of Intuit's TurboTax software unit, which is also planning an indirect assault on Block's storefront business with a new product it is market testing.
 The actions by the attorneys general do, however, point out a larger consumer issue with the tax preparation services: the obsession with the refund. Tax preparation is a good business not only because consumers see doing their taxes as difficult and time-consuming. It is attractive because it is a recurring business. Every year there are federal income taxpayers, currently 134 million of them. That pool has been growing at a rate of 1.1 percent a year, according to the Internal Revenue Service, though companies would see far more growth if they could win customers who do their own taxes or go to a mom-and-pop tax preparer.
 More than anything, it is an appealing business because the tax system is set up so the government withdraws too much money from workers' paychecks and then pays it back to them the next year. This has caused taxpayers to think of tax refunds as a bonus to their pay. Big is better, when they should be thinking of how to have less money withheld. 
 A few calculations on Form W-4 would reduce the withholding -- and make the weekly paycheck bigger. The form is complicated and most taxpayers could use the assistance, yet Mr. Lockyer, the California attorney general, noted in his lawsuit against Block that the company ''has not effectively provided information about adjusted withholding.'' 
 The tax-preparation business is made even sweeter because of the earned-income tax credit. Congress created this credit to assist low-income Americans by giving them additional money with their tax refund. 
 Fewer than 20 percent of American taxpayers claim the credit, but those who do make up about 70 percent of Block's instant-refund business, the California lawsuit said. Under an I.R.S. program known as Advance E.I.T.C., a taxpayer can choose to have the money distributed in paychecks throughout the year rather than in a lump sum. But few people are ever advised of this option, according to Mr. Lockyer.
 H&R Block has said the California lawsuit has no merit. The company has also rebutted Mr. Spitzer's charges. The company said it believed that refunds encouraged savings. It has helped more than four million of its customers with an Express IRA to claim the government's Retirement Savings Contribution Credit, which matches a portion of a retirement plan contribution made by families with incomes less than $50,000. That's about a quarter of all Saver's Credit claims made, it said, though it also said it has lost money on the I.R.A. program.
 Consumers can avoid the problem by filing digitally -- it's free for families making less than $50,000 -- and then having the money deposited directly into a bank or credit union. 
 Block faces this problem with regulators in part because of its size, with 20 percent of the paid tax preparer market. But because it is having trouble getting more customers in the door, the company needs the cross-selling of other revenue-producing products more than ever to bolster its results. Having tax preparers recommending I.R.A.'s or loans seems to work. In the first two months of this year, the average fee per Block customer was $153.20, up 6.2 percent from a year ago even though the number of customers fell almost 1 percent. 
 Only about half of Block's business is tax preparation. It has a subprime mortgage unit, OptionsOne, and a financial advisory service, RSM McGladrey. This month, federal regulators approved Block's application to start a savings bank. Scott Schneeberger, an analyst with Lehman Brothers, said OptionsOne had not provided the anticipated cross-selling opportunities. Mr. Schneeberger added that Block's 26,000 tax professionals provided 106,000 leads to its financial advisers in its 2005 fiscal year. Owning a bank will enable it to offer products without having to share fees with a partner.
 ''They are getting there,'' said Mr. Schneeberger, who notes that Block only recently began expanding and intends to add 500 to 700 new offices and another 400 kiosks in Wal-Mart and Sears stores this fiscal year. ''I find them late to the game on a lot of important issues,'' he said. 
 Block is not the only one pushing these revenue-enhancing products. Jackson Hewitt and Liberty also sell refund-anticipation loans. The tax software companies are not immune to cross-selling, either. While TurboTax does not offer loans, a user of Intuit's TurboTax is inundated with offers to convert a refund into discount gift cards. 
 Jackson Hewitt is growing faster than Block this year because its ''Money Now'' loan promotion went a little further. Most people wait to file their taxes after they receive their W-2's at the end of January. Jackson Hewitt, with 6,000 stores and 4 percent market share, jumped the gun and grabbed 10 percent more customers by computing the refund with the last paycheck of the year, not the W-2. ''Block was outmaneuvered,'' said Michael Millman of Millman Research Associates, a securities analysis firm.
 John Hewitt, the chief executive of Liberty Tax, the industry upstart with 2000 storefronts and only 1 percent of the paid preparer market, said his company was less reliant on therefund-anticipation loans. Mr. Hewitt worked as an executive at H&R Block and founded Jackson Hewitt, sold that company and started the privately held Liberty Tax.
 ''Cross-marketing is an indication of the problem,'' Mr. Hewitt said of Block. Preparers there have to ask questions that have nothing to do with income tax. ''It's turning off the preparer base,'' he said. 
 Mr. Iversen of H&R Block said its employees were as motivated as ever. The company is planning new marketing campaigns to help salvage the season. Mr. Iversen would not reveal how the company will try to lure more taxpayers into its offices, but he said the Double Your Refund sweepstakes in which taxpayers are given scratch-off prize cards, is working very well to build traffic. 
 Intuit is also trying to go after Block's storefront business with a hybrid software product called TurboTax Personal Pro (personalpro.turbotax.com). With about 80 percent of taxpayers who use tax software buying TurboTax and 20 percent buying TaxCut software, Intuit wants to attract even more customers. ''We've been acquiring them already from tax preparers, but we want to acquire them at a faster rate,'' said Barry Saik, vice president in charge of the test marketing. 
 For $99, the taxpayer in this market test enters data online while a tax professional stands by via an online chat window to answer any questions about what goes where. They talk by phone to find additional ways to reduce the taxes and then the professional fills out the 1040 form and files it with the I.R.S. ''They just want a human to tell them it is O.K.,'' Mr. Henske said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Brady, left, having his taxes prepared yesterday at an H&R Block office in Philadelphia. The company is the nation's largest tax preparer. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C6)
Incentives line the windows of an H&R Block office in Philadelphia. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Who's Doing Your Taxes?''Though H&R Block is the nation's largest tax preparer, it does face competition, especially from Intuit, which makes the TurboTax software.SHARE OF TAX RETURNSFiscal year '05, Total: 134 millionPREPARED: 80 millionSELF-PREPARED: 54 millionJackson Hewitt Tax Service: 4%Liberty Tax Service: 1%H&R Block: 20%Certified public accountants and others: 75%H&R Block (TaxCut software): 6%Paper filers and others: 71%Intuit (TurboTax): 23%(Sources by Internal Revenue Service
Lehman Brothers
 company reports)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SWEEPSTAKES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%); LITIGATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (61%) Taxation

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%); JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (57%); JTH HOLDING INC (56%); INTUIT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%) Block, H&r, Inc 

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%); TAX (NASDAQ) (56%); INTU (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (67%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%) Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006



529 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: AIR PASSES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: With Some Limitations, a Bargain on Fares

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
IF you've ever traveled through Europe with a backpack and some time on your hands, you've probably ridden the rails using a Eurailpass, still one of the best ways to visit multiple countries in Europe in one trip. For travelers venturing to parts of the globe where there may not be an extensive rail network, air passes offer another way to cover large distances. The passes are sold by about a dozen airlines around the world, and typically allow you to fly to multiple cities within a country or region -- sometimes for hundreds of dollars less than you'd pay if you bought individual tickets. But consumers should be aware that the passes usually have to be used within 21 days or a month, and they often involve some booking quirks and restrictions. 
 For instance, unlike some Eurailpasses, which allow unlimited travel within a given time period, air passes are generally priced based on the number of segments you plan to fly, and you often have to book your flights in advance (rather than deciding on a rainy day in midtrip that it's time to move on to a sunnier city). And in some cases, you have to fly to your original destination on the foreign carrier that sells the air pass -- or one of its partners -- rather than using, say, a United States airline.
Take Cathay Pacific, which offers an All Asia Pass for $1,499, plus taxes, that includes round-trip economy class travel to Hong Kong from Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Toronto or Vancouver, British Columbia; plus 21 days of travel to any of 17 destinations in Asia, including Bali, Bangkok, Singapore and Tokyo. You can save $200 off that price by signing up for Cathay Pacific's free Cyber Traveler program on its Web site, but as with most air passes, there are some extra fees that can add a few hundred dollars to the final total you'll pay.
 Among those extra fees is a surcharge of $100 each way if you want to depart or return to the United States on Thursday through Sunday, and a $350 surcharge if you want to travel between May 19 and Aug. 20, plus the cost of a ticket to one of Cathay Pacific's gateway cities if you live elsewhere in the United States. Regardless of when you travel, you have to pay various government and airport taxes, which can add up to $100 or more, depending on the number of cities you visit. There's also a $100 fee if you have to change your itinerary. And if you want to upgrade to business class for the trans-Pacific portion of your trip, that bigger seat will cost you an extra $2,200 round trip.
 Although most air passes involve similar surcharges and restrictions, the airlines are generally good about outlining these terms on their Web sites, so you can crunch the numbers on your own or with the help of a travel agent to determine if an air pass is a good deal for your trip. Other airlines that offer similar passes include Qantas (for travel to and around Australia), Aerolineas Argentinas (for travel within Argentina), Varig (for travel within Brazil), and Japan Airlines (for travel within Japan). SAS and Iberia also offer air passes for travel within Europe, as does a company called Europebyair, though its pass involves flying on mostly obscure airlines; for travel within Europe you can often get better deals through Europe's many low-cost carriers. 
 Some air passes -- like Cathay Pacific's All Asia Pass -- must be bought through a travel agent. But even when you can buy a pass directly from the airline -- as is the case with the passes available from Aerolineas Argentinas, Japan Airlines, Qantas and Varig -- an agent who is familiar with these deals, and your destination, can help you plan an itinerary that won't make you feel like a rock star on a city-a-day tour. (Given the complications involved in booking these tickets, the passes are generally not available for purchase online.)
 Marianne Lai Yee, sales manager for Tulips Travel, an agency in Great Neck, N.Y., said she had a client who wanted to book a Cathay Pacific pass to all 17 places offered as options, but Ms. Yee said that most people pick about six cities to visit during a 21-day trip. ''Generally speaking, if you go to six or more cities, you probably save at least five or six hundred dollars,'' Ms. Yee said. ''Of course, the more places you visit, the better deal it is,'' she said, adding that just flying between Tokyo and Hong Kong can cost $800 round trip. 
 She also pointed out another quirk of Cathay Pacific's pass: in most instances, you have to return to Hong Kong each time you want to fly to a different city, so if you're pressed for time, you may be better off buying a ticket on a regional carrier that connects the cities you want to visit. (The Web site www.oag.com has a tool that lets you look up which carriers fly between whichever two cities you enter; choose Airport & Airline Guides and then Airlines by Route to gain access to this handy feature.)
 For travel within Brazil, the cost of an air pass on Varig is $672 plus taxes for up to five flights, or $479 for up to four flights if you fly to Brazil on a Star Alliance carrier. If you're flying into Rio de Janeiro and plan to visit only two other cities -- say, Salvador and Recife -- you could buy three one-way tickets on GOL, a Brazilian low-fare carrier, and pay about $286 plus taxes (assuming you were able to book the airline's lowest fares). But if you add Manaus to your itinerary, the pass becomes a better deal.
 Another attractive deal is the Aussie Air Pass offered by Qantas. For a base price starting at $999, you can fly from Los Angeles, San Francisco (starting March 29) or Honolulu to Australia and take three additional flights within the country. The pass costs an extra $300 if you're departing from the East Coast, and $50 to $260 more if you're flying from the Midwest or elsewhere on the West Coast. There's also a surcharge of $200 to $400 if you choose to visit certain destinations in Australia, like Cairns or Perth. Still, it's a good deal if you're visiting at least a couple of other cities since the price for a round-trip ticket from Los Angeles to Sydney typically starts around $1,100, and even flying within Australia on Virgin Blue, a low-fare carrier, you're likely to pay $80 or more for each one-way ticket. 
 One thing to keep in mind if you're considering an air pass -- or any flight on a foreign airline -- is that some of these tickets, including the Aerolineas Argentinas and Qantas passes, are nonrefundable, and even if you do get a credit toward a future flight if you have to cancel, you may not fly that airline before the credit expires. 
 But if you're flying to a faraway place and want to cover a lot of ground, or rather, skip the ground travel and save time by flying, an air pass can make that feasible.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)Chart:''Covering Ground in the Air''Prices for the following air passes do not include government and airport taxes and fees.ASIACathay PacificAll Asia Pass(cathay-usa.com)from $1,499 (includes flight from U.S. to Hong Kong and travel to any of 17 cities in Asia).Japan AirlinesWelcome to Japan Fare(japanair.com)$103 per flight segment within Japan
can fly to Japan on any airline.Thai AirDiscover Thailand Fare(thaiair.com)$169 for three flights within Thailand
$59 for each additional flight coupon. Can fly to Thailand on any airline.AUSTRALIAQantasAussie AirPass(qantasusa.com)from $999 (includes flight from U.S. to Australia and three flights within Australia).SOUTH AMERICAAerolineas ArgentinasVisit Argentina(aerolineas.com.ar)$33 to $299 per flight within Argentina, depending on the route
can fly to Argentina on any airline.TAM Brazilian AirlinesBrazil Airpass(tamairlines.com)$560 for up to four flights within Brazil
can fly to Brazil on any airline.VarigBrazil Airpass(varigbrasil.com)$672 for up to five flights within Brazil
 can fly to Brazil on any airline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); AIR FARES (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); TICKET SALES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); WEB SITES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%)

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

PERSON: Susan Stellin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



530 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Naomi Fraenkel, James Altschul

 BODY:
Naomi Rosamond Fraenkel and James Sloan Altschul were married last night at the Harvard Faculty Club in Cambridge, Mass. Rabbi Jill Hausman officiated. 
 The bride, 31, is keeping her name. A senior planner and economist for the New York district of the Army Corps of Engineers, she specializes in planning for commercial navigation. She received undergraduate degrees from Barnard and from the School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia. She has a master's degree in urban planning and public policy from Harvard.
She is the daughter of Margaret Duncan and Dan Fraenkel of Brookline, Mass. Her father is a professor of microbiology at Harvard Medical School. Her mother is a senior staff member and a microbiologist at the Forsythe Institute, a biomedical research facility in Boston.
 The bridegroom, 45, is the president of the K-One Investment Company in New York. He graduated from Harvard and received M.B.A. and law degrees from Columbia.
 He is the son of Marylin Bender Altschul of New York and the late Selig Altschul. His mother retired as a business news reporter and editor at The New York Times. She is also the author of several nonfiction books, including ''The Beautiful People'' (Coward-McCann, 1967) and ''The Chosen Instrument: Juan Trippe, Pan Am, the Rise and Fall of an American Entrepreneur'' (Simon & Schuster, 1982), which was written with her husband, who was the president of Aviation Advisory Service, a financial consulting firm in New York that specializes in the airline and aerospace industries.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ryan Jensen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); BIOMEDICINE (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); WRITERS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); BIOLOGY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); ARMIES (57%); CITY GOVERNMENT (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



531 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Disclosure Rules for Co-op Sales

 BODY:

Q. As a co-op director, I have been asked whether shareholders who sell their units must provide buyers with the disclosure statements required by the state's Real Property Law. Since only shares in the co-op corporation are actually being sold, does this law apply to co-ops? Keith Gordon, Mohegan Lake, N.Y.

A. Edward I. Sumber, a real estate lawyer in White Plains, said that the Property Condition Disclosure Act, which became a New York law in 2002, specifically excludes co-ops and condominiums. 
But the law does require sellers of one- to four-family homes to provide buyers with a 48-question Property Condition Disclosure Statement before the contracts are signed. ''The penalty for failure to comply with the law is $500 payable to the buyer at the time of closing,'' Mr. Sumber said. 

Super No Longer Lives In: Can the Landlord Do This?

Q. I have lived in my rent-stabilized apartment for more than 25 years. The building has 48 units, and we have always had a superintendent who lives in the building. Is it lawful for the new owner, who has brought in new management, to have a super who does not live in the building? John McLoughlin, Manhattan

A. Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan real estate lawyer and the editor of The Landlord-Tenant Monthly, said the New York City Housing Maintenance Code requires owners of buildings with nine or more units to provide janitorial services. If the owner lives in the building, he can perform those services himself. Otherwise, he must hire a janitor.
 Mr. Ferrara noted that while the terms superintendent and janitor are sometimes used interchangeably, the law uses only the term janitor.
 ''This individual may reside in the building, but it is not mandatory that he do so,'' Mr. Ferrara said. But he noted that the law requires the janitor to live within a block of the building or no more than 200 feet away, whichever is greater. 
 The law also allows an owner to hire an outside company to perform janitorial services, Mr. Ferrara said, but the company must be available on a 24-hour basis every day of the year.
 He said that within five days of a change in janitor, an owner is required to post a notice in the building with the new janitor's name, address and telephone number.
 Mr. Ferrara said that if residents notice a decrease in services as a result of a change in janitors, the rent-regulated tenants may file a complaint with the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal. Residents can also withhold part of their rent and raise any problems caused by the change as a defense in any nonpayment case begun by the landlord. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (88%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



532 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The Case of the Missing Golf and Other Mysteries 

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
VOLKSWAGEN may be known for its memorable television commercials -- from the ''da da da'' soundtrack to the mock-German hipsters now peddling GTI's -- but the company's recent performance has been more like a situation comedy. 
 ''The Volkswagen Show'' is replete with bad timing; an overpriced cast of cars; a dwindling and skeptical audience; and technical glitches galore. 
Consider the new Golf's inexplicable absence from American roads. The fuel-sipping hatchback has been a European best seller since it was redesigned in 2003. But VW continued to sell the last-generation Golf here -- as if Americans wouldn't know better, or didn't care that they weren't considered worthy of fresher goods. 
 In the interim, a Golf rival, the redesigned Honda Civic, arrived right on time. The Civic not only swept most of the top new-car awards, it comes in a hybrid version that delivered 45 m.p.g. in my own testing.
 While the new-but-not-so-new Golf is now due to slip into American ports in June, it may have squandered its chance to reach dealers with much momentum.
 VW is already known for the lateness and lost opportunities that took root in the company while Ferdinand K. Piech was chief executive, pursuing his dream of transforming the ''people's car'' company into a luxury manufacturer on par with Mercedes-Benz. Of late, as chairman of VW's supervisory board, Mr. Piech has pointed fingers for the company's troubles at the current chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, the protege he recruited in 2002.
 While VW's travails are deep and wide -- including a German bribery and corruption scandal in which managers were accused of buying labor officials' support by arranging sexual favors from prostitutes -- its problems here are not so exotic, centering on products that have been late, mispriced or missing altogether.
 Almost a decade after the Toyota RAV4 unleashed a wave of interest in small car-based sport utility wagons, VW still has no entry in that booming segment. As rivals roll out their latest fuel-sipping small cars and hybrids, VW's response consists of old-school diesels, too dirty to be sold in California and the Northeast, the nation's biggest car markets.
 When ignition coils in VW's and Audis began failing en masse, and a shortage of replacement parts left some owners stranded, VW stonewalled until widespread bad publicity finally forced it to issue a recall. 
 In the United States, VW has not even been able to steal customers from General Motors and Ford, unlike most of its Japanese and Korean rivals. While companies like Toyota have grown fat on Detroit's lost generations, VW's American market share has steadily fallen -- to about 1.3 percent last year from 2.1 percent in 2001. Americans bought barely 224,000 VW-brand cars last year, down 37 percent in four years.
 Across the Atlantic, a jump in earnings cannot mask serious problems. VW is shedding 20,000 workers (who rank among the industry's highest paid and least productive). But on a potentially brighter note, the company hired Wolfgang Bernhard, who won respect in Detroit as the No. 2 executive during Chrysler's turnaround, to run the VW brand.
 VW's slide may have begun with Mr. Piech's envious gaze up the luxury mountain. His golden calf was the Phaeton sedan, priced at $70,000 to over $100,000, which has been mercifully euthanized in North America. Despite fire-sale discounts, just 820 Phaetons were sold last year.
 While VW is hardly the first automaker to embark on an ego-driven lark, its Neverland approach -- indulging design whims and pricing cars with seemingly no thought to the competition -- has trickled down the lineup. 
 The Phaeton's bitter fruits include the latest Passat, a once-great family sedan that now cavorts in luxury drag. With V-6 models priced from $30,000 to more than $40,000, and tepid sales so far, the redesigned Passat is proving that buyers can spell the difference between VW and BMW. 
 Once the mascot of American college students, the Jetta has gone Wall Street. Ads promoted the awkwardly restyled model and its target audience as ''all grown up.'' But some of these college grads apparently studied math: sales of the pricey new Jetta are down nearly 30 percent from their peak in 2000-02. 
 Still more luxury is afoot: the Eos convertible arrives late this year at an estimated $30,000 to $40,000, and a diesel Touareg S.U.V. will run about $67,000. (The Golf, at least, should start around $16,000). Even the fine new GTI, which recaptures the thrills of America's original hot hatchback, can top $29,000 -- some $6,000 more than a formidable rival, the Honda Civic Si. 
 VW's upscale strategy has hurt Audi, the company's pedigreed luxury brand, and not just because the Phaeton competed against the Audi A8. It is no wonder that sales of Audis are flat, given that other mixed-up VW mutts are nipping at their heels.
 In other costly distractions, Mr. Piech added Lamborghini, Bentley and Bugatti to his toy chest. These are cool cars, but they look better in hip-hop videos than on the balance sheet. The $1.3 million Bugatti Veyron 16.4 has 1,000 horsepower, exceeds 250 m.p.h. and is as relevant to VW's core business as a Mars rover. 
 Most mystifying is that VW, whose original Beetle essentially invented the economy car, seems to have virtually ceded that market. To some extent, that is because high labor costs and the euro's strength against the dollar make it hard for a German company to sell low-price cars here.
 Another problem is a perception of inferior quality. VW consistently ranks near the bottom of the three-year dependability study by J. D. Power & Associates; in 2005, it ranked 34th out of 37 brands.
 With Americans seeking higher mileage, VW needs to show it's in the game. While consumers associate Toyota with hybrids, VW is positioned to win gold stars with diesels, but it needs to roll out cleaner versions that can meet strict new emissions rules and be sold in all states. 
 While VW's song may sound like a requiem, other automakers have rebounded against greater odds. Nissan was nearly bankrupt before Carlos Ghosn took over; today, its profits are the envy of the industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SCANDALS (68%); BRIBERY (62%); PROSTITUTION (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: FERDINAND K PIECH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



533 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: In Denver, Home Is Where the Art Is

BYLINE: By MINDY SINK

DATELINE: Denver 

 BODY:
TOM AND JANET HORAN were delighted to watch as an addition to the Denver Museum of Art was going up on the edge of downtown here in a neighborhood called the Golden Triangle. In a city not particularly known for cutting-edge architecture, the addition, designed by Daniel Libeskind, is a titanium-clad structure that juts from the ground in a riot of peaks and angles. 
 Better yet, the Museum Residences, a cool statement of steel and glass also designed by Mr. Libeskind, were rising next to the museum, with a wall of glass facing all of that shiny titanium.
One day last fall as the Horans were walking their dog downtown, they noticed that the residences had been put on the market. After a quick bite to eat, the couple went back -- on only the second day the sales office was open -- and bought an 1,100-square foot one-bedroom condominium. 
 ''The location and Libeskind were the things that really rung our bell,'' Mr. Horan, 55, said of their $600,000-plus purchase. 
 Raising the bar from simply living in a loft downtown, two projects here are combining residential space with art museums -- the Denver Museum of Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art, on the other side of downtown -- that are being built with bold architectural style.
 Despite an explosion of development downtown in recent years, there is still a demand for these higher-priced properties, as they have nearly sold out well before completion. (According to the Downtown Denver Partnership, there have been 13,760 residential units built in the city's center since 1990.)
 ''Nowhere else in Denver can you be part of history,'' said Cate Dobson, a real estate agent with Distinctive Properties, which is selling the Museum Residences. ''It's a new concept all over the world where people want to live in important architecture.'' 
 Ms. Dobson said buyers have included people with friends or family in Colorado but whose primary homes are in Belgium; San Francisco; Santa Fe, N.M.; and Washington, D.C. Others, like the Horans, are moving from the more traditional neighborhoods around Denver.
 When Mr. Libeskind, originally from Berlin, was selected by the Denver Art Museum to design its $90.5 million expansion in 2000, he was not particularly well known in the United States, and the Museum Residences were to be Studio Daniel Libeskind's first residential project in the United States. But in 2003, Mr. Libeskind was chosen to create the master plan for the World Trade Center site, and although that project has been stalled, it has catapulted him into the ranks of household-name architects.
 ''By the time they were actually offering these units, it was already known he was the World Trade Center guy,'' said Monty Cleworth, a 45-year-old investment consultant who bought one of the largest condos, at 2,800 square feet with 20-foot high ceilings, in large part because of Mr. Libeskind. ''When they chose him for the Denver Art Museum, he was not as well known. I heard him speak, and he was really fired up about Denver.''
 Indeed, Mr. Libeskind is enthusiastic about the potential he sees in Denver.
 ''I hope there will be more projects like this,'' Mr. Libeskind said in a telephone interview. ''What the public has done is brought culture and everyday life together in one space. It contributes to the economic growth and gives a new value to a city.''
 Lewis Sharp, director of the Denver Art Museum, said, ''One of the nice things in a city the size of Denver is we're small enough that we can make these things happen.'' (Although Mr. Libeskind designed the master plan for the museum addition and the residences, the two projects are separately financed.)
 The Golden Triangle, on the east end of downtown Denver near the gold-domed Capitol, is becoming the city's architectural core, with the public library designed by Michael Graves, the original Denver Art Museum building designed by the Italian architect Geo Ponti, and now Mr. Libeskind's geometric metallic museum addition. 
 Twelve of the 56 units at the Museum Residences are still available. They range from 756 to 2,200 square feet, and are priced at $342,000 to $1.25 million. (The highest-priced unit -- a 3,500-foot duplex -- was $2.7 million, and that has been sold.)
 ''When we first started to market it, we agonized a little bit over whether to use Daniel Libeskind in the marketing,'' said Glen Sibley, vice president of Corporex Colorado, co-developer of the Museum Residences, which cost $50 million. 
 The building will also include retail space, and the largest tenant so far is the Mizel Museum, which will open this fall with multicultural exhibits and educational programming about tolerance, diversity and human rights. 
 In addition to the Museum Residences, the site will also eventually include a 17-story residential tower that will be designed by Studio Daniel Libeskind. ''People are attracted to living in something designed by a world-class architect,'' Mr. Sibley said.
 On the west side of downtown, coal trains still rumble by and pedestrian bridges span the South Platte River and Cherry Creek, in the neighborhood known as LoDo, which is short for Lower Downtown Historic District. This is where most of the lofts have been built in recent years. 
 And this is also where the $18 million Art House project is going up around what will be the new Museum of Contemporary Art. Of the 13 units, priced at $795,000 to $1.625 million, only seven are left. David Adjaye of the London-based Adjaye Associates was chosen to design the museum's new 26,000-square-foot building. Mr. Adjaye is also designing a residence for the developer Mark Falcone on the site, and Studio Completiva of Denver did the master plan for the 1.37-acre site and has designed 12 town homes to complement the museum. 
 The Art House town homes will each have glass walls that will overlook a common pedestrian area that is just outside the museum. Each town house will also have a backyard and a rooftop garden or balcony. On the same site, the 69-unit Monarch Mills apartment building, which includes some affordable housing units, is nearly sold out. 
 Yong Cho and Catherine Mercer, the principal architects and owners of Studio Completiva, are planning to move from Boulder to Art House with their two young boys this year. ''Both of us grew up in New York City, and when we first moved to Denver, we moved to LoDo,'' Mr. Cho said. ''But basically when LoDo was developed it became an entertainment district, and that's not where we wanted to be. We grew tired of the noise and moved to Boulder. But we still missed the dense urban atmosphere.'' 
 Mr. Falcone, 42, chief executive of Continuum, the development company behind Art House, said: ''I think that what this demonstrates is that housing can be a wonderful tool to help enhance the urban character of our neighborhoods. And that's exciting in that it gives developers and builders the confidence to be more ambitious.''
 He also suggested that perhaps the residents might become loyal museum patrons. 
 Cydney Payton, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art, said, ''Resident members and potential donors sounds great to me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEING DEVELOPED -- Tom Horan bought a one-bedroom condo at the Museum Residences, which is being built next to a new addition to the Denver Museum of Art. A model of both is shown at right. The Art House town homes, below, are going up near what will be the new Museum of Contemporary Art. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Housing; Condominiums; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Art; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Denver Museum of Art; Museum of Contemporary Art (Denver, Colo)

PERSON: Mindy Sink; Daniel Libeskind

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (97%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (97%); BELGIUM (52%) Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



534 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Mental Health Therapists Face Financial Stress as Fees Stagnate

BYLINE: By COELI CARR

 BODY:
For more than three decades, Jessica Hinterman, a licensed clinical social worker who lives in Park Forest, a Chicago suburb, has had a fulfilling private practice, a part-time one so she could spend more time raising her children. But in 2005, she earned at least 10 percent less than the year before, while her practice-related expenses increased.
 Contributing to this shortfall in revenue was the fact that in November 2004, she had withdrawn from the provider list of the only health insurance company with which she had a contract. 
''When you are on a provider list, the insurance company decides what you should be charging,'' Ms. Hinterman said. Though her customary fee at the time was $90 an hour, she could charge only $68 to $72 for patients insured by the company she had contracted with. About two-thirds of her patients were insured by that company.
 ''I'd get a ceiling on what I was allowed to charge,'' she said, ''and that ceiling was unrealistically low.''
 Like many other health professionals, mental health practitioners like Ms. Hinterman say that they are feeling an economic pinch, partly because of insurance reimbursement schedules that they say have not kept pace with their expenses.
 Richard G. Frank, a health economist with a specialty in mental health issues who is a professor at Harvard, said: ''Clearly, the earnings of mental health professionals -- medical doctors, psychologists, social workers and counselors -- have either been flat or been declining for the past five to eight years.'' 
 ''It's not so much the number of visits allowed by managed care to mental health professionals has changed,'' he said. ''It's that fees paid to the mental health professionals have not been rising.''
 Mr. Frank, who is the co-author of ''Better but Not Well'' (Johns Hopkins Press, 2006), which examines United States mental health policies, cites efforts by insurance companies to keep costs down as well as changing treatment patterns, including the increasing use of drugs, rather than psychological therapy, to treat mental ailments. 
 Ms. Hinterman, too, observed that patients found prescription medicines a quicker fix than ''prolonged and thorough introspection.'' 
 ''We just live in a culture that values speed and efficiency and wants to see complex problems resolved in half an hour,'' she said. Given those changes, she no longer wants to rely on the profession she trained for as her sole source of income. 
 An experienced seamstress, in January 2004 she started Fiber Embellishments, a company that makes scarves, table linens, chefs' aprons and one-of-a-kind bags made of boiled wool; local retailers are already selling her goods. 
 Ms. Hinterman's concerns about earning a livelihood as a mental health professional are not isolated.
 ''A lot of people have taken a hit, there's no doubt about it,'' said Dava Weinstein, a licensed clinical social worker in private practice in Manhattan, who also teaches in the social work programs at Columbia University and Hunter College. 
 She also volunteers on a committee that deals with reimbursement issues for clinical social workers at the New York City chapter of the National Association of Social Workers. ''Some members have told me, 'I don't know how I'm going to pay my mortgage' and that they're struggling to pay bills,'' she said. 
 Among the top complaints from social workers about health insurers and the managed care industry are reduced fees, late payments and ''inappropriate assessment of the needs of patients.'' 
 Although the colleagues he has spoken with may not be leaving the profession yet, Paul C. Berman, a licensed psychologist in Baltimore who serves as professional affairs officer for Maryland's psychological association, said there were ''lots of gripes.'' 
 Many psychologists in private practice, he said, have said their fees have been reduced year after year, requiring them to work many more hours to maintain the same income.
 Mr. Berman said that when he went into private practice in 1990, participating in the provider networks of various health insurance companies, his maximum allowable hourly billing rate was $95, with about half of that paid by the insurance company and the rest by the patient. Today, he said, rates have plummeted to the point that the usual total reimbursement for psychologists is $65 to $75 an hour.
 This drop has forced many practitioners to nearly double their client load simply to maintain their income, he said. Not only are lower fees problematic, but there is also the issue of not being paid quickly by managed care companies, and often having to resubmit claims. The time required to complete paperwork is, of course, not billable.
 What Mr. Berman, who is no longer part of any insurance company's provider network, has done -- and what he encourages other psychologists and behavioral health care providers to consider -- is to diversify the practice.
 He now sees only a handful of therapy clients a week, at $95 for a 50-minute session, and earns his living predominantly ''outside the insurance reimbursement world,'' evaluating people on behalf of social service agencies, lawyers or the courts seeking expert opinions on mental fitness or in matters like custody hearings.
 Lynne Spevack, a licensed clinical social worker in full-time private practice in the Wall Street area and in Brooklyn, also advises her colleagues to be active in making changes. 
 She consults with other social workers on how to expand their practices and leads monthly meetings for the New York City chapter of the social workers' association on topics like practice-building and marketing. Among her suggestions to colleagues is taking speaking engagements to raise one's profile.
 Ms. Spevack said that even if the practitioner lowered the fee for someone paying out of pocket, the negotiated fee could still be higher than a managed care company would allow, and the practitioner would be ''free of the invasion of managed care, paperwork and other administrative burdens,'' she said. 
 ''We can learn to ethically sell ourselves. It's a skill set. There are no reasons people need to be leaving the profession.''
 Mr. Berman says he also sees more of his colleagues revamping how they work, often displaying an array of feelings ''similar to any life change,'' he said. 
 ''First, many practitioners thought managed care would die. ''Then there was outrage. Then resignation. Then they felt overwhelmed. Where we are now is taking a proactive stance so we can meet the needs of the changing marketplace and survive financially and professionally.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jessica Hinterman, a clinical social worker, augments her income as a seamstress. (Photo by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); MISC APPAREL & ACCESSORIES MFG (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



535 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-17

Protests Blocked in Belarus
Riot police dispersed a fresh challenge to President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, blocking thousands of antigovernment demonstrators from reaching the central square in the capital and later arresting a top opposition leader. 17

Iraqis Fear Cycle of Revenge
Hundreds of men, mostly Sunnis, have been kidnapped, tortured and executed in Baghdad over the past month, raising suspicions that they were killed by Shiite death squads backed by government forces in a cycle of sectarian revenge. 
 1

Iraqi politicians say they are considering asking the main Shiite political bloc to allow a vote by the entire Parliament on a candidate for prime minister. In the proposed plan, the Parliament would choose among three candidates, including the current prime minister, the politicians say. 6

Anti-Semitism Surges in France
The killing in February of a 23-year-old Jew in France has focused attention on growing anti-Semitism among the country's second-generation immigrant youth, whose high jobless rate the government is trying to address with a law that has drawn protests across the country. 12

Nigeria to Hand Over Dictator
Nigeria said it would end the asylum of the deposed Liberian dictator Charles G. Taylor, a warlord-turned-president who presided over a country shattered by civil war, and hand him over to the Liberian government for trial on war crimes charges. 11

U.S. and Russia at Odds on Iran
The Bush administration and Russia, struggling to forge a joint strategy on Iran, remain at odds over whether the United Nations Security Council should take a step toward imposing penalties on Iran by labeling its nuclear activities a threat to world peace, American and European officials say. 17

Long Effort to Wipe Out Worm
Guinea worm, a plague so ancient that it has been found in Egyptian mummies, is poised to become the first disease since smallpox to be eradicated. But tribal traditions in Nigeria have provided resistance in the effort's homestretch. 1

NATIONAL 18-26

Benefits From New Drug Plan
Medicare's satisfied customers, though they are not easy to find, say it was worth wading through the complexities of the new drug benefit program to enroll. In the Tulsa area, Republicans describe the drug benefit as a boon to older Americans, but many Democrats still call it a disaster. 1

Gunman Kills 6 in Seattle
A gunman fatally shot six people at a private house party in Seattle before committing suicide, in the worst mass murder in the city in more than two decades, the police said. 18

EDUCATION

Narrowing the Curriculum
Thousands of schools across the nation are responding to the reading and math testing requirements laid out in the No Child Left Behind Law, President Bush's signature education law, by reducing and, for some students, eliminating class time spent on other subjects. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 29-33

D'Amato Back in Politics
Years after leaving the Senate, Alfonse M. D'Amato has plunged back into New York Republican politics, publicly challenging the choices of the party establishment. 29

More Trains, Early and Late
The Metro-North Railroad plans to embark on the biggest addition to its service in 20 years, enabling customers to reach Manhattan earlier in the morning and return to the suburbs later at night. 29

OBITUARIES34-35

Buck Owens
The maverick singer who scored a string of country hits including ''Act Naturally'' before steering country music to television as the co-host of the series ''Hee Haw,'' he was 76. 34

Chess 33
Weather 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); TORTURE (77%); MEDICARE (76%); WAR CRIMES (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CURRICULA (72%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (62%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (62%); SMALLPOX (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%); SUICIDE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); NIGERIA (93%); BELARUS (92%); LIBERIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



536 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Calling Out Around the World March 19-25

 BODY:

ECUADOR

The News -- Indians protested free-trade talks with the United States, saying a deal would lead to a flood of agricultural imports that could wipe out small producers. 


Behind the News The government has been under pressure to negotiate an agreement because its two larger neighbors, Peru and Colombia, signed pacts with the United States in the past few months. Protests began in highlands provinces, where Indians blockaded roads, bringing commerce to a halt. But the government declared a state of emergency, and a threatened ''takeover'' of Quito fizzled.

FRANCE

The News -- Students and union members took to the streets in Paris and other cities seeking the withdrawal of a new labor law that allows companies to fire workers under age 26 without cause.

Behind the News -- The ''first employment contract'' law was designed to encourage more hiring of young people, a group with high unemployment. But opponents say it erodes job protections and makes young workers even more vulnerable. Faced with a threat of nationwide strikes next week, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin, who proposed the law on his own and forced it through the Legislature, discussed amending it to make it more palatable. Mr. de Villepin wants to run for president next year, and the law was a part of his effort to establish a presidential persona. But with the widespread protests, strong opposition within the National Assembly and defections among supporters within his own party, it may have backfired.

BELARUS

The News -- Supporters of opposition candidates demonstrated against the declared election victory of the incumbent president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko.

Behind the News -- Western governments and organizations have denounced last week's election as fraudulent, designed to keep the authoritarian Mr. Lukashenko in power. Mr. Lukashenko, who said he received more than 80 percent of the vote, was unapologetic and said he was unafraid of economic or political isolation. One reason for his defiance was that he still had Russia, long an ally, supporting him.

UNITED STATES

The News -- As the Iraq war entered its fourth year, protesters rallied against it in cities around the country.

Behind the News -- Although polls show opposition to the war is growing, the protests were generally smaller than on the first and second anniversaries of the war. For their part, President Bush and officials in his administration continued to take an optimistic view, saying their strategy was working. Mr. Bush said that by year's end Iraqi forces would control half the country, but also acknowledged that American soldiers would be there for years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Taking issue with trade talks in Quito. (Photo by Dolores Ochoa R./Associated Press)
Saying no to a new labor law, the brainchild of the prime minister, in Marseille. (Photo by Tschaen/Sipa)
Outrage from the opposition in Minsk. (Photo by Anatoly Maltsev/European Pressphoto Agency)
 A protest near the Pentagon in Virginia. (Photo by David Scull/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); STRIKES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); AGRICULTURE (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); IRAQ WAR (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); PERU (92%); IRAQ (92%); BELARUS (92%); ECUADOR (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



537 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
THOMPSON, JANA D.

 BODY:
 THOMPSON--Jana D. Jana D'Aun Thompson, president of Laudus Funds in San Francisco, died March 17 in her home surrounded by family and friends following an eight month battle with pancreatic cancer. She had turned 47 ten days earlier. Ms. 
Thompson, a native of Arlington, Texas, headed management of Charles Schwab's Laudus Funds. She joined Schwab in August 2000. Previously, Ms. Thompson cofounded the High Yield Group at Fleet Securities in New York City after serving as head of High Yield Sales for Citicorp. She spent most of her career on Wall Street with Lehman Brothers where she specialized in High Yield, Distressed and Emerging investment markets. Ms. Thompson graduated from Lamar High School in Arlington, Texas. She earned a B.A. in International Economics from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., and an MBA in Finance from Columbia University in New York City. Ms. Thompson had a passionate interest in art, music, dance, sports and the community. She had served on the Board of Directors of ODC/Dance (Oberlin Dance Company) in San Francisco, and generously supported Doctors Without Borders, Emily's List, Planned Parenthood, the Women's Initiative for Self Employment (WISE), the Brent Woodall Foundation for Exceptional Children, Stern Grove Festival, San Francisco Ballet, Friends of Mountain Lake Park and a variety of emerging artists. A cycling enthusiast, she completed the 100-mile America's Most Beautiful Ride in 2004. She is survived by her partner Michael D. Browne and his children, Michael and Catherine, of New York City; her mother Janice D. Thompson, her father and stepmother Dr. Gerald G. Thompson and Linda Thompson, her brother Ken Thompson, his wife JoLee and their children Tori, Trace, Tanner and Tucker, her grandmother Dorothy Thompson, all of Arlington, Texas; her brother Kevin Thompson, his wife Patti and their children Meghan and Hank of Dallas, Texas; her sister Kelly Weeks, her husband David and their children Dylan and Zachary of Huntsville, Texas, and her extended family of treasured friends. The Jana D. Thompson Fund, an annual award to assist worthy students to study abroad, has been established at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be made to the Fund. Checks should be made payable to the School of Foreign Service (memo line: Jana D. Thompson Fund) and mailed to: School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 301 ICC, Washington, DC 20057. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CANCER (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (74%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (74%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); MUSIC (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (55%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



538 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2121 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: March 26, 2006

 BODY:
New York Times Bestsellers (hardcover) 

FICTION
1 THE 5TH HORSEMAN, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women's Murder Club investigate unexplained deaths at a San Francisco hospital.
2 THE TENTH CIRCLE, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $26.) When his teenage daughter is date-raped, a comic-book artist is overwhelmed by rage he thought he had buried with his past.
3 THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.
4 THE HOUSE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) A workaholic lawyer's life changes when she buys a crumbling mansion.
5 CELL, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.95.) What remains of humanity fights to survive after a mysterious force scrambles cellphone users' brains.
6 THE TEMPLAR LEGACY, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A former Justice Department operative becomes involved in a desperate search for the long-lost treasure and secrets of the medieval Knights Templar.
7 THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.
8 FALSE IMPRESSION, by Jeffrey Archer. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) A murderous international conspiracy swirls around a stolen Van Gogh.
9 IN THE COMPANY OF THE COURTESAN, by Sarah Dunant. (Random House, $23.95.) A courtesan and her pimp, a dwarf, make their way in Renaissance Venice.
10 NIGHTLIFE, by Thomas Perry. (Random House, $24.95.) A woman detective in Portland, Ore., hunts a woman serial killer.
11 THE REBELS OF IRELAND, by Edward Rutherfurd. (Doubleday, $28.95.) A story of six families against the sweep of Irish history from 1597 to 1922.
12 LABYRINTH, by Kate Mosse. (Putnam, $25.95.) A woman on an archaeological dig in France stumbles on the 13th-century secret of the true Grail.
13 THE TWO MINUTE RULE, by Robert Crais. (Simon & Schuster, $24.95.) A robber just released from prison tracks down the killers of his son, a Los Angeles cop.
14 KILL ME, by Stephen White. (Dutton, $25.95.) A businessman signs a contract to end his own life.
15 SEA CHANGE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., searches for the killer of a woman whose body washed ashore.
16 THE OLD WINE SHADES, by Martha Grimes. (Viking, $25.95.) Richard Jury of New Scotland Yard investigates a disappearance that involves a murder.
NONFICTION
1 MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.
2 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.
3 FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.
4 YOU'RE WEARING THAT?, by Deborah Tannen. (Random House, $24.95.) How mothers and daughters communicate.
5 BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.
6 MANHUNT, by James L. Swanson. (Morrow, $26.95.) The 12-day pursuit of John Wilkes Booth after his assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
7 THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.
8 LEFT TO TELL, by Immaculee Ilibagiza with Steve Erwin. (Hay House, $24.95.) How a woman found God after surviving the Rwandan genocide.
9 MISQUOTING JESUS, by Bart D. Ehrman. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) How mistakes and changes by ancient scribes shaped the Bible we use today.
10 THE BROTHERS BULGER, by Howie Carr. (Warner, $25.95.) The story of two Massachusetts brothers, one a criminal, the other a politician.
11 TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''
12 TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.
13 BEYOND BAND OF BROTHERS, by Dick Winters with Cole C. Kingseed. (Berkley Caliber, $24.95.) The war memoirs of the commander of Easy Company, made famous by Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers.''
14 THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. (Viking, $25.95.) A former mountain climber builds schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
15 EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Viking, $24.95.) A writer's yearlong journey in search of self takes her to Italy, India and Indonesia.
16 CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.


Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 11, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

AMERICAN THEOCRACY: The Peril and Politics of Radical Religion, Oil, and Borrowed Money in the 21st Century, by Kevin Phillips. (Viking, $26.95.) A former Republican strategist warns of growing danger under the conservative coalition.
THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN: Why the West's Efforts to Aid the Rest Have Done So Much Ill and So Little Good, by William Easterly. (Penguin, $27.95.) Why do Western aid programs so often fail? It's not because of too little money spent, a former World Bank economist argues.
SOUND AND FURY: Two Powerful Lives, One Fateful Friendship, by Dave Kindred. (Free Press, $27.) A dual biography of Muhammad Ali and Howard Cosell, the oddest couple in sports, written with admiration and honesty.
FREEDOM RIDERS: 1961 and the Struggle for Racial Justice, by Raymond Arsenault. (Oxford University, $32.50.) Men and women who risked their lives to desegregate interstate bus travel. 
A MILLION NIGHTINGALES, by Susan Straight. (Pantheon, $24.95.) A beautiful novel about a Louisiana slave girl and her female mentors.
THE WORLD TO COME, by Dara Horn. (Norton, $24.95.) Through the many lives touched by a stolen Chagall, this rich novel explores adolescent trials, adult betrayal and the nature of art.
PASSAROLA RISING, by Azhar Abidi. (Viking, $21.95.) In this colorful picaresque fantasy, two brothers in 18th-century Portugal fly an airship to visit Voltaire, Louis XV and the North Pole. 
BECOMING ABIGAIL: A Novella, by Chris Abani. (Akashic, paper, $11.95.) The harrowing tale of a Nigerian girl forced into sexual slavery in London.
THE DOCTOR'S DAUGHTER, by Hilma Wolitzer. (Ballantine, $24.95.) At 51, a frustrated writer comes of age. Perhaps Wolitzer's best novel yet. 
THE CALIPH'S HOUSE, by Tahir Shah. (Bantam, $22.) A travel writer's account of restoring a crumbling mansion in a Casablanca slum.
ARE YOU HAPPY? A Childhood Remembered, by Emily Fox Gordon. (Riverhead, $23.95.) A bullying father, a distant mother, yet Gordon was happy. 
The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); CONSPIRACY (72%); HISTORY (71%); ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); POLICE FORCES (63%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); STEPHEN KING (78%); JAMES PATTERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (68%) OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%); IRELAND (53%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



539 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Classical, Now Without The 300-Year Delay

BYLINE: By BARBARA JEPSON

 BODY:
REMEMBER that Mozart concert you wanted to get to last month? No, not that one. (Or that one. Or those other 10 or 12.) The one with Lorin Maazel conducting the New York Philharmonic in the last three symphonies at Avery Fisher Hall.
 Well, that concert will come to you in high-quality sound on Tuesday, when DG Concerts offers it for digital downloading via the iTunes Music Store (itunes.com). What's more, two programs from the Los Angeles Philharmonic's hip ''Minimalist Jukebox'' series, performed this weekend, are scheduled for release through DG Concerts and iTunes on April 4. Although pricing is not final, each live concert will probably cost about $10 to download, less for complete individual works.
 Both orchestras are part of a new initiative by the Universal Music Group built on its Deutsche Grammophon and Decca labels. Christopher Roberts, president for classics and jazz for Universal Music Group International, says that DG Concerts and Decca Concerts will, between them, ultimately service about 10 orchestras in the United States and abroad. Negotiations are under way with orchestras in London, Paris and three German cities. The current intention is for each orchestra to offer, on average, four concerts a season for digital downloading, and one of the four would also be released on CD. 
 The project reflects a seismic shift in the way music is being discovered, distributed and heard. In 2005, Nielsen SoundScan reports, sales of digital tracks for downloading to computers or portable music players soared to 353 million units in the United States, up 150 percent from 2004. Downloads of digital albums increased 194 percent, to 16 million. Although classical labels arrived late to the party, they, too, are experiencing growth in this area. While sales of classical CD's in the United States decreased by 15 percent last year, SoundScan reports, digital downloads of classical albums grew by 94 percent. More significant, several labels are finding that the classical share of the download music business is about 7 percent, more than twice the share in physical retail outlets. 
 For the classical music industry, weary of alarmist talk about the graying of its audience, the demographics are promising. ''Ownership of portable music players is generally highest among those from age 15 to their mid-40's,'' said Ted Schadler, an industry analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. But, he added, 84 percent of young online consumers listen to music on their PC's. 
 Probably few of them are grooving to Chopin or Brahms, but the 1.4 million downloads of free Beethoven symphonies offered by BBC Radio 3 last June proved that audiences for classical music might be larger than anyone thought. There is no guarantee that the digital revolution will bring a new generation of iPod-toting listeners into concert halls, transforming classical music institutions in the process. But the trend has brought a glimmer of hope to the classical record industry, still grappling with the impact of a shakeout that began a decade ago. 
 Digital jukeboxes like iTunes or subscription services like eMusic (emusic.com) treat classical albums as just another genre, as easy to explore as alternative or world music. ''It's an opportunity to demystify the classics for the causal buyer,'' said Tom Evered, general manager of EMI Jazz and Classics in the United States. A prime attraction of download music stores is the potential purchaser's ability to listen to free excerpts before buying. In the rock arena, this practice has reportedly hurt sales in traditional retail outlets. But in the classical market, more concerned with sound quality, some labels are finding the opposite. ''So far, downloading is not cannibalizing our sales of physical CD's,'' said Chaz Jenkins, the head of LSO Live, the small in-house label of the London Symphony Orchestra, which derived 31 percent of its sales in the United States from digital music last year. ''What we're seeing is that new releases on CD do better when there's also availability on digital music services.'' 
 Not since the advent of the CD two decades ago have record companies had the opportunity to reissue great quantities of their products. ''What I can do now is use our library of over 85,000 tracks in proprietary collections,'' said Jim Sturgeon, the chief executive of Naxos of America, a leading distributor of independent labels, whose total sales through digital service providers were 8 percent of its total sales in 2005 and are projected to reach 13 percent this year. 
 And since no physical store can stock entire catalogs, digital music providers offer advantages to classical labels, whose products typically sell slowly over the long term. Last year, to celebrate the 80th birthday of Pierre Boulez, Deutsche Grammophon resurrected nearly a dozen of his out-of-print albums for download only and produced a special compilation showcasing him as conductor and composer. This summer, EMI will offer its entire collection of operas and recital programs by the legendary soprano Maria Callas for download. 
 The possibilities are exciting. So is the coming entry of potential rivals to iTunes, which now dominates the digital music delivery business. In collaboration with Microsoft, MTV Networks will unveil Urge, its own digital music service, this spring. Urge will feature multiple genres, strong visual elements and special programming and promotion in conjunction with the network's popular MTV, VH1 and CMT channels, said by the network to reach more than 165 million viewers in the United States. ''We're going to give classical as much love as we give hip-hop or pop,'' said Michael Bloom, MTV Networks' vice president for digital music. 
 The digital marketplace is also stimulating fresh approaches by more traditional music institutions. The New York Philharmonic, in its three-year project with DG Concerts, is taking a financial gamble in the hope of reaching a worldwide audience. As part of the contract, the Philharmonic members chose a percentage of royalties rather than their usual flat fee up front. The recordings remain the property of the Philharmonic, which has licensed them to Deutsche Grammophon.
 ''For us, it's all about getting a foothold in the new media,'' said the violinist Fiona Simon, the chairwoman of the orchestra committee that helped negotiate the deal. ''Downloading is probably the way that classical music is going to be distributed in the future. The CD isn't dead yet, but it's fading.'' 
 By servicing orchestras that already have their concerts broadcast on radio, Deutsche Grammophon and Decca avoid studio session costs, which run between $100,000 and $250,000 for major orchestras. The orchestras involved in the Universal initiative will provide the record companies with edited tape. The labels will do the mastering, prepare the tape for downloading, supply artwork and liner notes to the digital music services, and handle promotion costs. 
 The New York Philharmonic and the Los Angeles Philharmonic have each identified candidates for the remaining downloads this spring, but digital technology enables them to be spontaneous. A particularly memorable live concert can be edited, mastered and uploaded on a digital jukebox in two to six weeks. 
 In this fashion, Roberto Sierra's Symphony No. 3 (''La Salsa'') was made available for download from iTunes soon after its premiere last fall by the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra. With minimal publicity, 274 tracks from the work on MSO Live, the orchestra's own label, were sold in the United States, Britain and Australia during a two-month period.
 ''This brings new music that might have otherwise taken years to go into the CD format to a wider public,'' Mr. Sierra said. 
 But nirvana may not have arrived just yet. Digital downloads still account for only 6 percent of the overall music market. And sound quality remains an issue. ''Lossless'' technology, still in the wings, is expected to improve the quality of the download itself. Unfortunately, it will require faster Internet connections and download times longer than the two minutes or so it now takes for a symphony. And the sound will still be more compressed than that of a CD, let alone a Super Audio CD. 
 ''The audiophiles are probably never going to be happy with digital download sound,'' Mr. Evered of EMI said.
 But Alexandre Vovan, the director of sales and communications for the independent Canadian label Analekta, disagreed. ''If classical music listeners have been satisfied for years with the CD,'' he said, ''then they will be more than satisfied with the newer breeds of MP3 or its successors in the near future.''
 If he is right, technology could again transform the record industry. Downloading got off to a rocky start because of illegal file-sharing, and the industry is still suffering the consequences. But legal alternatives offer a second chance. 
 ''What happened with illegal file-sharing,'' Mr. Sturgeon of Naxos explained, ''is that the music industry basically said: 'We don't know how to stop it. Let's figure out a way to sue them.' Instead of saying: 'O.K., people like this approach. Let's monetize it, find a way to make it legal.' Run towards it, don't run away from it.'' 
 And ''run'' may be the operative word. ''What we're trying to do is stay ahead of the times,'' said Deborah Borda, the president of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. ''Or at the very least, be with them.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by John Hersey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MUSIC STORES (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (61%) Music; Classical Music; Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Philharmonic; Los Angeles Philharmonic; Universal Music Group

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Barbara Jepson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (76%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



540 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Cellphones in Flight? This Means War!

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
JOHN BELL HOOD may well have been the most destructive American of all time. He was a Confederate general of undisputed courage and daring, but dazzlingly little strategic or tactical wisdom. (''All lion and no fox,'' said Robert E. Lee about this horrifyingly misguided soul when it was really too late to do much about it.) 
 Among his many other misdeeds, he ordered the assault on virtually impregnable Union positions in Franklin, Tenn., in November 1864. That led to far more casualties than Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg and accomplished absolutely zero for his side, because the Union was about to evacuate its positions anyway. It led, in a way, to the absolute dissolution of the Army of Tennessee, an irretrievable disaster for the ''lost cause.'' 
(By the way, he's ''the gallant Hood of Texas'' referred to in the fourth stanza of ''The Yellow Rose of Texas,'' added as the Civil War was ending -- if anyone remembers that song.)
 This comes to mind because I believe that an award in General Hood's honor should be created for the most disastrous government decision of the year, or of the decade. Now, some may say the award should go to George W. Bush for deciding to invade Iraq, but the jury is still out on that, and in any event, at the time it seemed a good idea to people much smarter than I am.
 But there is a decision pending within the bowels of the federal government that may be the single most incomprehensibly wrongheaded decision of the century. It's small when compared with Iraq, but it's still maddening. It involves allowing passengers to talk on their cellphones while they are in flight.
 Now, as everyone who has the misfortune to fly commercially knows, air travel today is mind-bogglingly uncomfortable. The seats are small. The flights are nearly always full to overflowing. The food is unspeakable. The air is fetid and filled with germs. Many a time I board an airliner hale and hearty, only to emerge with a raging pneumonia.
 But there is one saving grace. Unless you are seated behind or next to really rude people -- which happens surprisingly rarely -- air travel is fairly quiet. Yes, the flight attendants stand around and talk. Yes, before the plane takes off people scream into their cellphones, but along about three hours into the flight from, say, Kennedy to LAX, it's pretty peaceful.
 That's solely because passengers can't use cellphones aloft. That prohibition was one of the great decisions ever. Now, in a fit of idiocy, some airlines are suggesting that they be allowed to sell the use of cellphones in the air at nominal prices. This will mean yelling and screaming and boasting and complaining for almost all the time you're sealed in that sardine can. The government is apparently planning to allow this anarchy.
 Why? Well, for a long time, cellphone use was barred because safety experts worried they had the ''potential'' to interfere with navigation systems or cellphones on the ground -- concerns that now, apparently because of technological advances, they no longer have. (The real reason for the ban, as I am told by airline personnel in secret, is that cellphone screeching made many passengers so crazy that flight attendants feared incidents of air rage.) 
 The ban worked well. Now, in the rush to mine every penny they can from passengers, airlines plan to jettison that old excuse and, when planes are above 10,000 feet, let people holler into their cellphones, or maybe it will be the airlines' cellphones. 
 This is rank madness. It will make most of us hide by listening to deafening music. (I recommend the live concert version of ''Idiot Wind'' on the ''Hard Rain'' disc of the immortal Bob Dylan to drown out the idiot winds of the people around you.) It will make us retaliate by talking into our own cellphones. It will take what could have been a bearable experience and turn it into hell.
 Why would the government, already reeling from criticism about Iraq and Katrina and the deficits, now make a decision that has absolutely no merit? If the airlines are that needy, let's bring back the Civil Aeronautics Board and allow the government to set prices again. Let's allow a $10-a-passenger surcharge to pay the airlines for silence. But please, Mr. Bush, don't let me be seated next to a man who talks on the phone for an hour, telling his mother what he just bought that day at Costco. Please don't make me sit next to a woman fighting with her boyfriend or a salesman speed-dialing his entire prospect list for concrete blocks. 
 It is bad enough to allow cellphone use in a confined space anywhere. But on an airplane flight? No. Some planes already allow use of built-in telephones, but those are so hard to use, so amazingly costly, that they might as well not be there. Virtually unlimited cellphone use in the air will turn a swamp into Armageddon. 
 Please, Mr. Bush, step into this one and just say no to turning airplanes into penal colonies. It is only a matter of time before someone gets killed over this, and I don't want it to be on my flight. Let's not make us think about John Bell Hood.
 ON another matter, some kindly readers complained that my recent list of high-dividend-paying stocks -- the DeMuth 7 Percent Solution -- contained some that returned principal and some that, in the same vein, paid out more than they earned (although this is tricky with real estate investment trusts because of depreciation issues that may not be realistic in terms of income). So I sent Phil DeMuth back to the drawing board. Here is a revised diversified portfolio of 10 stocks (each with a payout ratio less than 100 percent), along with their dividend yields..

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT -- Allied Capital, 7.8 percent.

REIT'S -- Bedford Property Investors, 7.5; Crescent Real Estate Equities, 7.1; One Liberty Properties, 6.8; National Health Investors, 7.4.

PRINTING -- Deluxe, 6.8.

MINING -- Great Northern Iron Ore Properties, 6.0.

PIPELINES -- Magellan Midstream Partners, 6.9.

CHEMICALS -- NL Industries, 4.7.

RETAILING -- Tuesday Morning, 6.6.
 Live it up.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); AIRLINES (88%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Cellular Telephones

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



541 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: BORROWING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: The Construction Loan as an Owner's Safety Valve

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRARO

 BODY:
WITH three children and large extended families, Alisha and Sudhir Karandikar thought that their 1,800-square-foot house in San Jose, Calif., was too small. ''For holidays, we really need a formal dining room,'' Mrs. Karandikar, 35, said.
 The solution took them well beyond an addition; they are building a 3,200-square-foot house from the old structure, with dining and family rooms, six bedrooms, three baths and a new kitchen, roof, facade, heating and plumbing. ''It's like a tear-down, but we're still sleeping in it,'' Mrs. Karandikar said by telephone as workers clattered around her.
To finance the project, the Karandikars -- she is a full-time real estate agent, and he is a high school math teacher and also an agent, part time -- got a $450,000 construction loan from First Horizon, a home loan lender, which also took over the couple's existing mortgage. When the house is done, the total loan will be $1.2 million. 
 Interest on the final loan, to be closed when the house is finished, will be ''a half point or a point over the going rate at the time,'' said Mr. Karandikar, who estimates monthly loan payments of $6,650. ''We will do an interest-only mortgage for five years,'' he said, ''but it will be refinanced into a traditional 30-year fixed-rate mortgage before five years.''
 Of the loan package, Mrs. Karandikar said that $30,000 was a bank origination fee and that $70,000 was for interest during construction. The bank fee was high, she said, because of the size and duration of the loan, and they had to establish a $100,000 cash reserve to pay upfront for items to be reimbursed later from the loan.
 But obtaining the loan took only 12 days, and the Karandikars wanted to get started. ''We are happy with this,'' she said.
 A dream for many Americans, or a sudden challenge for those who found themselves in the path of a hurricane last year, building a house is expensive. Most people have to borrow, but even if they are flush -- millionaires, or couples who have sold a house and want to reinvest -- they may still want to avail themselves of a construction loan. It's an effective way to enlist the financial expertise of a banker. 
 ''You could hire your own inspector, escrow agent or real estate attorney who might help with disbursement of funds,'' Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com, which tracks banking data, said. But, he said, ''the whole process of building a house is not a battle you want to do on your own.'' 
 James Fraser, president of home construction lending at IndyMac Bank, based in Pasadena, Calif., says banks exert ''controls that come with getting construction funding and help you, as a lay person, not get ripped off'' by opportunistic contractors. In protecting its own investment, the bank would argue, it is protecting the owner. 
 The process starts with the application. At Merrill Lynch, ''we ask that we be involved to approve plans and approve the builder,'' said Mike Young, vice president and product manager for all mortgage products. ''We need plans and specs, the property address, the builder's information showing they have the wherewithal to get you through and that they are reputable.''
 If owners don't know the fluctuating costs of lumber or concrete -- Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Fraser said, has had a ''huge effect on the cost of building materials'' -- good lenders should, and they can evaluate a contractor's estimates. 
 ''A construction lender looks at costs at a per-square-foot basis all over the country,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''We can be more realistic about how much it will really cost and how long it will take. We look at your cash reserves, ask if the loan contingency is big enough to cover potential overruns that we see as likely.''
 Before closing on the loan, lenders may require contractors to have building permits in hand. ''Most construction loans have a fixed term,'' said Peter L. Konkowski, a vice president and senior loan officer at IndyMac. ''You don't want to be waiting for a building permit while the clock is ticking.''
 Once work begins, banks send inspectors to the site before authorizing payment. ''Bricks on a pallet we don't fund -- they aren't real estate yet,'' said Peter F. Makowiecki, president and chief executive of First Horizon. ''When they are on the building, then it becomes real estate.''
 Ideally, the bank helps control the flow of money from the owner to the contractor. ''You don't want to be in a situation where the builder has drawn down 80 percent of the funds and only 25 percent of the work has been done,'' Mr. Makowiecki said. 
 The disadvantages of construction loans are obvious. Borrowed money costs money. Owners must accept the bank's rules. The application process is tedious; bank forms are not standardized. If the project runs late, owners face more paperwork and additional fees. 
 Even the tax deduction can wither in hot markets. The deductible amount ''has a limit of $1.1 million: a million on the first mortgage and $100,000 on the second,'' Doron Hershkovitz, an accountant in Great Neck, N.Y., said. 
 On the other hand, he added, ''it's a great idea to take out a mortgage, especially since you're going to do it anyway.'' One reason is that the vast array of loans and various options on interest rates may allow borrowers to determine a down payment that does not deplete their cash.
 Traditional construction loans are usually retired by permanent home mortgages -- two loans, two sets of closing costs. A relatively new option is a single construction-to-permanent loan that rolls over into a long-term mortgage. 
 There are wrinkles, especially when the market is strong. A property's value may increase during the construction period and lead to better terms for the permanent mortgage. ''We allow the customer to go off the appraised final value, not the cost of construction,'' Mark Goodwin, a vice president in Southlake, Tex., for First Horizon, said. Such an appraisal may show that the buyer has already enjoyed an increase in equity. 
 ''So, a lot of times,'' Mr. Goodwin said, ''you get equity built in, based on the appraisal, and the customer can roll in the closing costs, the cost to build and the estimated interim interest so that, depending on the appraisal, the loan may come with little or no down payment.''
 In Duluth, Ga., Sherry Buck hopes for that kind of edge on the permanent mortgage she will have on a 1,400-square-foot lakeside home that she and her husband, Bernie, are building in Townville, S.C. ''We're certainly not millionaires,'' said Mrs. Buck, 61. ''We need flexibility.''
 The couple have a construction loan from IndyMac of $359,650 at 7 percent (interest applied as the money is disbursed). ''We will have the property reappraised right before closing, because it should go up,'' she said, and that may lower the permanent mortgage costs. 
 The loan also included a contingency reserve of 5 percent, to be used for any cost overruns. ''In a mortgage, nobody's giving anything away,'' Mrs. Buck, a Brooklyn native, said. ''And I really liked the contingency allowance because in building, how do you know? Anything can happen.'' 
 The brisk business in construction loans is also connected to the many types of mortgages now available. The decision about which mortgage is best usually depends on careers and personal plans, said Anthony Ciochetti, a professor at the M.I.T. Real Estate Center in Cambridge, Mass. If the borrowers plan to move in a few years, the initial low rates on adjustable-rate mortgages may seem appealing; if they intend to stay put, they may prefer the security of fixed rates.
 MIDDLE-AGED homeowners tend toward caution, said Allen Fishbein, director for housing and credit at the Consumer Federation of America in Washington. They often see homes primarily as dwellings that may return gains over time through growing equity.
 Younger homeowners, on the other hand, may know only hot markets in which appraised values double every few years. More than ever, today's young buyers appear remarkably comfortable with risk, he said, though it remains unclear whether their attitude shows a real change in the market or an anomaly. 
 In Tiburon, Calif., just north of San Francisco, Abraham Valentino, 47, moves with ease through construction loan and mortgage options. He recently finished building a 5,800-square-foot house in the hills, relying in part on a $4 million construction loan from First Horizon.
 But for his permanent mortgage, he went to CountryWide Bank because the rates were more attractive. And he is already building another house, ''just down the street,'' with even better views, with a loan from the Bank of Marin: it was willing, and he had to act fast. ''Having real estate is a good investment,'' Mr. Valentino said.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the mechanics of construction loans referred incorrectly to the office location of Doron Hershkovitz, an accountant who described limits on mortgage tax deductions. It is Queens, not Great Neck, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alisha and Sudhir Karandikar, with a son, Riley Sullberg, 12. The couple took out a loan to renovate their home in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (72%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%) Housing; Mortgages; Building (Construction)

PERSON: Susan Ferraro

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



542 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5503 words

HEADLINE: Retraining, But for What?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Layoffs have disrupted the lives of millions of Americans over the last 25 years. The cure that these displaced workers are offered -- retraining and more education -- is heralded as a sure path to new and better-paying careers. But often that policy prescription does not work, as this book excerpt explains. It is adapted from ''The Disposable American: Layoffs and Their Consequences'' by Louis Uchitelle, an economics writer for The New York Times. Knopf will publish the book on Tuesday.
 JO GOODRUM, a thin, energetic woman older than her audience of aircraft mechanics -- old enough, perhaps, to be their mother -- got their attention with a single, unexpected sentence, which she inserted early in her presentation. Her husband, she said, had been laid off six times since the late 1980's. And yet here she was, standing before them, in one piece, cheerful, apparently O.K., giving survival instructions to the mechanics, who would be laid off themselves in 10 days. 
They were, in nearly every case, family men in their 30's and 40's who had worked for United Airlines since the mid-1990's. Summoned by their union, they had gathered in the carpeted conference room at the Days Inn next to Indianapolis International Airport, not far from United's giant maintenance center, a building so big that 12 airliners could be overhauled in it simultaneously. That no longer happened. Most of the repair bays were empty. The airline was cutting back operations, and the 60 mechanics at the meeting were in the fourth group to be let go.
 Confrontation had brought on the layoffs. Influenced by militants in their union local, Hoosier Air Transport Lodge 2294 of the International Association of Machinists, the 2,000 mechanics at the center had engaged in a work slowdown for many months, and then a refusal to work overtime. But rather than give ground, United responded by outsourcing, sending planes to nonunion contractors elsewhere in the country.
 That scared the mechanics. They quieted down and, in effect, authorized the leaders of Lodge 2294 to make peace. Their hope was that if they cooperated, United would ease up on the layoffs and revive operations at, arguably, one of the most efficient, high-tech maintenance centers in the world. In this state of mind, the union was helping to usher the 60 laid-off mechanics quietly away. It had rented the conference room on this cold January evening in 2003 to introduce the men to what amounted to a boot camp for recycling laid-off workers back into new, usually lower-paying lines of work.
 SIMILAR federally subsidized boot camps, organized by state and local governments, often in league with unions, have proliferated in the United States since the 1980's, and now many cities have them. Unable to stop layoffs, government has taken on the task of refitting discarded workers for ''alternate careers.'' In deciding as a nation to try to rejuvenate them as workers, we put in place a system, however unrealistic, that implicitly acknowledged layoffs as a legitimate practice. 
 The presumption -- promoted by economists, educators, business executives and nearly all of the nation's political leaders, Democrats and Republicans alike -- holds that in America's vibrant and flexible economy there is work, at good pay, for the educated and skilled. The unemployed need only to get themselves educated and skilled and the work will materialize. Education and training create the jobs, according to this way of thinking. Or, put another way, an appropriate job at decent pay materializes for every trained or educated worker.
 If the workers were already trained, as the mechanics certainly were, then what they needed was additional training and counseling as a transition into well-paying, unfilled jobs in other industries. If the transition failed to function as advertised, well, the accepted wisdom suggested that it was the fault of the workers themselves. Their failure to land good jobs was due to personality defects or a resistance to acquiring new skills or a reluctance to move where the good jobs were.
 That was the myth. It evaporated in practice for the aircraft mechanics, whose hourly pay ranged up to $31. Not enough job openings exist at $31 an hour -- or at $16 an hour, for that matter -- to meet the demand for them. Jobs don't just materialize at cost-conscious companies to absorb all the qualified people who want them. 
 You cannot be an engineer or an accountant without a degree; in that sense, education and training certainly do count. Furthermore, in the competition for the jobs that exist, the educated and trained have an edge. That advantage shows up regularly in wage comparisons. But you cannot earn an engineer's or an accountant's typical pay if companies are not hiring engineers and accountants, or are hiring relatively few and can control the wage, chipping away at it.
 For the mechanics at the Days Inn, the retraining process would begin in a few days with workshops in resume writing and interviewing skills, personality evaluations and job counseling -- and, for a lucky few, tuition grants to go back to school. The mechanics were being ''counseled out'' of their well-paying trade, as some of them wryly put it, and Mrs. Goodrum was the lead-off speaker in this endeavor.
 She presented herself as one of them. Her husband's wage slid from $25 an hour in his heyday as a factory worker in the 1980's to $10 an hour in his latest job in a watch store. To supplement that falling income, she had taken part-time work as an ''education presenter'' for the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Central Indiana. 
 In this capacity, it was her task to explain how easy it would be for the departing mechanics -- separated from salaries of $55,000 a year and up -- to sink deeply into debt. The glimpse that she offered of her husband's downfall suggested that she had learned these lessons herself.
 Distinguish, she said, between needs and wants. Rent, food, insurance premiums -- those are needs. Cable television is a want; cancel it. Day care can be a want or a need. It's a need for parents with jobs, but a want for the soon-to-be-laid-off mechanics who would now have more time to watch their children themselves.
 In the blue-collar world, aircraft mechanics are at the top, and these were painful economies for them. They are the highly skilled people who repair and overhaul the nation's airliners. Each mechanic in the room had completed two years of collegelike schooling to qualify for the exacting task of dismantling and rebuilding airliners every five years, the work carried out at the maintenance center. Several compared their role proudly to that of a pilot, claiming as much credit as the pilots for the safety of air travel.
 Now they were falling out of this high-level world, in most cases for good. They were unlikely to match or come close in their next jobs to the level of pay that would soon cease. They would be newcomers again in the work force. They must learn how to get a foot in the door, the speakers that evening unceremoniously told them. Their careers were gone, and the grief at this loss must be absorbed in order to move on.
 Recognizing their vulnerability, Mrs. Goodrum spoke to the mechanics in the simplified, encouraging language that a skilled teacher uses to instruct children who are just learning to read, or that a speech therapist adopts to guide stroke victims struggling to speak again. Did the mechanics realize, she said, that credit card companies and mortgage lenders give special consideration to laid-off workers? She held up a ''sample letter to a creditor'' in which the writer announces his layoff, says he expects to be working again in three months and proposes to reduce his payments in the meantime. ''It is very important that you negotiate now,'' she said, ''and not when you are 60 days behind on a debt.''
 When Mrs. Goodrum had finished outlining in step-by-step detail the various survival strategies, Ben Nunnally, then 44 and the president of Lodge 2294, rose and without moving from behind the head table inserted into the proceedings some impromptu advice of his own, exercising his authority one last time as their union leader. While he had the mechanics in one room, Mr. Nunnally said, he wanted to caution them about the unemployment checks they would soon be getting. If they did not file promptly on Jan. 25, their last day, they could waste two weeks in collecting the first check.
 Even if the unemployment pay arrived on time, it would be little enough: $336 a week for 26 weeks, way below the nearly $1,100 a week or so that the mechanics had been earning at United. Mr. Nunnally, however, made no mention of either amount. ''We have no choice but to offer as little conflict as possible with United and hope that will avoid more layoffs,'' he said afterward.
 It was a wasted hope. Three months later, in April 2003, United abruptly laid off the 1,100 remaining mechanics, including Mr. Nunnally. On May 4, it said it would abandon the maintenance center completely. Outsourcing had won, hands down, and although Mr. Nunnally stayed on as the president of the much-diminished union local, he, too, applied for unemployment pay.
 Mr. Nunnally had experienced the center's glory days. He joined United in 1989 as a 30-year-old mechanic in San Francisco and transferred to Indianapolis in 1994, drawn by the lower cost of living and the recently opened center. The mechanics in Indiana worked mostly on Boeing 737's, but as United expanded the operation -- opening more repair bays, hiring more mechanics and extending the legs of the L-shaped building until each was nearly a half-mile long -- they also overhauled other so-called narrow-body aircraft, including Airbus 319's and 320's and the larger Boeing 757's. 
 With morale high in the 1990's and the mechanics willing to work hard, they put airliners through their periodic overhauls in record time. The stem-to-stern refurbishing of a 737 normally required 22 days at other maintenance centers. The mechanics at Indianapolis cut that to 11 days for a 737 going through its first heavy maintenance and to less than 20 days for older planes. ''We had overhaul bays that kind of competed in a friendly way to see who could do the best,'' said Frederick L. Mohr, general manager of the Indianapolis center from 1997 until 2002.
 The rapid turnaround meant an infusion of passenger revenue from the additional days that the plane was in service, helping to justify the mechanics' pay of $26 an hour in the late 1990's.
 Capitalizing on the growing productivity, United itself got into outsourcing as a means of keeping the giant center busy during slack periods in its own operations. America West was sending 737's and 757's to Indianapolis for heavy maintenance, and by the spring of 1999 the work force had grown to 2,400 mechanics from fewer than 250 when Mr. Nunnally arrived in 1994. The fast turnarounds and reliable work justified the relatively high fees that United charged, and America West shifted maintenance to Indianapolis from a private, less expensive contractor in Portland, Ore., whose mechanics earned less.
 It was outsourcing in reverse, an American victory in the global competition. ''We had people visiting us from Europe to see what we were doing,'' Mr. Mohr said. 
 What these visitors saw as they approached the maintenance center was a strikingly futuristic light gray structure, trimmed jauntily in blue, that had risen in the rolling, grassy fields on the far side of the runways, opposite the terminal. The soaring entrance hall, designed to suggest a giant airliner cabin without seats, reflected the efficiencies that were built into nearly every aspect of the building. The mechanics came and went through this hall, where before or after a shift or during a meal break, they took care of nonproductive chores: banking at a credit union, visiting a personnel office, shopping at a small store. 
 On the eve of the closing, only Hangar 1A was active. A 737 was parked there, its interior gutted. It was the last airliner United would recondition in Indianapolis, and David Doucey, the maintenance center's operations manager, said matter-of-factly that although the mechanics had already received their layoff notices, they would finish the job seven or eight days faster than any other center could.
 Parts from the dismantled interior were spread out on an unpainted wooden floor, a mezzanine that fit snugly around the plane just below the wings and stretched out 200 feet on either side. The servicing of many components removed from the cabin and cockpit took place there, eliminating the time required to send them to workshops elsewhere -- the practice at other centers.
 The time-saving features were numerous, and Mr. Doucey pointed them out. Hydraulic devices erect scaffolding around the plane in an hour, rather than the four hours required elsewhere. Parts are ordered by computer and delivered on an automated miniature railroad, rather than by hand or on bicycles as in other shops. A controlled climate permits mechanics to use fiberglass or graphite composites to patch a plane's outer skin without having to send the sections to special shops. 
 What drove away America West was the labor trouble that erupted over the Fourth of July weekend in 1999 and then mushroomed into a prolonged slowdown. In retrospect, that weekend was the turning point, the moment when the remarkable efficiencies that had been achieved at Indianapolis began to unwind, and labor-management tensions that had been accumulating suddenly asserted themselves.
 IN an earlier era, the two sides would have tried to settle their differences through negotiation and would probably have succeeded. There was really no other alternative. The outsourcing of maintenance did not exist before the 1980's; airlines did their own maintenance. But now layoffs and outsourcing had become an easy and acceptable option. Everywhere in America, the barriers to layoffs came down one after another starting in the late 1970's, and by the turn of the century there was acquiescence.
 The incident that started United down the road to outsourcing and layoffs seemed so minor. During the trusting years, the foremen had relaxed the restrictions on the number of mechanics who could take vacation days at the same time. For that Independence Day weekend, more than 100 mechanics had been granted time off -- 10 times the prescribed number.
 Mr. Mohr, the general manager, was himself on vacation in the days leading up to the weekend, and he called the office to remind his lieutenants to be careful about allowing too many mechanics to be away. Somehow that became a wholesale, last-minute cancellation of vacation time, outraging the mechanics. ''To this day, they get upset when they talk about what happened that weekend,'' Mr. Doucey said.
 The uproar over vacations stirred up other resentments -- how United had gotten tough about sick days, how it had scaled back flexible hours, how it had substituted an 8-hour shift for a 10-hour one that allowed three- and four-day weekends, which the mechanics preferred.
 ''Once the vacation thing happened, that ignited a lot of small fires,'' Mr. Nunnally said. The militants in his local fanned those fires, arguing that the mechanics, because of their unique skills, were special people, essential to airline safety, and that United should be forced to recognize their value.
 Mr. Mohr resisted this logic. ''Anything we had to do to respond to the business environment was seized upon by the mechanics as something negative,'' he said. Mr. Nunnally, who was then chairman of the lodge's grievance committee, was caught between management and his members, his leadership challenged by the militants, who numbered nearly 300 mechanics. ''I said to Mohr, 'I have to have some wins, too; I can't be beaten in every grievance and do nothing,' '' Mr. Nunnally said. ''I practically begged him to cooperate, and he could not do that.''
 BY the fall of 1999, the mechanics were engaged in a slowdown. That is not difficult when airline safety is at issue. If an inspector, drawn from the ranks of the mechanics, finds fault with a newly refurbished wing flap assembly or some other repair, he writes up a ticket reporting the flaw or a potential malfunction; even if there isn't a problem, time has to be spent to investigate the issue to the satisfaction of the Federal Aviation Administration.
 As the mechanics had intended, turnaround time inched up, soon reaching 15 days and eventually more than 20 days for a 737. America West stopped sending planes to Indianapolis, as the mechanics had hoped. To regain the lost business, they expected United to restore some of the lost perquisites and thus win back the mechanics' cooperation. Jobs would be preserved, and on the mechanics' terms. That did not happen, and as the slowdown dragged on, work backed up on United's own airliners. For the first time, planes were parked on the tarmac outside the center, out of service -- and not generating revenue -- while awaiting overhaul.
 Then, in July 2000, the mechanics slowed work even more by voting to withhold overtime, to protest what the militants viewed as management's recalcitrance in negotiating a new contract to replace one that had just expired. Mr. Nunnally, as grievance chairman, had spoken against withholding overtime, and worked it himself, in defiance of his militant members, but his point of view did not prevail.
 Soon after, the outsourcing began. United diverted work from Indianapolis to private contractors in Alabama and North Carolina, contractors who employed nonunion mechanics -- in most cases, at lower wages and with fewer benefits. ''The outsourcing was a business decision,'' Mr. Mohr said. ''The cycle time had gotten to the point that if we did not outsource, we would have aircraft continuously parked, waiting for maintenance.''
 When United and the union finally signed a new contract in March 2002 -- 20 months after the old one expired -- and the mechanics in Lodge 2294 lifted their ban on overtime, United continued to outsource maintenance, gradually shrinking the operation in Indianapolis. Under the new agreement, the mechanics' combined wages and benefits rose to more than $60 an hour, an increase of roughly $20. While that was the first increase in five years, the new total was double the labor cost of nonunion contractors. It was too big a spread for the mechanics in Indianapolis to overcome -- unless they could return to the record turnarounds achieved in the late 1990's. But the old efficiency did not reappear.
 Even if it had, the outsourcing would not have stopped, and for a reason quite apart from labor costs. United would not submit again to the leverage over maintenance operations that the mechanics in Indianapolis had exercised. Outsourcing had become too easy an alternative, and the airline crisis that followed the terrorist attacks of September 2001 only encouraged the practice.
 What had started as an escape from a unionized, often militant work force took on a second function. The outsourcing of heavy maintenance became a means for the airlines to cut costs, and nearly every major airline gradually moved that way. In an earlier era, before layoffs and outsourcing were acceptable options, United might have weathered the crisis by taking in work from other airlines, as it had once done with America West. But layoffs and outsourcing were now standard practice, and rather than pursue economies of scale, United sought heavy maintenance at the lowest immediate cost. As work shifted away from Indianapolis, the layoffs multiplied.
 The 60 mechanics gathered at the Days Inn that January evening were in the fourth wave to lose their jobs, bringing the total to 1,200. The recycling of former mechanics into new lines of work was now in full swing, and Mr. Nunnally, when he had finished speaking about the importance of filing promptly for unemployment benefits, introduced Tori E. Bucko. She turned out to be the main speaker, the chief of the boot camp that the mechanics were being encouraged to enter.
 Given her responsibilities, Ms. Bucko was surprisingly young -- only 30. But as the manager of a federally subsidized program for processing laid-off airline workers in Indianapolis, she would soon play a more important role in the lives of many of the mechanics than Mr. Nunnally or the union they were leaving behind.
 The program that Ms. Bucko directed was sponsored by the Indianapolis Private Industry Council, a coalition of companies, unions, government agencies and civic groups. Virtually all of the funding comes from Washington, which sends less than $7 billion a year to the states to recycle laid-off workers back into jobs. In Indiana's case, the state distributes its share of the federal money to 16 regional work-force investment boards. The Indianapolis Private Industry Council is one of these boards, and the council in turn paid a private, nonprofit company, Goodwill Industries of Central Indiana, to do the actual work.
 Goodwill employed Ms. Bucko as the manager in charge of the recycling program for laid-off airline workers in Marion County, whose boundaries encompass the city of Indianapolis. Goodwill also recycled men and women laid off in other industries in Marion County, recruiting them as they signed up for unemployment benefits at state-run offices. But in the winter of 2003, outcast airline employees, two-thirds of them United's mechanics, were still getting special attention in what was called the AIR Project, the short name for Airline Industry Re-careerment Project, a title that suggests just how awkward and difficult recycling is.
 Ms. Bucko's task, in this initial presentation at the Days Inn, was to encourage the 60 mechanics to take the next step. There would be no help for them if they failed to show up at the AIR Project's center, in an industrial park not far from the airport. There, they would be asked to fill out a detailed enrollment application and submit to a series of workshops and evaluations.
 What Ms. Bucko did not mention was the pressure on her employer, Goodwill Industries, and on herself, to meet the employment goals specified in the federal grant -- to get most of the mechanics re-employed at 90 percent of their previous wage. Meeting this goal was a condition for getting more federal money once the initial grant expired. In the end, Goodwill managed to put together enough money to string out the AIR Project for nearly four years. But the employment goals were not met. They could not be met; they were too optimistic, mythically optimistic.
 Ms. Bucko knew that as she struggled to meet the standard. So did Carolyn Brown, vice president of the Indianapolis Private Industry Council, the agency that picked Goodwill Industries to run the project. ''When large numbers of people are laid off, there just isn't any occupational cluster that is waiting out there to receive them,'' Ms. Brown said.
 Job training, as a result, became a channeling process, channeling the unemployed into the unfilled jobs that do exist, with a veneer of training along the way. Yet job training is central to employment policy. It has been since 1982, when Congress passed the Job Training Partnership Act at the urging of President Ronald Reagan. President Bill Clinton took job training even further, making it available to higher-income workers -- including the aircraft mechanics in Indianapolis. 
 Saying that the country should solve the skills shortage through education and training became part of nearly every politician's stump speech, an innocuous way to address the politics of unemployment without strengthening either the bargaining leverage of workers or the federal government's role in bolstering labor markets.
 But training for what? The reality, as the aircraft mechanics discovered, is painfully different from the reigning wisdom. Rather than having a shortage of skills, millions of American workers have more skills than their jobs require. That is particularly true of college-educated people, who make up 30 percent of the population today, up from 10 percent in the 1960's. They often find themselves working in sales or as office administrators, or taking jobs in hotels and restaurants, or becoming carpenters, flight attendants and word processors.
 The number of jobs that require a bachelor's degree has indeed been growing, but more slowly than the number of graduates, according to the Labor Department, and that trend is likely to continue through this decade. ''The average college graduate is doing very well,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a labor economist at Harvard. ''But on the margin, college graduates appear to be more vulnerable than in the past.''
 The Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics offers a rough estimate of the imbalance in the demand for jobs as opposed to the supply. Each month since December 2000, it has surveyed the number of job vacancies across the country and compared it with the number of unemployed job seekers. On average, there were 2.6 job seekers for every job opening over the first 41 months of the survey. That ratio would have been even higher, according to the bureau, if the calculation had included the millions of people who stopped looking for work because they did not believe that they could get decent jobs.
 So the demand for jobs is considerably greater than the supply, and the supply is not what the reigning theory says it is. Most of the unfilled jobs pay low wages and require relatively little skill, often less than the jobholder has. From the spring of 2003 to the spring of 2004, for example, more than 55 percent of the hiring was at wages of $13.25 an hour or less: hotel and restaurant workers, health care employees, temporary replacements and the like. 
 That trend is likely to continue. Seven of the 10 occupations expected to grow the fastest from 2002 through 2012, according to the Labor Department, pay less than $13.25 an hour, on average: retail salesclerks, customer service representatives, food service workers, cashiers, janitors, nurse's aides and hospital orderlies.
 The $13.25 threshold is important. More than 45 percent of the nation's workers, whatever their skills, earned less than $13.25 an hour in 2004, or $27,600 a year for a full-time worker. That is roughly the income that a family of four must have in many parts of the country to maintain a standard of living minimally above the poverty level. Surely lack of skill and education does not hold down the wages of nearly half the work force.
 Something quite different seems to be true: the oversupply of skilled workers is driving people into jobs beneath their skills and driving down the pay of jobs equal to their skills. Both happened to the aircraft mechanics laid off by United.
 Ms. Bucko's results in recycling workers into new jobs were as good as any in the country. Hers was a showcase program, better financed than most, and in the aircraft mechanics she had skilled people who urgently wanted to get back to their previous income levels. By the spring of 2004, however, out of more than 800 mechanics from United who had gone through her program or were still going through it, only 185 were working again.
 Despite their skill, 33 of those 185, or 18 percent, were earning less than $13.25 an hour working in warehouses, on construction jobs, in restaurants or in retailing. Some were ''throwing boxes,'' as the mechanics put it, for FedEx, which paid them only $10 an hour at its shipping center in Indianapolis. They took the work, which entailed loading and unloading air freight packages, for two reasons: FedEx offered them company-paid health insurance, which some of the mechanics desperately wanted, and they saw in the job a gamble worth the hardship, given the glum alternatives.
 After a year on the payroll they would qualify as insiders to bid for an aircraft mechanic's slot at FedEx, when one came open. Although the company is nonunion, it paid its mechanics $25 an hour or more in Indianapolis, roughly comparable to what the mechanics had earned at United.
 Earning the old level of pay again was rare. Of the 185 mechanics back at work in the spring of 2004, most earned $14 to $20 an hour as heating and air-conditioning repairmen, auto mechanics, computer maintenance workers, freight train conductors (CSX happened to be hiring) or cross-country tractor-trailer drivers, having graduated from a two-week driver-training course offered by Ms. Bucko's people.
 THE relatively high number of mechanics who became truck drivers angered Mr. Nunnally, the union leader, who now made a living washing windows, which he did in partnership with another former mechanic. ''Here's a guy who fixed planes and now he is encouraged to be a truck driver, and at first he is offended that they would even suggest that he become a professional truck driver,'' Mr. Nunnally said. ''But from the point of view of the people in Tori Bucko's operation, who have seen guys with families run out of severance pay and unemployment benefits, from their point of view, it is: 'How do you get these guys back into the job market as quickly as possible?' ''
 Ms. Bucko put it more succinctly. They see a commercial driver's license as a ''quick fix,'' she said. '' 'Send me to two weeks' truck driving school,' they say. 'I'll get my C.D.L. I'll hit the road.' And many have done that,'' she added.
 Only 15 of the re-employed mechanics had regained their United wage level or exceeded it, and 8 of those 15 did so by becoming aircraft mechanics again. Several of the mechanics, stifling reluctance and resentment, had left Indianapolis to work for the companies that United and other airlines were using to do heavy aircraft maintenance. They were mostly younger mechanics with relatively little seniority when United laid them off and were still low on the wage scale, earning $19 or $20 an hour, which is what the outsourcing contractors also paid them. For the contractors, however, $19 or $20 an hour was top pay.
 The wage loss from layoffs is now a pattern that shows up not only in individual cases, like that of the United mechanics, but in national surveys as well. Two years after a layoff, two-thirds of the victims say they are working again, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Of those two-thirds, only 40 percent, on average, make as much as they had in their old jobs, a less drastic result than that for the aircraft mechanics, but the same general breakdown.
 The rest are making less, often much less. Out of 100 laid-off workers, then, 27 make their old salary again, or more -- and 73 make less, or are not working at all. That downward pull contributes to the wage stagnation that has persisted for most of the work force, with only occasional relief, since the 1970's.
 Ms. Bucko's presentation to the 60 mechanics gathered at the Days Inn was a crucial first step in the process of funneling the mechanics back into jobs, and she went at it bluntly, encouraging them to sign up but also dousing them with a demeaning reality. They must start from scratch in their search for a job, she told them, and she offered workshops in resume writing and in how to behave in job interviews.
 When searching for work in other fields, the mechanics will find themselves taking entry-level tests that more and more employers require of job applicants. In preparation for those tests, her center offered training in algebra -- mainly fractions and decimals -- and in spelling. Mistakes in these basic skills can mean rejection for a job, she explained.
 The mechanics listened in utter silence as she canceled out their past. ''We will do career assessment, to bring out the skills that you have, not just skill in the work you think you want, but skills you don't realize you have,'' she explained. ''If you are a coach on your son's or daughter's team, that is a transferable skill.''
 Discouraged by such talk, some of the mechanics did not show up at the AIR Project center to enroll in Ms. Bucko's boot camp, and those that did found themselves facing more obstacles as Ms. Bucko and her team tried to winnow out all but the most motivated -- those most determined to complete the training programs. Ms. Bucko said there was no choice. The federal funds for training fell far short of the demand. The only way to stretch the money was to put up obstacles. Even then, most of the people who did complete the program could not find jobs at anywhere near their old pay.
 The process was like a funnel: wide at one end, where all the laid-off workers go in, and narrow at the other, where a limited number gradually emerge into retraining and, if they are lucky, new jobs at decent pay. Mark A. Crouch, a professor of labor studies at Indiana University, used another analogy to describe the recycling of laid-off workers. He called it a ''burial program.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: United Airlines closed its maintenance center, above, near the Indianapolis airport in 2003. It was a busy shop, below, in 1999. (Photo by A. J. Mast)
(Photo by Mary Ann Carter)
Ben Nunnally, as president of the union local that represented United mechanics in Indianapolis, tried to resolve the labor struggle that prompted the center's closing. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 (pg. 9)Drawing (Drawing by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Few Are Chosen''In Indianapolis, the Airline Industry Re-careerment Project, or AIR, was set up in 2001 to help laid-off airline employees, a majority of them United Airlines mechanics, find work. But the program resulted in new jobs for less than 40 percent of those who enrolled in it.FROM PROJECT'S INCEPTION THROUGH MARCH 31, 2005NUMBER OF FORMER AIRLINE EMPLOYEES WHO:Attended an AIR orientation or inquired about services: 1,833Actively enrolled in the AIR Project: 1,371Attended occupational skills training: 666Found employment: 517(Source by Goodwill Industries of Central Indiana)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); AIRLINES (89%); OVERTIME (79%); OUTSOURCING (79%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Labor; Books and Literature; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



543 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: A Stickier Trade Gap 

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
IT'S happened again. Last year was the eighth in a row with a record-setting deficit in the nation's current account, which includes the trade balance and other income from abroad. Yet once upon a time, that big deficit turned around, and it took a mere five years. Could that, too, happen again this time? 
 The main reason to worry about the deficits is that they represent America's growing debt to the rest of the world. If we're not paying for imported goods and services with products of our own, then we're passing out i.o.u.'s in the form of stocks, bonds and other securities. The nation can keep rolling over and issuing more of these i.o.u.'s as long as foreigners are willing to take them. But if that were to change, we'd be in big trouble. 
America has dodged the bullet before. From 1987 to 1991, the annual current account deficit fell from a peak of almost $161 billion -- equivalent to about 3 percent of the domestic economy -- to less than $3 billion. This time, however, the challenge is bigger: the deficit of $805 billion for 2005 was about 6 percent of the domestic economy. And there are other factors that could make a turnaround much more difficult.
 First, consider what took place in the late 1980's and early 1990's. The dollar was falling rapidly against foreign currencies, partly as a result of coordination by the governments of the world's five biggest economies. As the dollar fell, American investments became less attractive to foreign investors; the same returns would be worth less when converted into their home currencies. The returns themselves were falling, too. Taken together with the changes in currencies, the difference between interest rates on American and German mortgages fell by 3.9 percentage points from 1987 to 1991. The difference between 10-year bond yields in the United States and Japan fell by 1.7 percentage points. 
 Clearly, the United States was becoming a relatively less attractive place to invest. The value of the dollar and investment returns held hands as they jumped off a cliff. At the same time, the current account deficit narrowed. Americans couldn't afford as many foreign goods, and foreigners could afford more American goods.
 Now things are heading in the same direction -- sort of. While long-term interest rates remain stubbornly low, if not immobile, in the United States, they are finally starting to rise in Japan and Germany. Those changes may be starting to make a difference in foreign investors' preferences, said Maury N. Harris, chief United States economist at UBS Securities.
 ''When you look at the monthly Treasury international capital flows data, your capital inflows aren't as strong as they were, let's say, six months ago,'' he said. Mr. Harris said he also expected to see the dollar's value decline this year, by about 9 percent relative to the euro.
 But even if exchange rates change with the euro and Japanese yen, it probably won't solve the problem the way it did from 1987 to 1991. The big difference is the ''changing shares of who we import from, and very few changes in who we export to,'' said Catherine L. Mann, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a research group in Washington. ''It's important, because who we import from increasingly is from countries that have exchange rates that have not moved very much.'' 
 Back in 1987, the nation's current account deficit with Japan and Europe, which had fairly flexible currencies, was 62 percent of the total deficit. Last year, it was just 32 percent. In 1987, the current account deficit with the rest of Asia, Africa and Latin America was about 50 percent of the total. In 2005, the share of the deficit for those regions, where many countries link their currencies to the dollar, was an enormous 71 percent. (The numbers in each year don't add up to 100 percent because of surpluses with other countries and international organizations.) 
 These changes matter, because countries like China protect their currency links by keeping plenty of dollar-denominated securities in reserve in their central banks. Private investors help out, too, and all those purchases of American securities keep the dollar's value relatively high. When the dollar's value drops relative to the euro and the yen, its exchange rates with the Chinese yuan and a bevy of other currencies don't follow suit.
 Moreover, even if the economies of Europe and Japan picked up sharply, it might not help American exports as in the late 1980's. ''Today, a really big boom for them is a lot smaller, because they've just slowed down so much in terms of their average growth rates,'' Ms. Mann said. 
 Still, American exporters are not suffering horribly right now. Since hitting a trough in 2002, exports of goods and services have grown by almost 12 percent a year -- much faster than the domestic economy. Things might have been even better, of course, if countries like China had allowed their currencies to float. But those dollar-hungry countries aren't likely to change their behavior very much anytime soon, said Robert J. Hodrick, a professor of international finance at Columbia University. 
 ''The U.S. capital markets are where people want to invest their money right now,'' Professor Hodrick said, ''and the performance of our economy has been really extraordinary, so there's no reason to think that that's a bad idea.'' While a country like South Korea or Malaysia may start to shift a small fraction of its reserves away from dollars, he said, China and Japan probably won't, if only to preserve the value of their enormous investments. ''They're holding so many dollar reserves right now,'' he added, ''that if they changed their policy, they'd just be devaluing themselves.'' 
 FOR the current account deficit to turn around in a hurry in this climate, Mr. Harris said, the United States economy would have to become genuinely weak while that of the rest of the world was strong. Some forecasters do see growth slowing here in the next year or two, while Germany and Japan pick up, and Mr. Harris said the current account deficit could start to shrink by the end of next year. But he added that without really big differences in economic growth, a return to balance in the current account could take a decade -- not just five years, as before.
 Given the alternative, that might not be so bad.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Less Alluring''From 1987 through 1991, certain American financial instruments became less attractive to foreign investors, based on these investments' relative performance against Japanese and German counterparts.Graph tracks difference in 10-year government bond yields (U.S. vs. Japan) and difference in average mortgage rates (U.S. vs. Germany) from 1987 to 1991.Return on U.S. financial instruments minus return on foreign counterparts, after adjustment for variations in exchange rates.(Sources by Federal Reserve Board, Bundesbank, Bank of Japan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STATISTICS (87%); US DOLLAR (86%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Records and Achievements

PERSON: Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



544 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-26-06; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Globalization 2.0 

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Globalization is both unavoidable and of great benefit to the world as a whole. At least that has been the conventional wisdom for more than two decades now, except at the far fringes of the radical, antiglobalization left and the xenophobic, protectionist right. But is it true? Is the march toward economic interdependence, open markets and the weakening of national identity really as unstoppable as all that?
Two recent controversies -- the sale of port facilities to a company owned by the government of Dubai and the negotiation of a controversial nuclear cooperation deal with India -- underscore the tensions and contradictions between America's commitment to economic globalization and its political priorities in a post-9/11 world. 
 In part, these controversies pitted desirable outcomes -- political stability and national security on the one hand; economic dynamism on the other -- against one another. In the ports case, the principles of globalization demanded that the Dubai company be allowed to take over the management of the six ports in question. But advocates of globalization never really took into account the possibility that even as nations become interdependent on one another, political difficulties may continue to separate them. 
 Globalization is a coherent theory for times of comparative peace and economic expansion like the 1990's. It is less persuasive in times of conflict and fear like those we live in today. Although the presidential adviser Karl Rove has insisted that Democrats live in a pre-9/11 world and Republicans do not, the Bush administration's defense of the ports deal seems like a classic case of pre-9/11 thinking. The administration argued that the deal had to go forward if Americans were to remain true to their commitment to open markets and the free movement of investment capital. But add the threat of terrorism and the specter of weapons of mass destruction to the equation, and suddenly the words ''free movement'' seem more like a threat than a harbinger of a more prosperous economic future.
 Bush's deal with India also illustrates the new and unexpected conundrums of globalization. The administration pledged to help India develop nuclear power plants despite that country's refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and its maintenance of an atomic-weapons arsenal. An implicit argument was this: Because India is so important a strategic partner and, prospectively at least, a major economic power, Washington is no longer in a position to insist, even rhetorically, that New Delhi abide by the established rules of the nuclear game. 
 U.S. officials made little effort to deny that they were making an exception in India's case -- an exception they were at pains to point out they would never make for Iran. Rather, as Bush made clear in his joint press conference with the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, the cementing and deepening of the U.S.-Indian alliance were simply too important to allow a mere international legal regime to get in the way. In a world where the economic balance of power is steadily tilting toward Asia, American concerns about runaway arms races are very likely to be overshadowed by American concerns about the need to prevent a destructive competition for scarce fossil-fuel resources with India and China. Better to accept an India that uses more civilian nuclear power (and offers U.S. companies the chance to benefit from the sector's expansion) than to vainly chastise an India that is not going to abandon its nuclear arsenal anyway, whatever the effect on nonproliferation globally.
 In retrospect, globalization's most fervent partisans and critics were both naive to imagine that geopolitics would play second fiddle to geoeconomics. Obviously, the Dubai ports fiasco and the nuclear agreement with India posed very different policy challenges. In the case of Dubai ports, America's traditional role of sponsor and advocate for globalization was politically unsustainable, much to the chagrin of the Bush administration. In the case of the agreement with India, the administration took the view that long-term global stability, including the stability of energy prices, required the abandonment of long-held international legal rules. This is certainly not your grandfather's globalization.
 The Achilles heel of that ''inevitabilist'' vision of globalization, so dominant in the 1990's, was its rigid, almost Marxist-like economic determinism. Today's globalization -- inseparable from political concerns, no longer able to overrule nationalist sentiments or national security objections, increasingly marked by the phenomenon of Asian companies buying European and North American assets -- is most likely to be far more controversial and far less orderly.
 In all likelihood, Asians will complain about Western hypocrisy. After all, when globalization meant Western companies buying one another and acquiring assets in Asia, the U.S. and the countries of the European Union were unstinting advocates of globalization. Now it may seem that Western nations were never committed to economic interdependence -- globalization in the true sense of the word -- but simply to opening new markets for their own corporations and exporting political and legal norms coined in Washington or Brussels. But could it have been otherwise? As both the Indian nuclear agreement and the furor over the Dubai ports deal demonstrate, imagining that nations could not politicize international trade and economic issues or legal norms is as vain a hope as expecting them to act against their own self-interest in any other sphere of public life. Doubtless, some form of globalization is unavoidable. It will just not be the globalization we had been led to expect.

 U.S. Exports and Imports to/from India, 2000-04
 Exports; Imports
 (In millions of dollars)
 2000: 3,667.2; 10,686 .6
 2001: 3,757.0; 9,737 .2
 2002: 4,101.1; 11,818 .3
 2003: 4,986.3; 13,052 .8
 2004: 6,095.0; 15,562 .2
 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2006)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A nuclear reactor in Trombay, India, not far from Mumbai, in 1959. (Photograph by Marilyn Silverstone
 Magnum Photos)Chart: ''Business Partner''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TRENDS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Ships and Shipping; Ports; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; United States International Relations

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (56%); KARL ROVE (54%) David Rieff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (77%); MUMBAI, INDIA (57%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates; India

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



545 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2296 words

HEADLINE: Neo No More

BYLINE: By Paul Berman. 
Paul Berman is a writer in residence at New York University and the author, most recently, of ''Power and the Idealists: Or, The Passion of Joschka Fischer and Its Aftermath.''

 BODY:
AMERICA AT
 THE CROSSROADS 
 Democracy, Power, and
 the Neoconservative Legacy.
 By Francis Fukuyama.
 226 pp. Yale University Press. $25.
In February 2004, Francis Fukuyama attended a neoconservative think-tank dinner in Washington and listened aghast as the featured speaker, the columnist Charles Krauthammer, attributed ''a virtually unqualified success'' to America's efforts in Iraq, and the audience enthusiastically applauded. Fukuyama was aghast partly for the obvious reason, but partly for another reason, too, which, as he explains in the opening pages of his new book, ''America at the Crossroads,'' was entirely personal. In years gone by, Fukuyama would have felt cozily at home among those applauding neoconservatives. He and Krauthammer used to share many a political instinct. It was Krauthammer who wrote the ecstatic topmost blurb (''bold, lucid, scandalously brilliant'') for the back jacket of Fukuyama's masterpiece from 1992, ''The End of History and the Last Man.'' 
 But that was then. 
 Today Fukuyama has decided to resign from the neoconservative movement -- though for reasons that, as he expounds them, may seem a tad ambiguous. In his estimation, neoconservative principles in their pristine version remain valid even now. But his ex-fellow-thinkers have lately given those old ideas a regrettable twist, and dreadful errors have followed. Under these circumstances, Fukuyama figures he has no alternative but to go away and publish his complaint. And he has founded a new political journal to assert his post-neoconservative independence -- though he has given this journal a name, The American Interest, that slyly invokes the legendary neoconservative journals of past (The Public Interest) and present (The National Interest), just to keep readers guessing about his ultimate relation to neoconservative tradition.
 His resignation seems to me, in any case, a fairly notable event, as these things go, and that is because, among the neoconservative intellectuals, Fukuyama has surely been the most imaginative, the most playful in his thinking and the most ambitious. Then again, something about his departure may express a larger mood among the political intellectuals just now, not only on the right. For in the zones of liberalism and the left, as well, any number of people have likewise stood up in these post-9/11 times to accuse their oldest comrades of letting down the cause, and doors have slammed, and The Nation magazine has renamed itself The Weekly Purge. Nowadays, if you are any kind of political thinker at all, and you haven't issued a sweeping denunciation of your dearest friends, or haven't been hanged by them from a lamppost -- why, the spirit of the age has somehow passed you by. 
 Fukuyama offers a thumbnail sketch of neoconservatism and its origins, back to the anti-Communist left at City College in the 1930's and 40's and to the conservative philosophers (Leo Strauss, Allan Bloom, Albert Wohlstetter) at the University of Chicago in later years. From these disparate origins, the neoconservatives eventually generated ''a set of coherent principles,'' which, taken together, ended up defining their impulse in foreign affairs during the last quarter-century. They upheld a belief that democratic states are by nature friendly and unthreatening, and therefore America ought to go around the world promoting democracy and human rights wherever possible. They believed that American power can serve moral purposes. They doubted the usefulness of international law and institutions. And they were skeptical about what is called ''social engineering'' -- about big government and its ability to generate positive social changes. 
 Such is Fukuyama's summary. It seems to me too kind. For how did the neoconservatives propose to reconcile their ambitious desire to combat despotism around the world with their cautious aversion to social engineering? Fukuyama notes that during the 1990's the neoconservatives veered in militarist directions, which strikes him as a mistake. A less sympathetic observer might recall that neoconservative foreign policy thinking has all along indulged a romance of the ruthless -- an expectation that small numbers of people might be able to play a decisive role in world events, if only their ferocity could be unleashed. It was a romance of the ruthless that led some of the early generation of neoconservatives in the 1970's to champion the grisliest of anti-Communist guerrillas in Angola; and, during the next decade, led the neoconservatives to champion some not very attractive anti-Communist guerrillas in Central America, too; and led the Reagan administration's neoconservatives into the swamps of the Iran-contra scandal in order to go on championing their guerrillas. Doesn't this same impulse shed a light on the baffling question of how the Bush administration of our own time could have managed to yoke together a stirring democratic oratory with a series of grotesque scandals involving American torture -- this very weird and self-defeating combination of idealism and brass knuckles? But Fukuyama must not agree.
 The criticisms he does propose are pretty scathing. In 2002, Fukuyama came to the conclusion that invading Iraq was going to be a gamble with unacceptably long odds. Then he watched with dismay as the administration adopted one strange policy after another that was bound to make the odds still longer. The White House decided to ignore any useful lessons the Clinton administration might have learned in Bosnia and Kosovo, on the grounds that whatever Bill Clinton did -- for example, conduct a successful intervention -- George W. Bush wanted to do the opposite. There was the diplomatic folly of announcing an intention to dominate the globe, and so forth -- all of which leads Fukuyama, scratching his head, to propose a psychological explanation. 
 The neoconservatives, he suggests, are people who, having witnessed the collapse of Communism long ago, ought to look back on those gigantic events as a one-in-a-zillion lucky break, like winning the lottery. Instead, the neoconservatives, victims of their own success, came to believe that Communism's implosion reflected the deepest laws of history, which were operating in their own and America's favor -- a formula for hubris. This is a shrewd observation, and might seem peculiar only because Fukuyama's own ''End of History'' articulated the world's most eloquent argument for detecting within the collapse of Communism the deepest laws of history. He insists in his new book that ''The End of History'' ought never to have led anyone to adopt such a view, but this makes me think only that Fukuyama is an utterly unreliable interpreter of his own writings. 
 He wonders why Bush never proposed a more convincing justification for invading Iraq -- based not just on a fear of Saddam Hussein's weapons (which could have been expressed in a non-alarmist fashion), nor just on the argument for human rights and humanitarianism, which Bush did raise, after a while. A genuinely cogent argument, as Fukuyama sees it, would have drawn attention to the problems that arose from America's prewar standoff with Hussein. The American-led sanctions against Iraq were the only factor that kept him from building his weapons. The sanctions were crumbling, though. Meanwhile, they were arousing anti-American furies across the Middle East on the grounds (entirely correct, I might add) that America was helping to inflict horrible damage on the Iraqi people. American troops took up positions in the region to help contain Hussein -- and the presence of those troops succeeded in infuriating Osama bin Laden. In short, the prewar standoff with Hussein was untenable morally and even politically. But there was no way to end the standoff apart from ending Hussein's dictatorship. 
 Now, I notice that in stressing this strategic argument, together with the humanitarian and human rights issue, and in pointing out lessons from the Balkans, Fukuyama has willy-nilly outlined some main elements of the liberal interventionist position of three years ago, at least in one of its versions. In the Iraq war, liberal interventionism was the road not taken, to be sure. Nor was liberal interventionism his own position. However, I have to say that, having read his book, I'm not entirely sure what position he did adopt, apart from wisely admonishing everyone to tread carefully. He does make plain that, having launched wars hither and yon, the United States had better ensure that, in Afghanistan and Iraq alike, stable antiterrorist governments finally emerge. 
 He proposes a post-Bush foreign policy, which he styles ''realistic Wilsonianism'' -- his new motto in place of neoconservatism. He worries that because of Bush's blunders, Americans on the right and the left are going to retreat into a Kissinger-style reluctance to promote democratic values in other parts of the world. Fukuyama does want to promote democratic values -- ''what is in the end a revolutionary American foreign policy agenda'' -- though he would like to be cautious about it, and even multilateral about it. The United Nations seems to him largely unsalvageable, given the role of nondemocratic countries there. But he thinks that a variety of other institutions, consisting strictly of democracies, might be able to establish and sometimes even enforce a new and superior version of international legitimacy. He wants to encourage economic development in poor countries, too -- if only a method can be found that avoids the dreadful phrase ''social engineering.''
 Fukuyama offers firm recommendations about the struggle against terrorism. He says, ''The rhetoric about World War IV and the global war on terrorism should cease.'' Rhetoric of this sort, in his view, overstates our present problem, and dangerously so, by ''suggesting that we are taking on a large part of the Arab and Muslim worlds.'' He may be right, too, depending on who is using the rhetoric. Then again, I worry that Fukuyama's preferred language may shrink our predicament into something smaller than it ever was. He pictures the present struggle as a ''counterinsurgency'' campaign -- a struggle in which, before the Iraq war, ''no more than a few thousand people around the world'' threatened the United States. I suppose he has in mind an elite among the 10,000 to 20,000 people who are said to have trained at bin Laden's Afghan camps, plus other people who may never have gotten out of the immigrant districts of Western Europe. But the slaughters contemplated by this elite have always outrivaled anything contemplated by more conventional insurgencies -- as Fukuyama does recognize in some passages. And there is the pesky problem that, as we have learned, the elite few thousand appear to have the ability endlessly to renew themselves. 
 HERE is where a rhetoric pointing to something larger than a typical counterinsurgency campaign may have a virtue, after all. A more grandiose rhetoric draws our attention, at least, to the danger of gigantic massacres. And a more grandiose rhetoric might lead us to think about ideological questions. Why are so many people eager to join the jihadi elite? They are eager for ideological reasons, exactly as in the case of fascists and other totalitarians of the past. These people will be defeated only when their ideologies begin to seem exhausted, which means that any struggle against them has to be, above all, a battle of ideas -- a campaign to persuade entire mass movements around the world to abandon their present doctrines in favor of more liberal ones. Or so it seems to me. Fukuyama acknowledges that the terrorist ideology of today, as he describes it, ''owes a great deal to Western ideas in addition to Islam'' and appeals to the same kind of people who, in earlier times, might have been drawn to Communism or fascism. Even so, for all the marvelous fecundity of his political imagination, he has very little to say about this ideology and the war of ideas. I wonder why. 
 I think maybe it is because, when Fukuyama wrote ''The End of History,'' he was a Hegelian, and he remains one even now. Hegel's doctrine is a philosophy of history in which every new phase of human development is thought to be more or less an improvement over whatever had come before. In ''America at the Crossroads,'' Fukuyama describes the Hegelianism of ''The End of History'' as a version of ''modernization'' theory, bringing his optimistic vision of progress into the world of modern social science. But the problem with modernization theory was always a tendency to concentrate most of its attention on the steadily progressing phases of history, as determined by the predictable workings of sociology or economics or psychology -- and to relegate the free play of unpredictable ideas and ideologies to the margins of world events.
 And yet, what dominated the 20th century, what drowned the century in oceans of blood, was precisely the free play of ideas and ideologies, which could never be relegated entirely to the workings of sociology, economics, psychology or any of the other categories of social science. In my view, we are seeing the continuing strength of 20th-century-style ideologies right now -- the ideologies that have motivated Baathists and the more radical Islamists to slaughter millions of their fellow Muslims in the last 25 years, together with a few thousand people who were not Muslims. Fukuyama is always worth reading, and his new book contains ideas that I hope the non-neoconservatives of America will adopt. But neither his old arguments nor his new ones offer much insight into this, the most important problem of all -- the problem of murderous ideologies and how to combat them.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Carol T. Powers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); RESIGNATIONS (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Paul Berman; Francis Fukuyama

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



546 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: With Broadband, The PC's Siren Call Is Tough to Resist

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
If you had any lingering doubts that the Internet was rapidly elbowing its way into becoming an outsize presence in the American household, check out new numbers from Nielsen/NetRatings. 
 Just three short years ago -- an eternity when you consider the explosive growth of the online juggernaut -- regular Internet users already spent 25 1/2 hours a month sitting at the computer, the Nielsen/NetRatings study says. By now that has shot up to 30 1/2 hours -- fully an hour a day. (It's a wonder that people still also have time to watch the vast quantity of television they do. When do they wash the floor? Practice piano? Do laundry?)
Why so much time at the PC? Surely because, as Nielsen/NetRatings' figures also show, broadband use has exploded, to 68 percent of Web users today from 33 percent three years ago. The computer's always on, making it easy to, say, look up an air fare or check whether your daughter at college has finally answered your e-mail message. HUBERT B. HERRING


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Speeding Up''Percentage of active Internet users in the United States using broadband in their homesFEB.'03: 33%FEB.'04: 45FEB.'05: 55FEB.'06: 68(Source by Nielsen/NetRatings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); BROADBAND (90%) Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: NETRATINGS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Nielsen/net Ratings

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



547 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Another Chorus From The Fed. Then What?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AN interest rate increase is almost universally expected when Federal Reserve policy makers meet on Tuesday. But what the Fed does after that is anybody's guess, said Henry J. Herrmann, chief executive of Waddell & Reed, the asset management firm. 
 ''If the economic data show any indication of moderate slowing, the Fed is done this time or at the May meeting -- for a while,'' Mr. Herrmann said.
What happens farther down the road is much less certain, he said. The Fed may pause for a few months and then resume raising rates, or it may move the other way if economic reports warrant -- if the housing market slows appreciably, for example.
 Future Fed actions appear to be unclear even to the Fed, which has indicated that it considers its credit policy to be fairly balanced between restrictive and accommodative. Therefore, Mr. Herrmann has advised investors not to be swept up in whatever moves the stock and bond markets make after the announcement.
 A speech last week by the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, was interpreted by Fed watchers as expressing faith in the economy's continued strength. But Mr. Herrmann noted that the spike in bond yields that followed the speech was substantially retracted almost immediately. Any reaction on Tuesday could prove equally ephemeral.
 ''Other than a one-day pop up or down based on people's interpretation of the wording, I think it will be a nonevent,'' he predicted.
 Mr. Herrmann will also watch this week for negative earnings projections from companies and analysts as ''preannouncement season'' continues. He encouraged investors not to join any market reaction to these, either, because they could be equally faked out.
 ''Some people are worried that we're starting to see a slowing in earnings guidance,'' he said. ''It will be interesting to see how that plays out. In the fourth quarter, there were early indications of slowing and the market fell, then the revisions went up and the market went up.''

DATA WATCH -- A few hours before the Fed announcement on Tuesday, the Conference Board will release its report on March consumer confidence. A reading of 101.9 is forecast in a Bloomberg News poll of economists, a slight improvement from 101.7 last month.
 March, and the first quarter, are set to end with a statistical bang. Reports covering personal spending and income, factory orders and consumer confidence -- as measured by the University of Michigan this time -- are all on the calendar for Friday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly index of Consumer Confidence from 2005 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds

COMPANY: WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (58%); WADDELL & REED INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: WDR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



548 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: The Fallback

 BODY:
Matt Bai's profile of former Governor Mark Warner of Virginia discussed a dozen or so possible Democratic presidential candidates (March 12). I was intrigued by several, but I found myself asking the same question of them all, Warner and Senator Clinton included: What makes you a Democrat? Democrats should choose a candidate by identifying the one who most forcefully articulates a Democratic vision, rather than by trotting out the best fund-raiser or the hottest new property every four years. 
 The time is right to express a vision that unabashedly asserts that the Democratic Party is the party of economic and social justice. It is the thread that runs through Democratic governance at least since F.D.R. Why not just say so?

Patrick M. Livingston
 Pittsburgh

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs: left: Alexei Hay
 Right: David Burnett/Contact.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (51%) Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: MARK WARNER (90%) Mark R (Gov) Warner; Matt Bai; Patrick M Livingston

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



549 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: The Living Section

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROWNING. 
Dominique Browning is editor in chief of House & Garden and the author of ''Paths of Desire: The Passions of a Suburban Gardener.''

 BODY:
HOUSE THINKING
 A Room-By-Room Look at How We Live.
 By Winifred Gallagher.
 329 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
I spend my days examining, room by room, how we live -- ''house thinking,'' as Winifred Gallagher would have it. Mine is a job that some intellectuals might disdain. No matter: most people (including some of the smartest) spend a great deal of time thinking about houses, whether professionally or out of sheer love. So I welcome any book that takes seriously a subject as old as recorded history and as deeply felt as anything else in our lives.
 Where and how we live is of great consequence to the way we feel: our houses affect our moods, our thinking. They help shape and express our identities as social creatures and give us the berth we need for privacy -- even, from time to time, for isolation. 
 In her engaging new book, ''House Thinking,'' Gallagher gives us a room-by-room architectural history -- a tour that, of course, turns out to involve fascinating points of sociology, economics, culture and politics. Her chapter entitled ''The Entry and the Plan'' begins, for example, with the approach to Monticello and the mansion's front hall -- which, ''with a psychological insight that matched his architectural talent and dramatic flair,'' Thomas Jefferson filled with artworks and a large natural science collection, including a mastodon's jaw. The visitor who took a seat in one of 28 Windsor chairs had ''no choice,'' Gallagher notes, ''but to marvel'' at the collection ''and the person who had assembled it.'' (Any tourist to Monticello quickly learns that Jefferson was, as Gallagher puts it, ''obsessed with his home.'' What's especially interesting is that in his time it was the man's role to think about the arrangement of furniture and the decoration of walls -- probably because they required an investment of time, money and world travel much too valuable to entrust to a wife.)
 From Jefferson's era, Gallagher turns to 1870's New Jersey and a ''Victorian Stick-style 'cottage' '' designed by Frank Furness for a wealthy bachelor named Emlen Physick, ''an architectural illustration of a home that was just right'' for the sort of ''status-conscious, tightly regulated, highly segmented Victorian culture'' in which the front hall ''was a screening station beyond which many never passed.'' Gallagher then leads us rapidly through California's mid-20th-century Case Study houses (25 homes based on the requirements of a specific client and sponsored by Arts and Architecture magazine), with their flowing living spaces and use of industrial techniques and materials, and then on to some of the houses being built in our own time.
 This type of historical tour is repeated in each room of the house, and in many ways it's the most interesting aspect of ''House Thinking.'' We are taken to Longfellow's dining room and Edith Wharton's bedroom, and along the way we learn much about how such rooms have come to be designed and used. But ''House Thinking'' is more than a history of domestic architecture. Gallagher also presents entertaining and enlightening stories about how people choose to organize their belongings and she ponders many related subjects: from the impulse to collect to the healing nature of gardens to the ''dispiriting'' experience of entering a home through ''even the grandest garage.''
 Underlying every discussion is a definite, if unstated, prejudice in favor of a certain kind of architecture and lifestyle. Why are so many suburbs filled with McMansions? Gallagher argues that their designers and owners haven't engaged in proper house thinking. If they had, they would understand that by her standards, their great rooms can be overwhelming, their front halls intimidating and wasteful, their kitchens nothing but showcases for takeout. And yet people build these houses, live in them and love them. Why?
 It would have been interesting to explore the McMansion problem, the design world's correlative to the obesity epidemic. Is there something about a need for status that's overshadowing a need for coziness? Is there a great insecurity about new money that leads to these enormous facades? Is it braggadocio or simply confidence that's expressed in the McMansion's size? Are we building mighty fortresses? Is the divorce rate falling because people can live separate lives in the same house, phoning from one wing to the other to negotiate bedroom visitation?
 Gallagher speaks to many of the professionals of house thinking (though they wouldn't think of themselves that way) -- not just architects but also behavioral scientists and environmental psychologists. And this is where her book runs into trouble. There's something intriguing about a subculture devoted to studying the way we live at home, but do we really need a Ph.D. to understand ''environmental psychology's most important, and deceptively simple, principle regarding home: yours should meet your physical and psychological needs''?
 Gallagher quotes one environmental psychologist on ''the great room's potential for enforcing togetherness'' and another on allowing its design to include ''stimulus shelters'' where someone might read or send e-mail messages. At first, I misread a reference to ''distributed domesticity'' as ''disturbed domesticity,'' but it boils down to the same thing -- we do some things elsewhere that we used to do at home. My favorite bit of jargon, though, is what another environmental psychologist calls ''sociopetal'' and ''sociofugal'' arrangements'' of furniture. (That would be good and bad decorating.)
 It's as if Gallagher didn't trust her subject to be serious enough without dressing it up (if you can call it that) in the language of academia. And she seems to have a beef with ''the profit-driven experts, media and merchants'' (that would include me, among many others) ''who insist that how our houses and apartments look is more important than the less commercial but more crucial issue of how they make us feel.'' No, we don't insist on that, not at all. And this brings me to my quarrel with her book: Why create the great divide? The fact is, most people don't think about how things look without thinking about -- well, that's the problem. You don't need to mediate the feeling of a room by thinking about it; feeling often bypasses thinking.
 Most of us can't see a room without feeling it. We don't like the way something looks if it makes us feel anxious, and we do like the way a room looks if it makes us feel happy or serene. Overstuffed rooms make some people anxious; minimally furnished rooms make others anxious. There isn't an underlying, scientific reason for any of this. You might as well consult Freud's couch for the answers.
 Why pit populist approaches against academic analysis? Perhaps it grows out of wishful thinking. If we could systematize an approach to architecture and design, we wouldn't build dysfunctional houses. But who is to say that my response to what I need from my shelter is better or worse than yours? Regular people engage in ''house thinking'' all the time; just because they don't use that label doesn't mean they shouldn't get credit for what they're doing. There's a reason television shows and decorating magazines are so popular -- and it's the reason for this book's appeal. All these sources feed an appetite for information and inspiration about how we can live better. There's no need to complicate the subject; it's hard enough to choose a paint color without worrying about what a behavioral scientist would say.
 ''House Thinking'' is a book full of tenderness and care. It's wonderfully generous with information about everything from health to pets and plumbing. At its best, it's enthusiastic and unpretentious. Despite its reliance on sometimes dubious experts, Gallagher's work is valuable because of her own thoughtfulness, imagination and insight, and for the range and quality of observation she brings to a subject that's dear to the heart: home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); CASE STUDIES (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Dominique Browning; Winifred Gallagher

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



550 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: The Scent Of the Past

BYLINE: By MARK CALDWELL. 
Mark Caldwell is the author of ''New York Night: The Mystique and Its History.''

 BODY:
THESE days, the old Fulton Fish Market looks like nothing so much as a derelict truck repair garage: a vacant hulk of steel columns, dented corrugated metal and rust-stained cement block, squatting by the East River underneath the F.D.R. Drive. From its nearest surviving neighbor, the South Street Seaport shopping mall on Pier 17, an aroma of burnt pizza crusts intermittently drifts through the neighborhood. 
 The fish, the fishmongers, the buyers, the truckers and the hangers-on who used to be drawn to the market are gone. For the first time in a century and a half, the fish market is without fish.
Possibly the best guide to the area surrounding the intersection of Fulton and South Streets is Jack Putnam, a museum educator at South Street Seaport and a near-legendary expert on the city's maritime and commercial history. 
 With a contingent of escorts from the Economic Development Corporation, the city agency that now owns the place, he paid a visit to the old market the other day to revisit its chief remaining landmark, the Tin Building. 
 Despite its drab industrial facade, the 1907 Tin Building shows its age in the three ornate gables that crown it, though the highway platform hides them from most angles. But architecture has never been a preoccupation of the fish trade, and the Tin Building is fundamentally as unpretending as the earliest free-standing Fulton Fish Market, a humble, one-story wooden shed 195 feet long, erected on the site in 1831. The Tin Building is 13 feet longer and somewhat wider, but its interest lies not in the walls or roof, but in what went on within them. 
 ''The place is really a theater,'' Mr. Putnam observed. The stars, of course, have always been the fish, with a supporting cast of buyers, sellers, men plying back and forth on crate-laden forklifts, and a contingent of hardy aficionados attracted by the drama. In its busiest years, the market was a scene of controlled bedlam, clamoring away overnight while most of the world was unconscious.
 What's left since the market moved last November to Hunts Point in the Bronx has just one use: to inspire nostalgia, with the scarred concrete of the empty trading floor, the red-painted steel piers that hold up the ceiling, the raw air filtering in through the steel gratings, the shadow and roar of the highway. If the Tin Building is indeed a theater, its auditorium is empty. Its stage, the trading floor, is nearly bare, except for a few pieces of eloquent market junk.
 In a glassed-in cashier's booth, a pine-tree air freshener (new car scent) dangled above a calendar showing Nov. 11, 2005, the market's last night on Fulton Street. On the grimy plywood counter were two dried-up rubber stamps, one belonging to a trucker, the other to the Beyer Lightning Fish Company (still operating in the Bronx). On cold nights in the past, Mr. Putnam recalled, a guard could be seen huddled in this booth before trading began, reading a newspaper by the light of a single bulb.
 Every few feet, drain holes pierce the floor, where the ice that chilled the fish wound up when it melted. Lift a drain cover, and dark water ripples a couple of feet under the floor (the building rests on piers in the river); the smell is of sea air and tar. When the market was still running, Mr. Putnam recalled, a worker used to fish -- successfully -- through one of these drains. 
 Just one sign remains, reading ''Lockwood & Winant,'' hand-painted on the slat of a fish crate with a dried-out swordfish tail fastened above it. A few chains, which once held scales, dangle from the ceiling. A rusty sharpening steel lies on a counter, an empty packet of rat and mouse bait on the floor (the old market was famed for the size and brazenness of its rodents). 
 A few more stray tools can be found in the workers' lockers on the third floor, including an instant-read thermometer and a grappling hook, the universal tool of the trade, which could grab a fish by the jaw or the gill cage, open a box, or serve occasionally as a weapon, a reminder that the market has a rough history.
 A rusting machine juts out from a concrete-block shed attached to the northern end of the Tin Building, looking like a gigantic insect trying to crawl away. Two brothers, known by the workers as Tommy Ice and Bobby Ice, used the contraption to make the shaved ice they sold for the fish bins.
 Hauntingly, a faint fish aroma still hovers over the place. Mr. Putnam speculates that the wooden surfaces of doors and fittings may have absorbed the smell over the years, giving a whiff of it back when the atmospheric conditions are right.
 Until the day it closed, the old fish market remained a technological laggard: a survival from the harbor of nearly 200 years before, when fishing smacks arrived at the wharves under sail, and the fish waited in fish cars -- slatted crates whose tops floated on the water, keeping them alive until they were ready to be sold. As late the early 1900's, fishmongers could still be heard quoting prices in shillings. But the fish cars disappeared in the 1940's, victims of river pollution, and by 1970 trucks and planes were transporting 98 percent of the fish. The last boat, a scalloper named Felicia, took its final cargo to the market in 1976.
 In 1995, in the aftermath of a Giuliani administration crackdown on racketeering in the market, arsonists set the Tin Building on fire, destroying its two top floors. Though they were rebuilt, merchants had already proposed a new market in Brooklyn. In the fall of 1999, citing ever stricter federal sanitary regulations, the city announced the move to Hunts Point.
 Immense, hangarlike, surrounded by fences and windswept parking lots, the new market feels like an Antarctic outpost. Inside it could always be noon, even at 4 a.m., when trading reaches its peak. Fishmongers rattle around in the cavernous space, surrounded by stark white walls, frigid air, floods of cold bluish light pouring down from the roof, and a row of fluorescent-lit signs, all carrying an identical bold, blocky typeface.
 SEVERAL firms have closed, and others are rumored to be in trouble. In some eyes, the new market is nothing more than a barren wasteland, but others are more upbeat, among them David Samuels, owner of the Blue Ribbon Fish Company, who called the experience of moving to the new market ''awesome -- like trading an old '54 Falcon for a Lexus.'' 
 And at least one of the old market's famous characters, Shopping Bag Annie, somehow made her way to the Bronx. A vivid-eyed octogenarian, she sells scarves, grappling hooks, knives and other staples from her granny cart. She weaves among the electric minitrucks that zoom and whir along the blacktop, shouting her trademark ''Woo-HOO! Woo-HOO!'' 
 But there's little such color left at Fulton and South Streets. For now, it's desolate, though preliminary plans are under way to refurbish the Tin Building. And an annex to the north, built in 1939, may be razed to make a new home for the Drawing Center, after the collapse of a plan to relocate to ground zero.
 From the street, you can still see an apparent relic of the past: a jumble of fish crates piled haphazardly on the floor. But as staff members of the Economic Development Corporation pointed out, these weren't authentic relics, simply leftover movie props -- for a fish-market scene that had recently been filmed there.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE OLD -- The 1907 Tin Building, once the market's heart.
 THE NEW -- The younger building, at left, that housed the market may find its days numbered. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial

ORGANIZATION: Fulton Fish Market (NYC)

PERSON: James Putnam; Mark Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



551 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2679 words

HEADLINE: Battle in Black and White

BYLINE: By AMY FOX. 
Amy Fox, a writer whose works include the script for the 2005 movie ''Heights,'' is writing a screenplay about the integration of Stuyvesant Town.

 BODY:
WHEN I was a kid, we visited my grandparents in Stuyvesant Town nearly every year. The apartment where my mother had grown up was filled with towers of books and foreign treasures, including a Torah scroll rescued from the Holocaust. I used to fall asleep on a sagging cot listening to footsteps and voices passing underneath my window, something impossible in the quiet Boulder, Colo., neighborhood where I lived. When I dreamed of city life, I saw those red brick structures, the tiled kitchen where my grandmother made meatloaf, the paved circle where we used to wait for my grandfather to pull up in his powder-blue Dodge Dart. 
 It was hard to imagine my respectable grandma, Diana Miller, her waist-length hair piled on top of her head, or my grandpa, Leo, with his dignified vests, barricading themselves in those same buildings to avoid being put out on the street. But that is what happened in the winter of 1952, when my grandparents were among those white tenants who stood at the forefront of the battle to integrate the housing complex where they lived. 
Walking through the brick towers and grassy lawns of Stuyvesant Town three years ago, I stopped in the center of the complex to photograph a plaque, dated 1947, honoring Stuyvesant Town's creator, Frederick Ecker, who ''with the vision of experience and the energy of youth conceived and brought into being this project, and others like it, that families of moderate means might live in health, comfort and dignity in parklike communities, and that a pattern might be set of private enterprise productively devoted to public service.'' 
 My grandfather had photographed the same plaque 50 years earlier. But neither of us could take its words too seriously. We both knew that for a family to be offered ''health, comfort and dignity,'' the family had to be white.
 My grandparents were among 200,000 applicants for the new residential project built in 1947 on the far East Side of Manhattan to offer World War II veterans affordable housing at a monthly rent of $14 to $17 a room. Five years later, they were among 35 families who were nearly evicted from their apartments after fighting their landlord -- Metropolitan Life Insurance -- over its official policy of rejecting the applications of black veterans. When my grandparents managed to renew their lease, they proudly hung their pale green eviction notice on the wall, with a tiny slip of paper in a corner of the frame bearing the words: ''Without Struggle There Is No Progress -- Frederick Douglass.''
 The eviction notice impressed me. Many of my friends were embarrassed by their grandparents' racist attitudes, and I was pleased that mine had fought for civil rights. Unfortunately, I was more proud than curious. I never asked for the whole story, and a few years ago, when I began working on a screenplay about the events, my grandparents were no longer alive. 
 I was left with my mother's spotty memories of events that happened when she was 5. She remembers walking to school with a black child whose family had moved into Stuyvesant Town. She remembers her father joining other former servicemen standing guard outside the black family's door, ready if necessary to defend the apartment against the landlord. She remembers that when the situation got ugly, she and her baby brother, named Frederick Douglass Miller, in honor of the great abolitionist leader, were sent to their aunt's house on Long Island.
 In the cavernous reading room at the New York Public Library, I began slowly filling in the gaps. I learned that my grandparents had been members of the Tenants Committee to End Discrimination in Stuyvesant Town, a grass-roots organization formed in 1948. Stuyvesant Town and the adjacent Peter Cooper Village had been built as part of an ambitious slum-clearance project in which bulldozers tore through 18 blocks south of East 23rd Street to create a solution to the city's postwar housing shortage. But MetLife refused to consider the applications of three black veterans who sought apartments. When these veterans sued the company, a group of Stuyvesant Town residents, including my grandparents, united to support their cause. 
 Frederick Ecker, chairman of Metropolitan Life Insurance, maintained that as a private landlord, he had the right to define his own criteria for selecting tenants. But although Stuyvesant Town was owned by a private corporation, the city had given MetLife significant tax breaks and financial support. Thus black New Yorkers were paying taxes to support a housing complex they were not allowed to live in.
 In public statements, Mr. Ecker described his motives as economic; he said he feared that integrating the complex would lower its value and its appeal to investors. He also said that black applicants could live in Riverton, a MetLife housing complex a few miles to the north on the Harlem River Drive. But Riverton was hardly Stuyvesant Town. While MetLife advertised Stuyvesant Town, with nearly 9,000 apartments, as a ''suburb in the city,'' James Baldwin, writing about Riverton a decade later, called Harlem's housing projects as ''cheerless as a prison.'' In Esquire in 1960, he wrote that blacks hated Riverton ''long before the builders arrived.''
 ''They began hating it,'' he wrote, ''at about the time people began moving out of their condemned houses to make room for this additional proof of how thoroughly the white world despised them.'' 
 The Stuyvesant Town tenants committee, with 1,800 members, was made up of the families of veterans who believed that after fighting a war for justice overseas, they could not ignore injustice at home. ''The courage and sharpshooting of a Negro machine gunner saved my life with a dozen other white G.I.'s,'' my grandfather had written in a pamphlet issued by the committee. ''Can any one of us say he can't be my neighbor? I can't.'' Surveys of residents conducted by the tenants committee showed that two-thirds of Stuyvesant Town's 25,000 tenants opposed MetLife's exclusionary policy.
 In August 1949, the committee invited a black family, the Hendrixes, to move from their overpriced, rat-infested apartment in Harlem into the Stuyvesant Town apartment of Jesse Kessler while Mr. Kessler was on vacation. When he returned, the Hendrixes were moved to another Stuyvesant Town apartment, this one the home of Lee Lorch, a vice chairman of the tenants committee and a mathematics professor who was leaving the city to accept a teaching position at Pennsylvania State College. 
 The previous April, Dr. Lorch had been abruptly dismissed, without explanation, from his job at City College of New York, and many colleagues, neighbors and journalists believed that the firing was linked to his leadership on the tenants committee.
 Hardine Hendrix, an art student who worked by day in a warehouse, along with his wife, Raphael, and their 6-year-old son, Hardine Jr., stayed in these apartments as guests. The young couple did not pay the $76 monthly rent because it was illegal for Stuyvesant Town tenants to sublet. Although the Hendrixes encountered hostile remarks and threatening telephone calls from some neighbors, others were welcoming; one woman apparently introduced them to gefilte fish.

A Landlord Versus the People
 While my mother and Hardine Jr. were traipsing through the 12 Stuyvesant Town playgrounds, the battle continued to play out in the courtroom. The black veterans suing MetLife were backed by 29 civic organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union. But Justice Felix C. Bevenga of the New York Supreme Court ruled for MetLife, remarking that ''housing accommodation is not a recognized civil right.'' Appeals did not succeed, and in June 1950, the United States Supreme Court declined to review the case.
 The controversy also spilled into City Hall. Councilmen Ben Davis and Stanley Isaacs introduced a bill that would make discrimination on the basis of race illegal in housing projects financially supported by the city. The bill, which would have applied retroactively, was intended to take aim at Stuyvesant Town. 
 Working behind the scenes, Mayor William O'Dwyer tried to delay action on the legislation, offering instead to facilitate direct negotiations with Mr. Ecker. But although MetLife eventually offered to admit a few token black families, the company refused to change its tenant selection policy. The company also informed 35 families who belonged to the tenants committee, my grandparents among them, that their leases would not be renewed. Dr. Lorch's 6-year-old daughter, Alice, even received an individual notice with her name on it. 
 Nineteen of the families decided to fight to keep their apartments. They printed a flier whose cover bore the words ''a landlord vs. the people'' over a black-and-white photograph of the 19; the picture showed my grandfather with his arm around my mother, Betty, a child standing proudly in her short plaid coat. ''For the first time in American history,'' the flier proclaimed, ''a landlord has tried to evict citizens from their homes for their social beliefs.'' 
 My grandfather kept the flier, along with a typewritten ''list of evictees'' compiled by the tenants committee. The names of couples are listed with their addresses, and next to each one, my grandfather had scrawled the words ''stay'' or ''go.'' Next to his own name, he had written the word ''stay.''
 The city marshal ordered the targeted tenants to be out of their apartments by 9 o'clock on the morning of Jan. 17, 1952, and hired a moving company to drag their furniture onto the street. In response, the families barricaded their doors. They sent their children to stay with relatives and passed baskets of food from window to window with ropes. 
 As word of the evictions spread, civic groups and labor unions called for a demonstration of support for the tenants. Hundreds of New Yorkers picketed at the complex, at City Hall and outside MetLife's headquarters at 1 Madison Avenue, where protesters held a round-the-clock vigil that lasted three days. 
 Fifteen hours before the city marshal's deadline, MetLife announced that it would postpone the evictions and agreed to negotiate. There followed three days of intense talks, and on the night of Jan. 20, MetLife agreed to drop the eviction proceedings. Several families who were regarded as especially problematic, including Dr. Lorch's, agreed to leave ''voluntarily.'' In return, MetLife rented an apartment to the Hendrixes.

Black and Red
 A photo of Hardine Jr. and my mother, holding hands and grinning, lay in a jumble of other grainy photos under glass on my grandparents' coffee table. My mother saved it, her only souvenir from her childhood friendship. Hardine Jr. was killed in a car accident, years before his parents died, according to Dr. Lorch, who stayed in touch with the family. 
 I first contacted Dr. Lorch, now 90 and on the faculty of York University in Toronto, three years ago. Oh, yes, he assured me, he remembered my grandparents.
 When I asked what had happened to him after he left the Hendrixes in his apartment and accepted the position at Penn State, he referred me to the front page of The New York Times of April 10, 1950, which reported that the college's officials had declined to renew his appointment, explaining that his decision to let the Hendrixes live in his apartment was ''extreme, illegal and immoral and damaging to the public relations of the college.'' 
 Dr. Lorch also told me that Albert Einstein, whom he did not know personally, had written to Penn State, ''supporting the position I had taken and calling upon them to reinstate me.''
 Dr. Lorch's political activism continued to hurt his career, he said. After being repeatedly blacklisted by universities and having dynamite placed in his garage, he moved to Canada.
 During our conversation, he recalled that one Penn State official asked him directly if he was a Communist. It was not an unexpected question. Many members of the tenants committee were, in fact, Communists, and Councilman Davis, a sponsor of the anti-discrimination bill, was the council's Communist Party representative. 
 The Cold War was brewing during the Stuyvesant Town controversy, and tenants faced more anti-Communist sentiment than blatant racism. Linking the protesting tenants to Communism was a way to discredit them. Or, as Dr. Lorch remembered an N.A.A.C.P. official commenting wryly, ''It's bad enough being black without being Red.''

A World They Believed In
 The eviction controversy had dragged out over two years. During that time the City Council housing bill making discrimination illegal in Stuyvesant Town was reintroduced. Although the bill passed, in February 1951, Stuyvesant Town did not integrate quickly or completely. In the following decades, potential black tenants did not necessarily feel welcome there. MetLife declined to provide statistics on the number of black tenants currently holding leases. Richard Shea, a spokesman for the Stuyvesant Town property, said he had no comment on the matter.
 ''My perception,'' said Leo Stevens, an African-American who has lived in Stuyvesant Town for 33 years and raised five children there, ''is that excluding celebrities and black immigrants or foreigners, the number of 'average, everyday African-Americans' has been relatively static over the last 30 years. Our sparse number, spread out over this huge complex, makes it difficult to be accurate.'' 
 Mr. Stevens, a retired health care executive, does not attribute this situation to the kind of blatant discrimination practiced at Stuyvesant Town by MetLife in the past. Until recently, the complex's mostly rent-stabilized apartments experienced little turnover.
 These days, the community is being transformed by MetLife's decision five years ago to renovate newly vacated apartments into luxury units with granite countertops and Kohler faucets, and rent them at market rates: about $3,000 for a two-bedroom apartment. 
 ''With rent stabilization, ethnic and class integration was possible if there was ever the will,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''But now I don't see any hope for meaningful integration.''
 Most current Stuyvesant Town residents I've interviewed know almost nothing of the complex's troubled racial history. The plaque my grandfather and I photographed was removed from the grounds in the last year or so. As a friend who lives in Stuyvesant Town dryly points out, a market-rate housing complex can't advertise itself as a place for ''families of moderate means.'' My grandfather would shake his head.
 When I walk around Stuyvesant Town these days, it is a place soaked in imagination and memory. I wandered these paths with my grandparents 20 years ago, and since then I have wandered them again in my mind, tracking elusive fictional characters from my screenplay whom I have come to know as well as I know my own family. Here are the cold metal monkey bars where I played as a kid, where my 5-year-old mom and the real-life Hardine Jr. played. Here is the daffodil-lined fountain where all of us tossed pennies and wishes.
 Though my grandfather, a published author, was a fan of the ice-skating epic I wrote at the age of 11, he did not live to see my more mature work. I don't know what he and my grandmother would have thought of my dramatizing the Stuyvesant Town story. My characters are not directly based on my grandparents, although their memoryand spirit were never far away as I wrote.
 Recently my family was viewing eight-millimeter movies my grandfather had taken, waxing nostalgic about my mother's childhood. Suddenly the footage shifted to a group of black and white children playing together on the Stuyvesant Town monkey bars as their parents looked on. 
 On the movie screen, it's just a few minutes of flickering film showing children in a playground, a glimpse of possibility. Then a card appears on the screen, with the date, 10-52, and fat letters my grandfather had drawn in red pen: ''As It Should Be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE BARRICADES -- The author's mother with her friend and neighbor Hardine Hendrix Jr. at Stuyvesant Town in the early 1950's. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 COMFORT AND DIGNITY -- Neighbors with Raphael Hendrix, top, who moved into Stuyvesant Town with her husband and their son in August 1949. A plaque, center, honored Frederick Ecker, Stuyvesant Town's creator. Above, the pamphlet that was a call to arms. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); EVICTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); HOLOCAUST (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); VETERANS (72%); RELIGION (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%) Housing; Evictions; Discrimination; Blacks; Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: Amy Fox; leo miller; diana miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



552 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: The Right Start

BYLINE: By Richard W. Riley. 
Richard W. Riley was the United States secretary of education from 1993 to 2001.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ON March 13, the New York State Assembly recommended an additional $100 million in new money for the state's pre-kindergarten program. That means at least some state leaders in Albany have gotten their priorities right.
 New York took a bold step when it established the Universal Pre-Kindergarten program in 1997 with the goal of making pre-K available to every 4-year-old child. That breakthrough policy made New York one of a few states to call for pre-K for all children. As secretary of education at the time, I was very proud of that commitment.
 Today, however, the New York pre-K program serves just a quarter of the state's 4-year-olds and struggles to do even that. The problem is that although the 1997 legislation called for phased-in financing of $500 million, the input of money stalled at $201.3 million in 2001. 
 The State Assembly budget proposal approved earlier this month puts the state back on track by calling for the $100 million. I urge the State Senate and the governor to match that proposal. 
 Policymakers around the country are watching the drama unfold in Albany. That's because pre-kindergarten is not just an education issue for New York, but for all public educators and citizens. Indeed, it's a matter of vital economic import. Champions of education reform like the Nobel laureate and economist James Heckman, Bill Gates and the National Governors Association all highlight pre-kindergarten as a key part of that effort.
 A New York-specific economic study, ''The Pre-K Payback'' by Clive Belfield, who is now a professor at Queens College, City University of New York, illustrated this point more emphatically. The economic research found that providing pre-kindergarten to every New York family would enable the state to save $555 million to $828 million over the course of children's kindergarten through 12th grade educations. These savings result from, among other things, reduced need for remedial services and reduced grade repetition. 
 Mr. Belfield's study focuses on the savings to New York school districts, but research conducted all over the country has shown that investment in high-quality preschool programs more than pays its way -- leading to welfare reduction, less crime and increased high-school graduation rates -- with a return for taxpayers of $7 to every $1 invested. A quality pre-K program requires significant investment up front, but the benefits realized by the nation, the state, its education system and its families are far greater. 
 As the State Board of Regents recognized in its new early childhood education policy statement released in January, ''New York's early childhood system must close the achievement gap earlier'' and pre-kindergarten services must be part of public education in the 21st century. That is why it is so urgent that New York make a big new investment in pre-kindergarten now. 
 The fate of the pre-kindergarten investment and the children it could serve now lies in the New York State Senate. I urge the Senate to match or exceed the $100 million investment that has already cleared the Assembly. Too many New York children still don't have the opportunity for a high quality pre-K education.
 As for critics who say that New York cannot afford to expand pre-K, I say that the state no longer can afford not to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); FAMILY (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Housing; Travel and Vacations; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%) Steven Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



553 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: In Fair Haven, Moving On

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

DATELINE: FAIR HAVEN 

 BODY:
WINIFRED ROBARDS has lived in a modest house on the banks of the Navesink River here for 87 years. Her family has been here since 1855, the year her great- grandfather, a free black man named Charles Williams, built the home. 
 But these days, Mrs. Robards says she is not sure how much longer she can stay. She is 90 now and might need to move into an assisted-living facility. Then there is the problem of her property taxes -- $24,000 a year -- not easy to come up with, especially on a fixed income.
 Some day, probably in the not-too-distant future, Mrs. Robards or her two sons will sell the light blue wood-shingled Colonial that looks out on one of the borough's many boat launches. Then it is likely to be torn down and replaced by a home easily twice its size. In 2005 alone, according to town records, 10 houses were torn down and 13 new ones went up. 
 A new home, sitting on one of the most desirable spots in Monmouth County, directly across the Navesink from Jon Bon Jovi's mansion, will be worth millions. An affluent family -- in all likelihood a white one -- will move in and another important piece of the long and rich history of one of the most important black enclaves in New Jersey will have fallen. 
 In 1960, when Fair Haven had a population of 5,678, there were 448 black people living here, most of them middle class and many of them descendants of freed slaves who helped settle Fair Haven. By 2000, according to the United States Census Bureau, the borough, which had grown slightly, to 5,937, had just 243 black residents.
 Over the last six years, the black population has probably shrunk even more. 
 ''The town has become less diverse,'' said Mayor Joseph J. Szostak, who noted that sharply rising property taxes ''are a real problem.''
 '' I wish I knew what to say to the black folks who are moving away,'' Mr. Szostak added. ''I am on a fixed income myself, and I don't know how much longer I can afford to live here.''
 Indeed, black Fair Haven is fading away, as an aging population, whose offspring have largely moved away, wrestles with high property taxes and the increasing affluence of a town where few people, black or white, can afford to live.
 ''It would make me very sad to no longer have this family live here,'' said Mrs. Robards, who moved into the Williams house, then inhabited by her grandparents, when she was 3 years old. ''The lawyer told me someone would come in and tear the house down and build a house more suited to the river. You feel so connected to a house when you've lived in it for so long.''
 There was a time, more than a decade ago, when Mrs. Robards's house would have sold for a reasonable price to a family that would have been happy to live in it. But Fair Haven has changed drastically in recent years.
 In 1992, direct ferry service from nearby Highlands and Atlantic Highlands to Lower Manhattan was initiated, making this obscure town an attractive place for wealthy Wall Street people to buy their sprawling slice of the American dream. Once a working-class town, Fair Haven has become a prototypical affluent white suburb, filled with S.U.V.'s and million-dollar homes.

Relics of a Bygone Era
 ''This is the perfect gentrification storm,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, who is an expert on the changing demographics of the state. ''Fair Haven is between Rumson, historically a powerful home of elite, and Red Bank. Red Bank had been a fading manufacturing market center that has, all of a sudden, been reborn as a hot place. With Fair Haven sitting between those two towns, it was almost foreordained that it would gentrify.'' 
 Sitting in her home -- a relic of Fair Haven's bygone era -- Mrs. Robards said she believed that Charles Williams had worked on an estate in Rumson, but she was not sure why he had settled in Fair Haven. It might have been that he felt comfortable in what was one of the centers of black life in 19th-century New Jersey.
 Although not nearly as much a part of the economy or culture as it was in Southern states, slavery was visible throughout much of New Jersey before it was abolished in 1846. According to the educational Web site slaveryinamerica.org, the earliest written record of enslaved Africans in New Jersey was in the mid-1600's, when 60 to 70 slaves worked on a plantation in Shrewsbury, a town that then encompassed the existing borough of Fair Haven. 
 One of the first ironworks in the New World was built nearby in 1665 on the Pine Brook River in what is now Tinton Falls, according to the Historic Preservation Commission of Tinton Falls, and 70 to 80 slaves were brought in as laborers. A mix of slaves and freemen continued to produce the iron until 1844, when technological advances rendered the ironworks obsolete. 
 It is believed that blacks first settled in Fair Haven because land was available there at reasonable prices and was near Rumson, where many of them worked on the estates of some of New Jersey's wealthiest families. One such estate was owned by Gen. Clinton Bowen Fisk, who, after the Emancipation Proclamation, was Abraham Lincoln's choice to run the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands.
 ''They had to live somewhere,'' Mr. Hughes said, ''and they probably weren't welcome in Rumson.''

Separate Churches and Schools
 According to research by Timothy McMahon, a Fair Haven town historian who died last year, the first black church in Fair Haven opened in 1833, 28 years before the start of the Civil War. By 1858, Fair Haven had a second black church and a ''Free African School.'' Fair Haven's second black church, renamed the Fisk Chapel when it was rebuilt in 1882, was paid for by General Fisk and is still open today.
 These days, on most Sundays there are no more than 35 people attending services at Fisk Chapel, though it was not always that way. ''It's sad to see,'' said 99-year-old Ethel Armstrong. ''Even in 1974, when the new church was built, we had a large congregation. There are so few people coming now.''
 The school attended by the town's black students from kindergarten through eighth grade, eventually known as the Fisk School, was still in operation until the mid-1940's, and many of the borough's remaining black residents studied there. 
 ''We were resigned to it, going to our own school,'' said 74-year-old Arthur Berry, a lifelong Fair Haven resident. ''As far as education goes, we had no problems when we moved on and went to the integrated high school in Rumson. We were ahead of the white kids. That's because our teachers were better than theirs.'' 
 Raymond Taylor, 83, who also attended Fisk, and other longtime residents said that although blacks and whites went their separate ways in the past, there was never any racial tension or any reason for the blacks to feel uncomfortable.
 ''Blacks have a habit of sticking together in their community, whether they look poor or what,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''They carry their history with them. There are very few whites in this town who can track their history back in the town like the blacks can.'' 
 Mr. Taylor came to Fair Haven at the age of 2 to be raised by his aunt, Ella Bailey, who he said was the first black graduate from Red Bank High School, in 1882. He said his ancestors were former slaves from Manalapan who bought land in Fair Haven in the 1800's. 
 Today, Mr. Taylor and his wife are the last African-Americans living on a street that used to be predominantly black. With his children no longer living in town, his house, which has been in his family for more than 115 years, is another that may eventually be torn down.
 Jesse Harris, 70, and his wife, Marcelline, 65, live on Browns Lane, a one-block-long street toward the east side of town. Mrs. Harris is a direct descendant of the Brown family, for whom the street is named. The Browns settled on the street in the 1830's and took up virtually the entire block for nearly 130 years. Now, just two homes on the block are occupied by black families.
 Members of the Brown family and other black residents of Fair Haven clashed with the forces of change in 1999 when a white family was permitted to build over what many believed was once a black cemetery.
 ''There was quite a bit of outrage over this and a number of heated discussions with the zoning commission down at town hall,'' Mr. Harris said. ''We couldn't stop the steamrollers from rolling in. It's done now. There's nothing we can do about it.''

A Vanishing Culture
 The Historical Association of Fair Haven was determined to prevent a similar fate from befalling the original Fisk Chapel, which opened in 1882 and was the primary black church in town and the center of black social life. In 1974, the church became too small for its sizable congregation, and a new Fisk Chapel was built.
 The borough took over the old chapel, renamed it Bicentennial Hall and used it for about 25 years as a community center before closing it. With the building vacant and in disrepair, the Borough Council was prepared to demolish it despite its place on the state and national registers of historic places. 
 ''I'm not sure how much the commission cared about its historical significance,'' said Pat Drummond, president of the Historical Association. ''They just saw this as on opportunity to make a quick buck for the town.''
 But members of the Historical Society successfully fought the move, and have raised $400,000 for the building's renovation, which could begin this year.
 It was a significant victory, but not something that can reverse an inexorable trend. Fair Haven is moving on, and its black residents, though disappointed, are largely resigned to the situation. Among those who remain, there is little anger or finger-pointing.
 Harold Albert was born in Fair Haven 77 years ago and has lived here his entire life, with the exception of the 10 years he spent in Tinton Falls. His house was built in 1865 by his great uncle Nathan Williams, the son of Charles Williams, and descendants of the Williams family have lived in it ever since. 
 Because the house is not on the river it is worth less than Mrs. Robards's house, and the property taxes are not quite as exorbitant. Still, they are enough that Mr. Albert and his wife, Jeanette, say they will eventually have to move.
 ''Yes, it's upsetting to me that our black culture is disappearing,'' Mr. Albert said. ''There's nothing that can be done about it now. I pay $8,000 a year in property taxes, and I'm retired and on a fixed income. That's hard to afford. I've always wanted to die in this house. I don't think that's going to happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The home of Winifred Robards was built by her great-grandfather in 1855. Julia Albert, above, her grandmother, raised her in it. (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 Winifred Robards, 90, of Fair Haven, fears that she or her two sons may have to sell the home where she has lived since the age of 3, when her mother died. (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1)Map of New Jersey shows the location of Fair Haven. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); TRENDS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (71%); CENSUS (67%); AGING TRENDS (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (56%); AGING (50%) Blacks; Social Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (50%) Bill Finley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Fair Haven (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



554 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF: INDIAN RESERVATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Grocery Chain Sues Over Cigarette Sales

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

 BODY:
Claiming that the two Indian nations in Suffolk County are engaged in the illegal sale of untaxed cigarettes to non-Indian customers, a supermarket chain filed a racketeering lawsuit against the nations and their senior officials in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on Monday. 
 The chain, Gristede's Foods, contends in the suit that reservation leaders and smoke shop operators at the Poospatuck Reservation in Mastic and the Shinnecock Reservation in Southampton have spawned a ''thriving black market'' through the sale of low-cost cigarettes. The suit also contends that the trafficking finances gangs, organized crime and terrorist groups.
 Gristede's, which has more than 45 groceries and drugstores in New York and on Long Island, also charges the two state-recognized Indian nations with false advertising and unfair competition. The company contends that it has lost up to $20 million in tobacco sales to discount Indian vendors over four years.
 Gristede's seeks an injunction barring the sales and damages of $60 million under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
 Harry Wallace, the owner of a smoke shop on the Poospatuck Reservation and the chief of the Unkechaugs in Mastic, called the lawsuit a ''headline-grabbing P.R. ploy'' and said he was considering a variety of responses ''to these defamatory accusations that we are criminals and terrorists.''
 Lance Gumbs, a Shinnecock smoke shop operator who is also named in the suit, said it was ''an attack on Indian people.'' 
 Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., whose district includes both reservations, called the terrorism charge ridiculous. 
 The lawsuit came shortly after a decision by the State Taxation and Finance Department to postpone enforcement of a law that prohibits wholesale dealers from selling untaxed tobacco or motor fuel to tribal merchants in New York. 
 MARY REINHOLZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); TOBACCO STORES (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SMOKING (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Smoking and Tobacco; Suits and Litigation; Racketeering and Racketeers; Poospatuck Indians; Shinnecock Indians

COMPANY: GRISTEDE'S FOODS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%) Gristede's Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

PERSON: Mary Reinholtz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



555 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: The Right Start

BYLINE: By Richard W. Riley. 
Richard W. Riley was the United States secretary of education from 1993 to 2001.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
ON March 13, the New York State Assembly recommended an additional $100 million in new money for the state's pre-kindergarten program. That means at least some state leaders in Albany have gotten their priorities right.
 New York took a bold step when it established the Universal Pre-Kindergarten program in 1997 with the goal of making pre-K available to every 4-year-old child. That breakthrough policy made New York one of a few states to call for pre-K for all children. As secretary of education at the time, I was very proud of that commitment.
 Today, however, the New York pre-K program serves just a quarter of the state's 4-year-olds and struggles to do even that. The problem is that although the 1997 legislation called for phased-in financing of $500 million, the input of money stalled at $201.3 million in 2001. 
 The State Assembly budget proposal approved earlier this month puts the state back on track by calling for the $100 million. I urge the State Senate and the governor to match that proposal. 
 Policymakers around the country are watching the drama unfold in Albany. That's because pre-kindergarten is not just an education issue for New York, but for all public educators and citizens. Indeed, it's a matter of vital economic import. Champions of education reform like the Nobel laureate and economist James Heckman, Bill Gates and the National Governors Association all highlight pre-kindergarten as a key part of that effort.
 A New York-specific economic study, ''The Pre-K Payback'' by Clive Belfield, who is now a professor at Queens College, City University of New York, illustrated this point more emphatically. The economic research found that providing pre-kindergarten to every New York family would enable the state to save $555 million to $828 million over the course of children's kindergarten through 12th grade educations. These savings result from, among other things, reduced need for remedial services and reduced grade repetition. 
 Mr. Belfield's study focuses on the savings to New York school districts, but research conducted all over the country has shown that investment in high-quality preschool programs more than pays its way -- leading to welfare reduction, less crime and increased high-school graduation rates -- with a return for taxpayers of $7 to every $1 invested. A quality pre-K program requires significant investment up front, but the benefits realized by the nation, the state, its education system and its families are far greater. 
 As the State Board of Regents recognized in its new early childhood education policy statement released in January, ''New York's early childhood system must close the achievement gap earlier'' and pre-kindergarten services must be part of public education in the 21st century. That is why it is so urgent that New York make a big new investment in pre-kindergarten now. 
 The fate of the pre-kindergarten investment and the children it could serve now lies in the New York State Senate. I urge the Senate to match or exceed the $100 million investment that has already cleared the Assembly. Too many New York children still don't have the opportunity for a high quality pre-K education.
 As for critics who say that New York cannot afford to expand pre-K, I say that the state no longer can afford not to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); FAMILY (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); GRADUATION RATES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education (Pre-School)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%) Richard W Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



556 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: After Katrina, Taking On 'Big Dogs' 

BYLINE: By NANCY DONIGER

 BODY:
JOHN ADRIANI JR., who grew up in Shelton, was drawn to New Orleans by his family. His father, John, was born and raised there, and John Jr. spent summers at his grandparents' home in the city. It probably was no surprise that he ended up attending college in New Orleans, and it probably is no surprise that he now wants to be mayor.
 Unhappy over what he called a lack of progress in rebuilding the city after Hurricane Katrina, he announced this month that he was joining the race. 
''It's a dire situation, and we have to get things done,'' he said on a recent evening while power washing the toilet and shower in his grandparents' former home in the Lakeview neighborhood. The house, which now belongs to his father, is in ruins, and the family is at a loss about whether to rebuild or demolish it.
 ''Nobody knows what's going to happen next,'' he said. ''The people are looking for a voice to stand up for them and take on the big dogs.''
 Mr. Adriani, 34, joins a crowded field that includes the incumbent, C. Ray Nagin; Lt. Gov. Mitch Landrieu; Ron Forman, a civic leader; and about 20 others, all vying in the April 22 vote. If no candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote on April 22, the top two vote getters will compete in a runoff election on May 20.
 The grandson of Dr. John Adriani, a former Bridgeport resident who was head of anesthesiology at Charity Hospital in New Orleans for 35 years, John Jr. remained in the city that he considers his second home after he graduated from Louisiana State University with a history degree. Since then he has worked as a criminal defense paralegal and had planned to apply to law school before Katrina.
 Mr. Adriani grew up on Button Road in Shelton, where his parents still live, and attended St. Joseph High School in Trumbull. He played soccer and was part of a folk group in which he played guitar. He left Shelton in 1989 to go to college.
 Wayne Parent, associate dean and political science professor at the university, said Mr. Adriani, his former student, is a long shot because he was under-funded and not a well-known name. But he said Mr. Adriana was active in the community at the grass-roots level.
 ''He fits the mold as the perfect candidate who should be running as an outsider to bring honesty to government, with no agendas and appealing to the people,'' Dr. Parent said.
 He recalled Mr. Adriani playing host to a social function for the class as a student.
 ''He's the type of guy people like to be around,'' Dr. Parent said.
 Mr. Adriani evacuated his home before the hurricane and went to Baton Rouge. He returned to find the house uninhabitable after being submerged in up to nine feet of water. He has to commute from a Baton Rouge apartment because the contents of the house were destroyed and it has no electricity. 
 He has written a plan on how to rebuild the city and printed 1,000 copies that he distributed in the French Quarter. The plan has since evolved into a 35-page document.
 ''Rebuilding New Orleans is not like assembling a jigsaw puzzle,'' he wrote in the introduction. ''We cannot haphazardly put the pieces together and aspire to have a completed picture when we are finished. Rebuilding New Orleans is a progression of steps; an assembly process where one task must be complete before we consider the next.''
 His parents and three siblings, all of whom live in Connecticut, were surprised to learn that he entered the race, but supported his decision.
 ''He has an interest in New Orleans and a strong desire to do something for the city,'' said his father, John N. Adriani. ''That's why he wants to run for mayor.''
 Nancy Adriani, 89, of Bridgeport, John Jr.'s great-aunt, said she would help him financially if she could afford it. 
 ''He's got guts,'' she said. ''He's never been in politics before, but he has good ideas and a lot of gumption.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Adriani Jr., who grew up in Connecticut, is running for mayor of New Orleans, where his house was submerged by Hurricane Katrina. During a break from gutting it, he did some campaigning. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (76%); WEATHER (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); POLITICS (70%); PARALEGALS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); LAWYERS (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (61%); SOCCER (50%) Elections; Mayors; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Biographical Information

PERSON: john jr adriani; Nancy Doniger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



557 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: EMPTY NEST EGGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Inherit the Wind; There's Little Else Left

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
AS the baby boomers deal with the final days of their aged parents, a question often lurks, sometimes unspoken, in the pragmatic discussions about nursing homes, retirement savings, the future of the family house: After all the living is done, will anything be left over for an inheritance? 
 After all, the evidence shows that baby boomers are going to need it: working Americans are unprepared for their own retirement, economists say. They have little savings of their own, and are facing the possible erosion of Social Security and the limits of company pensions.
While some forecasters still hope that the vast pool of wealth accumulated by the generations born in the first half of last century will prop up the finances of their aging offspring, new statistics provide a starker picture. 
 Though hundreds of billions of dollars are being passed on every year, most elderly Americans can probably forget about passing on a financial lifeline to their children. 
 The latest numbers confirm that a vast majority of baby boomers cannot count on an inheritance to help them out of their jam. Even as the total pile of wealth passed down the generations has increased sharply, the inheritance received by a typical American has declined. The shift can be explained in part by demographics changes, but also by the changing nature of old age (life expectancy has increased) and retirement financing (rather, the lack of it).
 In 2004 median inheritances -- half were bigger and half were smaller -- amounted to about $29,000 in today's money, according to a Federal Reserve analysis of the Survey of Consumer Finances. That is enough for the heirs to buy a new Pontiac Coupe. But for almost all, it is hardly life-changing money.
 Nor are inheritances likely to increase. According to the analysis of the Fed data by Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com, 30 years ago the median inheritance was about $10,000 more, adjusted for inflation. 
 These meager bequests would seem to fly in the face of the huge transfer of wealth making its way down the generations. 
 Yes, big money is being passed down. According to the Fed data, the overall pie of inheritances has grown to nearly $200 billion annually -- more than three times the amount that was passed down in the mid-1970's, after accounting for inflation. Paul Schervish and John Havens of Boston College's Center for Wealth and Philanthropy predict that by midcentury, $25 trillion will be passed from the old to their offspring. 
 But the typical American is seeing little of this wealth. Mr. Schervish and Mr. Havens found that most money would go to a few lucky heirs: 7 percent of the estates would account for half the aggregate bequests. 
 Those heirs are fueling brisk growth in the wealth-management industry, a niche enterprise catering mostly to the rich. 
 ''We are seeing bigger-sized estates,'' said Myra Salzer, president of the Wealth Conservancy in Boulder, Colo., which helps heirs manage their inherited wealth. 
 ''Wealth is just exploding,'' said Daniel FitzPatrick, chief executive of Citigroup Trust, whose clients typically have hundreds of millions of dollars.
 Another study, based on the University of Michigan's Health and Retirement Study, also shows the disparities. Michael D. Hurd and James P. Smith of the RAND Corporation estimated that half of the children of parents born from 1931 to 1947 -- that is, parents who are about 60 to 75 years old -- would inherit less than $19,000, while the top 5 percent would receive at least $237,000.
 In a way, it's puzzling that typical American workers aren't receiving more. Long ago, when workers retired on Social Security and the monthly pension check from their employers, they could expect to die with little more than the house to leave behind. 
 But as the old-fashioned pension has been replaced by savings plans like individual retirement accounts, more people will die with leftover money to pass down the line.
 The median net worth of people 75 and over, the sum of all their assets minus all their debts, grew by nearly $50,000 from 1995 to 2004, to $163,000. In 2004, 35 percent of these senior citizens owned stock, compared with 28 percent nine years earlier. And 85 percent owned their home. 
 That money isn't translating into bigger inheritances partly for reasons of demographics. Boomers must share inheritances with more siblings than the previous generation. 
 Though it may come as a surprise, according to Mr. Zandi, among baby boom families -- with children born from 1945 to 1964 -- there are about 3.5 children per family. That's about one child more than in families from before World War II.And even though the elderly are richer than ever, old age has also gotten longer and much more expensive. 
 For younger senior citizens, this could have a profound impact. Like most Americans his age, Charlie Kelly hopes to leave money behind for his two sons when he dies. The former steelworker, who will turn 65 in April, figures his house in Bethlehem, Pa., will be worth a lot of money. And he and his wife have some $80,000 in the bank. 
 But the total may not make for a very big estate. Though Mr. Kelly and his wife both receive monthly pensions from their former jobs, they dip into their savings to cover vacations and unexpected expenses. And they can both expect to live for quite a bit longer. ''I'm hoping there will be enough left over,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''How much it will be, who knows?'' 
 He can expect to live an additional 17 years, and his wife, another 20 years. Their life expectancies 35 years ago would have been about three years less. And health care costs increase with each passing year. ''Right now we make ends meet,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''But everything goes up every year.'' 
 Mr. Hurd and Mr. Smith of RAND calculated that the average person between 60 and 70 would spend 58 percent of his or her wealth before dying.
 Even though many senior citizens want to keep their homes until they die, many sell, mostly to cover health-related expenses. According to another study by Mr. Hurd, 44 percent of people who owned a house at age 70 will have sold it by age 85. 
 Mr. FitzPatrick at Citigroup said the concern over health costs and other expenses of old age even applies to those worth tens of millions, implausible as this may seem. ''They think, will I outlive my money?'' he said. 
 So as the elderly contemplate their eventual demise, they may gain some comfort knowing that many of their children may one day inherit enough money to enjoy a new Pontiac Coupe. 
 But the best bequest they could leave their children would be a a bit of good advice: save.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about declining inheritances for baby boomers misstated the source of an estimate of the median inheritance in 2004. It was from an analysis of the Survey of Consumer Finances, which is conducted by the Federal Reserve. The analysis was by Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com, not by the Fed.
A chart that made use of the same analysis was credited incompletely. Moody's Economy.com should have been cited along with the Federal Reserve.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Aude Van Ryn)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Low Expectations''A big majority of U.S. households -- 86 percent -- do not expect to receive an inheritance, according to a survey by the Federal Reserve. A look at Americans who do inherit:The total value of all U.S. inheritances has more than tripled ...Graph tracks total value of all U.S. inheritances since 1965.2005: $190... but the value of the median inheritance has fallen ...Graph tracks median inheritance value since 1965.1965: $42,1672005: $29,221... in part because bequeathed wealth is concentrated in a small portion of the population.THE TOP 10 PERCENT2 percent of estates, the richest, were worth $782,300 or more.The next 3 percent of estates were worth $326,000 to $782,300.The next 5 percent of estates were worth $244,600 to $326,000.THE BOTTOM 90 PERCENT40 percent of estates were worth $52,200 to $244,600.20 percent of estates were worth $2,600 to $52,200.30 percent of estates were worth less than $2,600.From a survey of estates left by single people (almost all of whom were surviving spouses), age 70 and up.(Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(Sources by Michael D. Hurd and James P. Smith, RAND Corporation, and National Institute on Aging [size of estates]
 all other data from the Federal Reserve Survey of Consumer Finances)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WILLS (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AGING (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%) Personal Finances; Retirement; Wills and Estates; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



558 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Balancing the Doctor and the Patient 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Peter Salgo argues that ''health care dollars became scarce in the 1980's and 90's.'' But if we look at per capita health spending in constant, inflation-adjusted year 2000 dollars, we see that spending rose from about $2,000 in 1980 to $3,400 in 1990 and to $4,600 in 2000. That is an increase of about 130 percent over two decades. 
 Per capita spending on doctors' services increased even more rapidly, as the doctors' share of total health spending rose from about 19 percent in 1980 to 22 percent in 2000. How can anyone say health care dollars ''grew scarce''?
 Dr. Salgo also says that ''publicly traded H.M.O.'s, for example, began restricting doctors to an average seven-minute 'encounter' with each customer.'' I defy him, or any doctor, to produce a memorandum from an H.M.O. to that effect. 
 During the 1990's, H.M.O.'s did extract discounts from doctors. To keep their income at previous levels, doctors voluntarily shortened visits. The H.M.O.'s were not to blame. 
 Finally, the average length of hospital stays started declining in the mid-1980's, after Medicare began paying hospitals a flat fee for each admission. Hospitals found it profitable to voluntarily reduce the length of stays.

Uwe Reinhardt
Princeton, N.J., March 22, 2006

The writer is a professor of political economy at Princeton University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%) Medicine and Health; Finances

PERSON: Uwe E (Prof) Reinhardt; Peter (Dr) Salgo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



559 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Lincoln's Winning Strategy for 2008

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Let's say you're one of the 36,000 people thinking of running for president in 2008. You're wooing donors (like Zero Mostel in ''The Producers''), rounding up consultants and pretending you respect journalists so they'll give you good press when you need it later on. But in the back of your mind you are wondering: How am I going to inspire a war-weary nation? How am I going to unite a bitterly divided land?
 If you're going to frame a successful campaign in these circumstances, you're going to have to learn from Lincoln, a man who knew about war and division. 
 The Civil War was of course bloodier and more dismal than anything we're facing today. Leadership blunders led to more American deaths in single hours than we've seen during three years in Iraq. Lincoln's opponents argued that the South was too culturally and economically dissimilar to be reconciled with the North, that blacks could not live freely and equally with whites.
 But as the situation grew dire, Lincoln did not scale back his ambitions or grow more ''realistic.'' On the contrary, he enlarged and revolutionized the meaning of the war. He emancipated the slaves. He portrayed the war as a front in a worldwide struggle for liberty.
 ''This kind of response to Southern secession might seem counterintuitive -- to take on more burdens, instead of less, just when the night was darkest,'' Paul Berman has written. But Lincoln understood that the American creed was his strongest weapon. He knew it would attract allies and manpower.
 While never losing sight of the ultimate purpose -- the triumph of freedom -- he pursued his ends with amazing prudence. The historian Allen Guelzo has shown that Lincoln intended to emancipate the slaves from the very first, but he was cautious in the way he proceeded.
 His first inaugural was so full of concessions, it enraged his evangelical allies. He brought men of wildly different opinions and interests into his cabinet, as Doris Kearns Goodwin has reminded us. He sought to eradicate slavery gradually, with compensation for slaveholders, and within the framework of the Constitution. Even when the Emancipation Proclamation came, it was a famously dry, uninspiring document.
 He was guided by a sense that God is self-concealing. Over the long run, the course of providence is toward justice, but the path is mysterious, so a prudent person is ready for setbacks, lulls and ironies. Lincoln could take startling chances -- Emancipation was one -- but he could also wait.
 His brand of ironic, prudent idealism was evident in domestic policy as well. He had a long-range vision of a just society, implied in the Declaration of Independence. The U.S. was to be a land where all people would have ''an open field and a fair chance'' for their ''industry, enterprise and intelligence.'' It would be a land of hard-working people striving to rise and transform themselves. His government did everything it could to enhance social mobility. 
 But in the meantime, he was cautious. He was suspicious of those who tried to divide the nation between the haves and the have-nots, and between natives and immigrants. These sorts of divisions are generally exploited by people trying to get something for nothing. 
 Far from regarding immigrants as culturally alien, Lincoln saw them as a ''replenishing stream.'' They were true Americans, just as if they were ''flesh of the flesh of the men who wrote that Declaration.'' He rejected schemes to give immigrants second-class citizenship. These are the schemes kings are always devising, he argued, products of the ''same old serpent that says you work and I eat, you toil and I will enjoy the fruits of it.''
 The people who run for president in 2008 will find themselves campaigning in a weary nation. They will also confront an old form of multiculturalism that has been given a new life. This is the multiculturalism that puts aside the universal claims of the Declaration of Independence, which Lincoln cherished. Instead, it says, democracy is good for many cultures, but not for Arabs. America has benefited from other immigrants, but not the current wave of Mexicans.
 This is a multiculturalism born of frustration, embraced by people who have been so soured by the course of change that they've given up on the destination.
 The candidates who hope to reinspire such an electorate will have to devise foreign and domestic policies that pursue Lincoln's core goal: ''The theory of our government is universal freedom.'' But they'll have to show they can be prudent in pursuit of that difficult ideal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SLAVERY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); WRITERS (72%); HISTORY (71%); RELIGION (68%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues

PERSON: David Brooks; Abraham (1809-65) Lincoln

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



560 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: A Poverty of the Mind

BYLINE: By Orlando Patterson. 
Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, is the author of ''Rituals of Blood: Consequences of Slavery in Two American Centuries.''

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
SEVERAL recent studies have garnered wide attention for reconfirming the tragic disconnection of millions of black youths from the American mainstream. But they also highlighted another crisis: the failure of social scientists to adequately explain the problem, and their inability to come up with any effective strategy to deal with it. 
 The main cause for this shortcoming is a deep-seated dogma that has prevailed in social science and policy circles since the mid-1960's: the rejection of any explanation that invokes a group's cultural attributes -- its distinctive attitudes, values and predispositions, and the resulting behavior of its members -- and the relentless preference for relying on structural factors like low incomes, joblessness, poor schools and bad housing. 
Harry Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University and a co-author of one of the recent studies, typifies this attitude. Joblessness, he feels, is due to largely weak schooling, a lack of reading and math skills at a time when such skills are increasingly required even for blue-collar jobs, and the poverty of black neighborhoods. Unable to find jobs, he claims, black males turn to illegal activities, especially the drug trade and chronic drug use, and often end up in prison. He also criticizes the practice of withholding child-support payments from the wages of absentee fathers who do find jobs, telling The Times that to these men, such levies ''amount to a tax on earnings.'' 
 His conclusions are shared by scholars like Ronald B. Mincy of Columbia, the author of a study called ''Black Males Left Behind,'' and Gary Orfield of Harvard, who asserts that America is ''pumping out boys with no honest alternative.'' 
 This is all standard explanatory fare. And, as usual, it fails to answer the important questions. Why are young black men doing so poorly in school that they lack basic literacy and math skills? These scholars must know that countless studies by educational experts, going all the way back to the landmark report by James Coleman of Johns Hopkins University in 1966, have found that poor schools, per se, do not explain why after 10 years of education a young man remains illiterate.
 Nor have studies explained why, if someone cannot get a job, he turns to crime and drug abuse. One does not imply the other. Joblessness is rampant in Latin America and India, but the mass of the populations does not turn to crime. 
 And why do so many young unemployed black men have children -- several of them -- which they have no resources or intention to support? And why, finally, do they murder each other at nine times the rate of white youths?
 What's most interesting about the recent spate of studies is that analysts seem at last to be recognizing what has long been obvious to anyone who takes culture seriously: socioeconomic factors are of limited explanatory power. Thus it's doubly depressing that the conclusions they draw and the prescriptions they recommend remain mired in traditional socioeconomic thinking. 
 What has happened, I think, is that the economic boom years of the 90's and one of the most successful policy initiatives in memory -- welfare reform -- have made it impossible to ignore the effects of culture. The Clinton administration achieved exactly what policy analysts had long said would pull black men out of their torpor: the economy grew at a rapid pace, providing millions of new jobs at all levels. Yet the jobless black youths simply did not turn up to take them. Instead, the opportunity was seized in large part by immigrants -- including many blacks -- mainly from Latin America and the Caribbean. 
 One oft-repeated excuse for the failure of black Americans to take these jobs -- that they did not offer a living wage -- turned out to be irrelevant. The sociologist Roger Waldinger of the University of California at Los Angeles, for example, has shown that in New York such jobs offered an opportunity to the chronically unemployed to join the market and to acquire basic work skills that they later transferred to better jobs, but that the takers were predominantly immigrants.
 Why have academics been so allergic to cultural explanations? Until the recent rise of behavioral economics, most economists have simply not taken non-market forces seriously. But what about the sociologists and other social scientists who ought to have known better? Three gross misconceptions about culture explain the neglect. 
 First is the pervasive idea that cultural explanations inherently blame the victim; that they focus on internal behavioral factors and, as such, hold people responsible for their poverty, rather than putting the onus on their deprived environment. (It hasn't helped that many conservatives do actually put forth this view.)
 But this argument is utterly bogus. To hold someone responsible for his behavior is not to exclude any recognition of the environmental factors that may have induced the problematic behavior in the first place. Many victims of child abuse end up behaving in self-destructive ways; to point out the link between their behavior and the destructive acts is in no way to deny the causal role of their earlier victimization and the need to address it. 
 Likewise, a cultural explanation of black male self-destructiveness addresses not simply the immediate connection between their attitudes and behavior and the undesired outcomes, but explores the origins and changing nature of these attitudes, perhaps over generations, in their brutalized past. It is impossible to understand the predatory sexuality and irresponsible fathering behavior of young black men without going back deep into their collective past.
 Second, it is often assumed that cultural explanations are wholly deterministic, leaving no room for human agency. This, too, is nonsense. Modern students of culture have long shown that while it partly determines behavior, it also enables people to change behavior. People use their culture as a frame for understanding their world, and as a resource to do much of what they want. The same cultural patterns can frame different kinds of behavior, and by failing to explore culture at any depth, analysts miss a great opportunity to re-frame attitudes in a way that encourages desirable behavior and outcomes.
 Third, it is often assumed that cultural patterns cannot change -- the old ''cake of custom'' saw. This too is nonsense. Indeed, cultural patterns are often easier to change than the economic factors favored by policy analysts, and American history offers numerous examples. 
 My favorite is Jim Crow, that deeply entrenched set of cultural and institutional practices built up over four centuries of racist domination and exclusion of blacks by whites in the South. Nothing could have been more cultural than that. And yet America was able to dismantle the entire system within a single generation, so much so that today blacks are now making a historic migratory shift back to the South, which they find more congenial than the North. (At the same time, economic inequality, which the policy analysts love to discuss, has hardened in the South, like the rest of America.)
 So what are some of the cultural factors that explain the sorry state of young black men? They aren't always obvious. Sociological investigation has found, in fact, that one popular explanation -- that black children who do well are derided by fellow blacks for ''acting white'' -- turns out to be largely false, except for those attending a minority of mixed-race schools. 
 An anecdote helps explain why: Several years ago, one of my students went back to her high school to find out why it was that almost all the black girls graduated and went to college whereas nearly all the black boys either failed to graduate or did not go on to college. Distressingly, she found that all the black boys knew the consequences of not graduating and going on to college (''We're not stupid!'' they told her indignantly). 
 SO why were they flunking out? Their candid answer was that what sociologists call the ''cool-pose culture'' of young black men was simply too gratifying to give up. For these young men, it was almost like a drug, hanging out on the street after school, shopping and dressing sharply, sexual conquests, party drugs, hip-hop music and culture, the fact that almost all the superstar athletes and a great many of the nation's best entertainers were black. 
 Not only was living this subculture immensely fulfilling, the boys said, it also brought them a great deal of respect from white youths. This also explains the otherwise puzzling finding by social psychologists that young black men and women tend to have the highest levels of self-esteem of all ethnic groups, and that their self-image is independent of how badly they were doing in school.
 I call this the Dionysian trap for young black men. The important thing to note about the subculture that ensnares them is that it is not disconnected from the mainstream culture. To the contrary, it has powerful support from some of America's largest corporations. Hip-hop, professional basketball and homeboy fashions are as American as cherry pie. Young white Americans are very much into these things, but selectively; they know when it is time to turn off Fifty Cent and get out the SAT prep book. 
 For young black men, however, that culture is all there is -- or so they think. Sadly, their complete engagement in this part of the American cultural mainstream, which they created and which feeds their pride and self-respect, is a major factor in their disconnection from the socioeconomic mainstream.
 Of course, such attitudes explain only a part of the problem. In academia, we need a new, multidisciplinary approach toward understanding what makes young black men behave so self-destructively. Collecting transcripts of their views and rationalizations is a useful first step, but won't help nearly as much as the recent rash of scholars with tape-recorders seem to think. Getting the facts straight is important, but for decades we have been overwhelmed with statistics on black youths, and running more statistical regressions is beginning to approach the point of diminishing returns to knowledge. 
 The tragedy unfolding in our inner cities is a time-slice of a deep historical process that runs far back through the cataracts and deluge of our racist past. Most black Americans have by now, miraculously, escaped its consequences. The disconnected fifth languishing in the ghettos is the remains. Too much is at stake for us to fail to understand the plight of these young men. For them, and for the rest of us.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Josh Cochran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); MEN (89%); CHILDREN (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%) Blacks; Children and Youth; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Orlando (Prof) Patterson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



561 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: And in the Freezer Aisle, Cold Cash

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

DATELINE: Yonkers 

 BODY:
SHAUN DERIK, a business banking specialist at a new full-service Citizens bank inside the Cross County mall's Stop & Shop, cruised its aisles last Sunday afternoon wheeling a cart piled with Oreos, lollipops and chocolates. 
 Michelle Blanchard, who was reaching into a freezer case, paused to decline an offer of free candy, citing her diet.
''Listen, if you take one, I promise I won't tell anyone,'' said Mr. Derik, but she held out. 
 ''O.K., well, can you take a flier?''
 ''Yeah, I'll take a flier,'' Ms. Blanchard said, reaching for a leaflet advertising Citizens' certificates of deposits. A few minutes later, in the bakery department, Alan Merenstein took a break from pushing his shopping cart to pick up a cookie for his son and ask about the bank's interest rates. 
 Mr. Derik's branch, one of three county in-store sites taken over by Citizens from the Bank of America, opened in January at the start of the company's 75-office expansion into Stop & Shops in the Hudson Valley and the New York City area. 
 While the bank-inside-the-grocery model may be prevalent in other parts of the country, it has been slower to catch on in Westchester. There are currently almost 8,500 in-store branches nationwide, according to Cliff Davis, president of NCBS, a Memphis-based bank consulting group that specializes in supermarket-based branches.
 Of those, only 10 are in Westchester -- an especially small number given that its real estate is at a premium. Generally, in such developed locations, said Bart Narter, a bank analyst with Celent, a research firm, banks are attracted to supermarkets as a less expensive point of entry.
 By opening within the supermarket, says Tami Gunsch, Citizens' district manager, the bank is able to keep its costs down while working to convert grocery customers into financial clients. ''I'd love to sign them all up, I mean that's the goal,'' said Ms. Gunsch, pointing out that the supermarket draws 20,000 shoppers a week. ''How great would it be if we even had 1 percent of these customers that would consider Citizens Bank their bank? Actually we'd love to have all 20,000 of them, and over time maybe we will.''
 The company first moved into Westchester in 2004, with traditional offices in Yonkers and White Plains. As of this year, in addition to its supermarket-based branch in Yonkers, it has opened two in New Rochelle. Stop & Shop branches are also scheduled for Peekskill, Mount Vernon, Somers, White Plains, Tarrytown, Dobbs Ferry and Ossining, according to Citizens officials.
 Part of the attraction for a bank is that it can open five to seven in-store branches for the same price as one traditional office, Mr. Davis said. A typical bank inside a grocery uses 500 square feet, compared with 3,000 square feet for a free-standing office, he said. In-store banks are especially conducive for companies moving into new territories, he said, because they generate customers.
 ''You are seeing your competitors' customers all the time in a grocery store,'' he said. ''The platform is, you need to get out and promote the bank and let them know you're in the store, and why not be in two places in one time?'' In Yonkers, the bank employees all pull double duty behind the counter and out in the store generating leads. Wearing green Citizens aprons and armed with business cards, they pack grocery bags and carry aisle maps so they can point customers toward whatever they need.
 A potential drawback to the arrangement, according to Mr. Narter of Celent, is that in-store branches don't function as effectively for high-end customers. People with sophisticated banking needs, he said, want to work with specialists not usually available in the supermarket banks.
 One way around that problem, says Joseph R. Ficalora, president of New York Community Bancorp, is to have traditional offices within close proximity. His company runs 42 supermarket branches in the New York City area, including four CFS banks in Westchester Pathmarks. 
 ''There are a large number of people who like to be affiliated with a traditional bank,'' he said, ''but they love the convenience of being in-store. They don't feel diminished by having their bank in the frozen food aisle, because their bank is really the big one on the corner.'' 
 His bank would have liked to open in the local Stop & Shops, Mr. Ficalora said, but couldn't offer as many branches as the Rhode Island-based Citizens, which in June of last year had 1,634 in 13 states, including 508 in-store offices. Starbucks outlets are home to several of the branches. 
 Each of the new Citizens branches in Westchester will have at least one private office in which to discuss complex transactions, said Hal Tovin, a vice president of Citizens Financial Group (owned in turn by the Royal Bank of Scotland). Although Mr. Tovin disputes the notion that in-store branches have limited appeal, he acknowledges that there are some customers who prefer an old-fashioned bank branch. Customarily, he said, Citizens likes to enter an area with in-store branches, and follow them up with traditional offices as they become necessary.
 Last Sunday, David Heim of Yonkers opened an account at the Citizens at Cross County. A Stop & Shop customer for three years, he said, he first noticed the bank the week before. ''I like convenience, and I don't like long lines either,'' he said. ''That's why this place here, I should be able to walk in and walk out.'' 
 If there is a line at the bank counter, he added, ''I'll walk around and spend more money in the store, that's all.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Citizens Bank inside Stop & Shop at Cross County Mall. The bank-inside-the-store idea has been slower to catch on in the county. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BAKERIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Banks and Banking; Food; Supermarkets

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIZENS BANK OF CENTRAL INDIANA (85%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

PERSON: Jeff Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



562 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: The Right Start

BYLINE: By Richard W. Riley. 
Richard W. Riley was the United States secretary of education from 1993 to 2001.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
ON March 13, the New York State Assembly recommended an additional $100 million in new money for the state's pre-kindergarten program. That means at least some state leaders in Albany have gotten their priorities right.
 New York took a bold step when it established the Universal Pre-Kindergarten program in 1997 with the goal of making pre-K available to every 4-year-old child. That breakthrough policy made New York one of a few states to call for pre-K for all children. As secretary of education at the time, I was very proud of that commitment.
 Today, however, the New York pre-K program serves just a quarter of the state's 4-year-olds and struggles to do even that. The problem is that although the 1997 legislation called for phased-in financing of $500 million, the input of money stalled at $201.3 million in 2001. 
 The State Assembly budget proposal approved earlier this month puts the state back on track by calling for the $100 million. I urge the State Senate and the governor to match that proposal. 
 Policymakers around the country are watching the drama unfold in Albany. That's because pre-kindergarten is not just an education issue for New York, but for all public educators and citizens. Indeed, it's a matter of vital economic import. Champions of education reform like the Nobel laureate and economist James Heckman, Bill Gates and the National Governors Association all highlight pre-kindergarten as a key part of that effort.
 A New York-specific economic study, ''The Pre-K Payback'' by Clive Belfield, who is now a professor at Queens College, City University of New York, illustrated this point more emphatically. The economic research found that providing pre-kindergarten to every New York family would enable the state to save $555 million to $828 million over the course of children's kindergarten through 12th grade educations. These savings result from, among other things, reduced need for remedial services and reduced grade repetition. 
 Mr. Belfield's study focuses on the savings to New York school districts, but research conducted all over the country has shown that investment in high-quality preschool programs more than pays its way -- leading to welfare reduction, less crime and increased high-school graduation rates -- with a return for taxpayers of $7 to every $1 invested. A quality pre-K program requires significant investment up front, but the benefits realized by the nation, the state, its education system and its families are far greater. 
 As the State Board of Regents recognized in its new early childhood education policy statement released in January, ''New York's early childhood system must close the achievement gap earlier'' and pre-kindergarten services must be part of public education in the 21st century. That is why it is so urgent that New York make a big new investment in pre-kindergarten now. 
 The fate of the pre-kindergarten investment and the children it could serve now lies in the New York State Senate. I urge the Senate to match or exceed the $100 million investment that has already cleared the Assembly. Too many New York children still don't have the opportunity for a high quality pre-K education.
 As for critics who say that New York cannot afford to expand pre-K, I say that the state no longer can afford not to.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); FAMILY (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); GRADUATION RATES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education (Pre-School)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%) Richard W Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



563 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Vision Takes On Reality as Group Inches Closer to a Stage of Its Own

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
STEVEN AND JILL ABUSCH were hugging like newlyweds as they gazed at their dream house. They saw past the boarded-up windows and the damaged roof to an imagined scene of children singing, dancing and rehearsing in a historic 19th-century house made whole again. 
 On a recent tour of Wildcliff, a once-glorious Gothic Revival house on a windy bluff overlooking Long Island Sound here, the couple talked about their vision, which may not be such a stretch. 
 The City of New Rochelle, which owns the property and is renovating the house, is preparing to turn the building over to the Abusches as a home for the Play Group Theater, a nonprofit theater company for children and teenagers that the couple founded in 1994. The group, which provides classes and puts on plays that involve 150 children each fall and spring, is now based in the White Plains Mall and gives performances around the county. 
 Play Group was recommended to the City as Wildcliff's new occupant after the group submitted a plan for the building to the city in 2003. The plan called for renovating a 100-seat theater fashioned from a stable that was added to the 154-year-old house in the early 1900's. The theater will have to be rebuilt entirely, however; the city recently demolished it after a January windstorm blew in a wall. The theater, as well as the house, had been vacant since Fleetwood Stage moved out last spring after presenting plays at Wildcliff since 1997. Fleetwood was one of six organizations that had submitted proposals to the city for the house.
 Play Group now plans to raise more than a million dollars to rebuild the theater and is negotiating with the city to move into the building once basic structural repairs have been made, as early as fall of 2007. Craig King, the city's commissioner of development, said the city was hoping to get the City Council's approval on April 11 for a plan that would allow Play Group to enter into a short-term licensing agreement to occupy the building. Play Group is also seeking a 30-year lease for the building, which Mr. King said would need special legislation by the New York State Legislature. 
 In 2002, the exterior of Wildcliff was added to the National Register of Historic Places. But the 20-room house, with its distinctive gables and gingerbread features, is in severe disrepair, with crumbling walls, rotting wooden floors and a slate roof that needs replacing. Last winter the pipes froze and water flooded the floors of the building, where Fleetwood operated without heat for many months before moving to Willow Towers, an assisted-living complex in New Rochelle. But a recent tour of the three-story house with the Abusches and Suzanne D'Amato, senior project manager of the city's development department, held a sense of promise. 
 ''It will be a complete gut rehab,'' Ms. D'Amato said, leading the way up a narrow staircase to the sunny second floor, where the Abusches-- she is the artistic director, he is the executive director -- envision a lobby and acting studios. Ms. D'Amato ticked off the work that will soon begin: new heating and ventilation, plumbing, an electrical system, floors, walls and ceilings. The roof will be replaced with Vermont slate. 
 Money for the rehabilitation, Ms. D'Amato said, will come from the recent $1.2 million sale of a nearby house donated to the city by the same family, the Princes, that gave it Wildcliff in 1940. The condition of the sale was that the money be used to repair Wildcliff, she said. She said the city also applied for a $300,000 grant from the state's office of historic preservation for the renovation.
 Ms. D'Amato said the work would be carried out with Play Group's needs in mind. ''We're confident that Play Group can raise the money to make this project happen,'' she said, referring to the planned new theater. ''Their energy is phenomenal. I know they'll be the best tenants for this space.''
 She said she saw ''no obstacles'' in Play Group's way, as long as the organization allowed New Rochelle to have access to the property for events 10 or 15 times a year. 
 The plan is the latest chapter in Wildcliff's saga, one worthy of a romantically situated building that has been home to three previous theater companies. The house, built in 1852, is the work of the architect Alexander Jackson Davis, who also designed Lyndhurst in Tarrytown and the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford; the Tudor touches were added later by the Princes. From the 1960's to the early 1980's the building was a museum and science center, with a petting zoo that was eventually moved to Muscoot Farm in Somers. 
 The East Coast Arts Theater occupied the house from 1986 to 1991, followed by Wildcliff Center for the Arts, which featured programs in performing and fine arts. Fleetwood Stage used the property to train actors, develop new plays and present innovative programs like one-act festivals. An outdoor stage, with the Sound as a spectacular backdrop, has also been used frequently over the years. 
 Ms. Abusch held her husband's hand as they discussed their plans for the house, which she said she loved for its nooks and crannies and character. They said they also hoped to use the adjacent Hudson Park for their summer arts program. The couple, who met as teenagers doing children's theater on Long Island, have two daughters, ages 9 and 5. 
 Mr. Abusch said Play Group, which has produced nearly 100 plays and musicals starring children and young adults and also runs school residencies and internships, would continue to rent stages in places like the Irvington Town Hall Theater and the White Plains Performing Arts Center until a new theater could be built at Wildcliff.
 He said the couple had met with professional fund-raisers who were ''confident they can help us reach our goal.'' Wildcliff, he said, is ''our dream come true.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven and Jill Abusch hope to take over historic Wildcliff in New Rochelle, left, for their Play Group Theater. (Photographs by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITIES (70%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (60%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) Theater; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Historic Buildings and Sites; Wildcliff Manor (New Rochelle, NY); Theaters (Buildings); Children and Youth; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Play Group Theater

PERSON: steven abusch; jill abusch; Roberta Hershenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Rochelle (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



564 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Expanding Workday Makes Its Mark On Transit

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Nate Schweber and Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting to this article.

 BODY:
The first train of the day pulls out of the Croton-Harmon station at 4:56 a.m., almost a full hour before sunrise, but it is not early enough for Ben Hoyer.
 Mr. Hoyer, like a fast-growing cohort of commuters, wants to get to Grand Central Terminal even earlier than is now possible. By 6 a.m., Mr. Hoyer said, the demands of his job as the head stock trader for an investment firm have already piled up. He is looking forward to next week when the train will start its run 11 minutes sooner and deposit him in Manhattan at 5:45 a.m.
 ''Work is fast-paced, and I need every minute I can get,'' said Mr. Hoyer, 36, who lives with his wife and two children in Briarcliff Manor, about 30 miles north of the city.
 For people like Mr. Hoyer, the limits of the workday have been redefined. Forget 9 to 5, some New Yorkers are pulling 6-to-5 shifts, while others are working 9 to 9. To fit them in, some transit systems that were conceived in a less-flexible era are revamping their service and rewriting their schedules. 
 In April, the Metro-North Railroad will embark on the biggest addition to its service in 20 years, with the express goal of giving each of its customers the chance to reach Manhattan before 6 a.m. For those burning the candle at the other end, the railroad plans to run more trains back to the suburbs after 7:30 p.m.
 On the Long Island Rail Road, the 5 a.m. train from Babylon to Manhattan was so packed that some riders had to stand. So this month, to ease the overcrowding, the railroad added a second train that arrives at Pennsylvania Station at 6:08 a.m., said Brian Dolan, a spokesman for the L.I.R.R. He said the number of passengers on trains arriving between 6 and 7 a.m. rose by about 1,000, or 8 percent, in the past three years, but was essentially flat after 7.
 Just four years ago, New Jersey Transit did not have any trains arriving at Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan between 5:30 and 6 a.m. Now it has three. Since 2002, it has also doubled the number of trains leaving Penn Station from 7:30 to 8 p.m. to four, said Penny Bassett Hackett, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Transit.
 ''What we've experienced is a wider rush hour,'' she said. Predawn car and truck traffic into Manhattan has been increasing, too. Half a million more vehicles crossed the Hudson River into the city between 4 and 6 a.m. last year than in 2000, although inbound traffic declined between 6 and 10 a.m. But the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels and the George Washington Bridge, attributed most of that shift to an off-peak discount that it started offering five years ago to drivers who pay tolls with E-ZPass.
 The peaks of the commuter traffic known to some transit officials as ''human high tides'' still occur just before 9 a.m. and just after 5 p.m., but more and more commuters are straying from the herd. And the shift extends beyond New York. On Chicago's Metra train service, the fastest growth in ridership last year came on trains arriving between 6:30 and 7 a.m. at Union Station in downtown and those departing between 6 and 6:45 p.m., said Tom Miller, a Metra spokesman.
 For Metro-North, which carries more than 130,000 commuters to and from Manhattan each weekday and whose three main lines extend north and northeast of New York City, the fastest growth is coming before 7 a.m. and after 7:30 p.m., said Robert C. MacLagger, the director of operations planning for Metro-North.
 The railroad's officials said they were especially surprised by the strong appetite for trains leaving long before breakfast time. When they surveyed riders on early-morning trains in January, most of the passengers said they wanted to arrive in the city earlier, in many cases 15 or 30 minutes earlier, said Jeffrey Olwell, Metro-North's manager of market research.
 Some of those early birds are adjusting to the merging of global financial markets and the steady march toward round-the-clock trading of stocks and bonds. Some, like Wayne Bosse, a tile-setter and carpet installer from Peekskill, N.Y., are racing into the city to ply their trades before the office buildings fill up. Others are staying late to exchange information with colleagues and clients in Asia whose workday is just beginning, Mr. MacLagger said. 
 ''On both ends, it's the globalization of economics and who you're doing business with that's driving it,'' he said.
 As recently as 20 years ago, only one of every 68 morning commuters to Grand Central arrived by 7 a.m. Last year, one of every 13 did, for a total of 5,306 early-morning arrivals on the average weekday.
 In the evenings, the number of people leaving Grand Central between 4 and 7 p.m. fell last year and, at a little more than 50,000, was about the same as it was in 1995. But the ranks of those filing on to trains there between 7 and 10 p.m. have grown by about 2,000 in the past 10 years to more than 19,000.
 With more passengers working through supper, the late-evening trains often resemble chuck wagons, with some passengers balancing whole meals on their knees while others grumble about the smell and the mess.
 On the 9:07 p.m. train to New Haven one night last week, Kendra Johnson was huddled over a chicken dinner with a side of pasta salad, a position she finds herself in three nights a week, she said.
 ''By the time I get home, I am just so exhausted that I don't want to make anything for dinner, and it is easier to pick things up and eat on the train,'' said Ms. Johnson, 27, who lives in Stamford, Conn., and works as an assistant to an executive at a large company in downtown Manhattan.
 Judy Klem, an investment banker from Milford, Conn., tries to cram some sleep into her four-hour round trip, which requires setting her alarm for 5 a.m. and leaves her eating dinner at 10 p.m. She resists carrying food onto the trains because she finds the habits of other passengers unappetizing.
 ''It's astonishing,'' Ms. Klem said. ''People get really messy stuff. In the morning, people eat bananas and then drop the peels on the ground, so then the peels are on the train floor like in a cartoon.''
 But Ms. Klem, 53, said she understood how a stretched-out workday forces ''weird accommodations'' in people's lives. ''They want to make sure that they get dinner before they have to go home and got to bed,'' she said.
 Still, not all of those coming in before dawn or beating a late retreat are doing so because they have to; some are doing it because they can.
 ''I think mostly if you are in your 20's, you want to stay in the city in the evenings before you go back,'' said Mery Midence, 26, who works for a publishing company, as she caught a 9:10 p.m. train to Stamford last week.
 Craig Hook said he had noticed a slight shift in the workout routines of some members of the Equinox Fitness Club next door to Grand Central that he manages. More people are showing up before 6 a.m., he said, but members are also having breakfast after their workouts and generally spending more time there.
 ''There's more flex time out there,'' Mr. Hook said. ''It's not your basic banker's hours anymore. People don't work that way anymore.''
 Mr. Hoyer, the stock trader, who works at JANA Partners in the MetLife Building above Grand Central, may be the new prototype.
 He rises at 4:25, rushes to the train and uses his cellphone to sort the 200 e-mail messages that have accumulated overnight. After checking in at the office on the trading in European markets, he usually dashes to the gym for a quick workout, grabs a cup of coffee and is back at his desk by 7:15 a.m., when most of his co-workers start arriving.
 Though he said he rarely saw the light of day between October and April, Mr. Hoyer loves ''the feeling of being up before anybody else in town and getting into the city to exercise and trade,'' he said. ''Makes me feel like a real go-getter, I guess.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The first Metro-North Railroad train headed to Grand Central Terminal arrived at the Riverdale Station on Wednesday. Next week, the train will have a new schedule, beginning its run 11 minutes earlier. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 29)
 A commuter, top, rushed Wednesday to make a train as others settled in. Kendra Johnson, right, had dinner during her ride to Stamford, Conn. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 30)Chart: ''Earlier Birds, and Later''Metro-North Railroad will adjust its schedule to account for more riders before and after the peak hours.Graph compares number of inbound Metro-North Riders from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. for 1995 and 2005.(Source by Metro-North Railroad)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); SUBURBS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); CITIES (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%) Railroads; Labor; Working Hours; Commuting; Schedules and Timetables

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Metro-North Commuter Railroad; Long Island Rail Road Co; New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



565 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Debates Mirror Concerns in Washington 

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; John Holl contributed reporting for this article

 BODY:
Hundreds of people attended pro- or anti-immigration rallies in the New York area yesterday, the latest in a nationwide series of demonstrations held as Congress debates legislation that would substantially revamp the country's immigration laws.
 The rallies, held in Manhattan and Queens, and in Bogota, N.J., were mostly modest affairs. The largest was in Queens, where organizers estimated that a few hundred people gathered at a meeting in Jackson Heights billed as a ''dialogue with elected leaders.'' 
In New Jersey, the group United Patriots of America drew about 45 people to discuss what one participant called the ''immigration anarchy'' within the United States. And in Manhattan, about 75 people outside a federal building protested current and proposed immigration rules.
 ''Most Americans have this idea that American immigration laws are very lax,'' said Aarti Shahani, a co-founder of Families for Freedom, the group that organized the Manhattan rally. ''But they're really very tough, and are about to get worse.''
 Many in attendance, she said, were women and children whose fathers, brothers or sons had been convicted of felonies and faced deportation under existing immigration laws.
 Anna Prainito, 26, kept her two young boys close as she explained how her husband, Francesco, 33, was convicted on assault charges in 2002. She said that immigration authorities were seeking to deport him once his prison term ended in October.
 ''For certain people, that might make sense,'' said Ms. Prainito. ''But they need to look at the family. He has two kids and a citizen wife, he's a business owner, he's a taxpayer. He never had any other record.'' 
 Others expressed more worry about legislation recently approved by the House of Representatives. The bill, known as Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration Control Act, would make it a crime -- rather than a civil violation -- to be in the United States without proper documentation. 
 Detractors also say it would expand the definition of criminal ''alien smuggling'' so broadly as to so ensnare churches, schools, and social service organizations aware that an individual is in the country illegally.
 ''I'm sure that some of my kids are undocumented,'' said Rachel Cole, 27, who teaches the seventh grade in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. ''But I want them to be learning math, not getting jailed as felons. I also don't want their parents to worry that I will be forced to inform on them.''
 All told, yesterday's protests -- and similar demonstrations taking place late last week in Los Angeles, Phoenix and other cities where high levels of illegal immigration are a fact of life -- mirrored the debates in Washington. If the two sides had anything in common, it was their dissatisfaction with the proposals, which many who favor stricter rules have deemed too lax and immigration advocates say are draconian.
 John Liu, a member of the New York City Council and a strong proponent of easing immigration rules, urged the crowd in Manhattan to send ''a strong message to Washington that we need to keep our families united.''
 A different perspective was on display at the New Jersey meeting, held at a Veterans of Foreign Wars meeting hall in Bogota, where attendees were on guard against any suggestion that their opposition to immigration carried a whiff of chauvinism.
 ''It doesn't make you racist to speak out for lower immigration,'' said Jim Geist of Hewitt, N.J., who like others there bemoaned what he said was the loss of American jobs to illegal workers and the negative economic impact bought on by illegal immigrants.
 Bogota Mayor Steve Lonegan, said: ''I think the future of our country is at stake, our way of life is at stake, and our security is at stake. I think this is a fight worth fighting.''
 The meeting also drew a counter-protest, staged by a group called Residents Against Racism and drawing about 30 people.
 '''People want to provide for their families, give them food, and the best life possible,'' said Mauro Camporeale, 28, from Carlstadt, N.J.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua James, 8, whose father, Calvin, is in Jamaica, spoke yesterday at a demonstration in Manhattan against the deportation of immigrants. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FELONIES (87%); REFUGEES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CHILDREN (73%); FAMILY (73%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); SMUGGLING (65%); RIOTS (64%); BORDER CONTROL (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Demonstrations and Riots; Law and Legislation

PERSON: JOSH JAMES (52%) Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Bogota (NJ); United States

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



566 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Jews in France Feel Sting as Anti-Semitism Surges Among Children of Immigrants 

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: SARCELLES, France 

 BODY:
In working-class Parisian suburbs like this one, heavily populated by North African immigrants, the word ''Jew'' is now a standard epithet. It appears in graffiti on middle school walls and neighborhood playgrounds and on the tongues of the young. 
 ''It's blacks and Arabs on one side and Jews on the other,'' said Sebastian Daranal, a young black man standing in the parking lot of a government-subsidized housing project with two friends.
Eight men beat the son of a rabbi here in March. Another Jew was attacked the next day.
 In the wake of the torture and killing in February of Ilan Halimi, a 23-year-old Jew, attention has focused on an undeniable problem: anti-Semitism among France's second-generation immigrant youth, whose high jobless rate the government is trying to address with a law drawing widespread protests across the country. 
 The law, intended to increase employment, especially among the young, has drawn opposition because of a provision that allows companies to hire people 25 or younger for a two-year trial period, during which they can be fired without cause. 
 Schools are the battleground over anti-Semitism, and teachers complain that the government has done little, despite many proposals. 
 ''The minister of education has done nothing,'' said Jean-Pierre Obin, an inspector general of education in France, who wrote a report in 2004 that called anti-Semitism ''ubiquitous'' in the 61 schools surveyed. ''He prefers not to talk about it.'' 
 Mr. Obin wrote in the report of ''a stupefying and cruel reality: in France, Jewish children -- and they are alone in this case -- can no longer be educated in just any school.''
 Ianis Roder, 34, a history teacher in a middle school northeast of Paris, said he was stunned by what he witnessed after Sept. 11, 2001. The next day, someone spray-painted in a stairwell of the school the image of an airplane crashing into the World Trade Center beside the words ''Death to the U.S., Death to Jews.''
 When he told his class months later that Hitler had killed millions of million Jews, one boy blurted out, ''He would have made a good Muslim!'' Mr. Roder told of a Muslim teacher who dismissed her class after a shouting match over Nazi propaganda. The students said the offensive images accurately depicted Jews.
 Even today, he said, there is widespread belief that the Sept. 11 attacks were a Jewish plot and that Jews were notified beforehand. 
 Barbara Lefebvre, a history teacher who has taught in several of the working-class suburbs, said many people minimize the anti-Semitism among France's youth. 
 ''They say, 'That's the way the kids talk -- they don't mean it in the same way that you or I would,' '' she said. Ms. Lefebvre, who is Jewish, said she had to argue with the principal of her school several years ago to get an investigation when a student wrote ''dirty Jew'' on a notebook used by her class. The student, a French-Arab boy, was ultimately given just two hours of detention.
 Some teachers simply gloss over subjects likely to elicit anti-Semitic responses. Ms. Lefebvre said she knows teachers who even show fictional films, like Roberto Benigni's ''Life Is Beautiful,'' instead of treating the Holocaust directly.
 France was the first European country to offer Jews full citizenship and has done as much as any to exorcise the ghosts of Nazi collaboration. 
 But the postwar climate for Jews has steadily soured as attention has focused on the Palestinian cause and Muslims have moved here in large numbers.
 With the outbreak of the second Palestinian Intifada against Israel in 2000, anti-Semitic attacks in France skyrocketed. While the number of reported incidents has fallen since peaking in 2004, anti-Semitism is now entrenched in many of the country's working-class housing projects. 
 The Arab communities of North Africa had no postwar sense of Holocaust guilt. If anything, distress over the creation of Israel in 1948 reinforced anger at Jews to the point that successive waves of anti-Jewish riots drove most of North Africa's Jews to Israel and Europe -- primarily France -- in the 1950's and 1960's.
 Some people say that many of the North African Arabs who subsequently moved to France carried anti-Jewish prejudices with them and passed them to a second-generation, where they have been reinforced by support for the Palestinian cause. And French guilt over colonialism has made such prejudices harder to counter.
 ''As long as anti-Semitism came from the extreme right there was a reaction,'' said Ms. Lefebvre, who has written about anti-Semitism and sexism in the schools. ''But when it came from that part of the population that itself was a victim of racism, no one wanted to see it.''
 Sitting in a room hung with posters deploring racism at a youth center in La Courneuve, a suburb on the outskirts of Paris, Yannis, the 16-year-old son of a French father and Algerian mother, said racist talk was common. ''We've become used to it, hearing it day after day, so we've all started to speak like that,'' he said, adding that even 7-year-olds say, ''Don't eat like a Jew,'' if someone is being stingy with food.
 Fahima, 14, with long black hair and limpid eyes, doing her homework beside him, spoke of a confrontation she had with a Jewish teacher two years ago.
 ''He said, 'You blacks and Arabs will never get apartments in Paris,' '' she said, explaining that he meant the students would never manage to move out of the poor suburbs. Fahima, who is French-Algerian, said she retorted, ''You Jews only have apartments there because you were picked on during the war.''
 ''I was mean,'' she said, playing with a shiny cellphone. ''But I'm not anti-Semitic.''
 The girls with her complained about the teacher, saying he talked often about his family's suffering in the Holocaust. ''He cries whenever he mentions his grandmother,'' one girl said with exasperation.
 Some schools have tried to defuse the problem without addressing it directly. After a Jewish girl was harassed in Saint-Ouen two years ago, the administration of her school decided to show ''Night and Fog,'' a haunting 1955 documentary film that includes graphic footage of Nazi death camps. 
 Initially, teachers feared that showing the movie risked inciting confusing comparisons between the Holocaust and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but then relented. 
 At the film's end, one boy -- not a Muslim -- asked how Jews who had known such suffering could treat Palestinians ''the same way.'' 
 No one responded, though Carole Diamant, a philosophy teacher, said she spoke to him privately later about why he was wrong. ''I felt like we were on a wire,'' she said, describing the tension. Since then, the school has included the Holocaust in a broader program on genocide. 
 Anti-Semitism is felt most acutely in communities like Sarcelles, where many North Africans settled in the 1950's and 1960's. Sarcelles is home to one of the most concentrated Jewish communities in France, surrounded by an unsightly sprawl of apartment blocks that house the North African and sub-Saharan immigrants who arrived later.
 France has a well-established Jewish community with European roots, many of whose members occupy the upper echelons of French society. Hundreds of thousands of poorer North African Jews have more recently swelled the Jewish community to about 600,000, making it the largest in Europe. Those North African Jews and their children bear the brunt of the anti-Semitism in the working-class neighborhoods. 
 Each time anti-Semitic attacks make news, the Interior Ministry promises more security around Jewish institutions. But ''more police aren't the answer because it remains in the spirit of the people,'' said Dr. Marc Djebali, a spokesman for the Jewish community in Sarcelles.
 Laurent Berros, the synagogue's rabbi, said local imams had evaded his suggestion that Jewish and Muslim leaders go together into troubled neighborhoods. ''They say that bringing a rabbi into these neighborhoods isn't easy,'' he said. ''There is a fear that they'll be seen as collaborators.''
 The deteriorating climate has led thousands of French Jews to move to Israel in the past five years, including about 3,300 last year, a 35-year high. 
 Murielle Brami, 42, whose parents immigrated to France to escape anti-Jewish riots in Tunisia, has the sinking feeling that history is repeating itself. ''All the Jews in France want one thing, to leave for Israel or the United States,'' she said. That is hyperbole, but it is a sign of the anxiety percolating through France's Jewish community. ''When our parents came, it was paradise here,'' said Ms. Brami, who remembers staying out late without worrying about her safety. 
 Now she avoids certain neighborhoods even in the day and no longer allows her son to wear a yarmulke in the street after some youths put a knife to his throat last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The view from the gate of a synagogue in Sarcelles, where Jewish residents have faced strong anti-Semitism. (Photo by Christophe Calais for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); TORTURE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); HISTORY (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%) Islam; Anti-Semitism; Palestinians; Terrorism; Jews; Children and Youth; Education and Schools

PERSON: Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) France; North Africa; Israel; France

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



567 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: But Can Wonderlic Scramble or Pass?

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE is a 30-year-old weapon of draft-pick destruction used by N.F.L. teams that measures a player's mental acumen, even though it often produces bad intelligence on the Mensa Club position.
 The Wonderlic Personnel Test -- a 12-minute, 50-question standardized exam used in the business world -- is administered to all players, including quarterbacks, by National Football Scouting at the N.F.L.'s combine every year. 
 ''Somehow, it has become known as The Test in the N.F.L.,'' Dr. Robert Weinberg, a sports psychologist at Miami University of Ohio, said in a telephone interview Friday. ''Why, I don't know.''
 A high Wonderlic score (27) once celebrated quarterback Ryan Leaf's ability to decode word problems about two trains leaving a station, but it never provided a single indicator about his derailed motivation. A low Wonderlic score (15) once revealed quarterback Dan Marino's inability to see through a trick question, but it didn't disclose his guile to find an open receiver amid deceptive coverage.
 Six months ago, three games into the N.F.L. season, The Wall Street Journal reported what was basically a guide to the teams most likely to win a game of Boggle based on Wonderlic scores. The top three were the St. Louis Rams, the Oakland Raiders and the Tennessee Titans. The combined 2005 record for Team Protractor was 14-34.
 In the weeks since the N.F.L. combine, Vanderbilt's Jay Cutler has been branded as ''A Beautiful Mind,'' with a reported score of 27 to 29, and hailed as the pocket passer of a scout's drop-back dreams. But Texas' Vince Young has been rendered a victim of a whisper campaign by scouts to transform this sublime solo artist, a quarterback who dismantled Southern California's crafty defense in the Rose Bowl, into a wide receiver. 
 Why the insult? There is his low release point, and there is the scrutiny over his low Wonderlic score, originally leaked as a 6 before being releaked as a 16. 
 ''In all the numbers that I've seen published, every single one of them to date has been wrong,'' Jeff Foster, the executive director of National Football Scouting, said when reached Friday. ''Not just Vince's score, but all of them.''
 What's going on? If the Wonderlic is irrelevant, if it is flawed, if the leaks are erroneous, what is the test's purpose?
 It's a manipulative tool in the N.F.L.'s strategy of misinformation in the run-up of head fakes and spin moves to a draft selection. The paranoia has never been greater among decision makers because a choice has never been so scrutinized by every blogger, fan and edgy owner.
 ''With what you pay a top-five pick, you can't afford to miss on him, not just from a talent standpoint, but from a salary-cap standpoint,'' Foster added.
 So gossip isn't gossip, but part of the plan. And a test isn't a test, but a symbol of a league's fear of failure. 
 Young represents something different. Part Steve Young in improvisational skill, part Randall Cunningham in acrobatic range, Vince Young could be viewed as a player who could change the game, but he has been cast as a risk with a high bust quotient.
 Bill James, are you busy? The N.F.L. could use a ''Moneyball'' mind to look at the antiquated numbers differently, to take clipboards in a new direction.
 ''In the N.F.L., they are spending millions on draft choices,'' Weinberg said. ''So, why not spend a few thousand dollars or whatever to help them be more intelligent in making these decisions?''
 As Weinberg suggests, why not commission a more applicable test than the Wonderlic? Some teams use other psychological tests, but most are known to be outdated. And none carry the unaccountable P.R. weight of the Wonderlic.
 It is easier for teams to publicly explain passing on Young when his intelligence is in question. Fear the bust, devalue the player. He is bright enough to spot the manipulation.
 ''Being a guy expected to be drafted high, they will try to find something to make me look bad," Young recently told reporters.
 The Wonderlic is about image. And it's also about bias if it fails to represent the norm of its survey group. 
 Some athletes grow up with real-life economics: If a power bill arrives on the 10th and rent was due on the 1st and payday isn't until the 20th, how long is the grocery list? 
 A sample Wonderlic question frames a very different economic environment: ''Three individuals form a partnership and agree to divide the profits equally. X invests $9,000, Y invests $7,000, Z invests $4,000. If the profits are $4,800, how much less does X receive than if the profits were divided in proportion to the amount invested?'' ($560, if you're scoring at home.) 
 ''A general test may, in fact, have some bias against a certain segment of the population,'' Weinberg said. ''A test specific to sports would not be about investments or how you fix something in your house.''
 The Wonderlic would be dropped by all 32 teams -- which National Football Scouting answers to -- if it wasn't so valued for its history of consistent error. 
 ''One of the important elements in evaluating players from year to year to year is consistency of tests,'' Foster said. ''So whether people believe the Wonderlic -- or anything else we do at the combine -- is right, wrong or indifferent, the fact we have consistency of measurable data is important.''
 Who would want to lose such a valuable propaganda tool?


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vince Young, who led Texas to the national title, has been undermined by the Wonderlic test. (Photo by Harry Cabluck/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Tests and Testing

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (86%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); AMERICAN MENSA (58%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%); ST LOUIS RAMS (54%); TENNESSEE TITANS (54%) University of Texas

PERSON: Selena Roberts; Vince Young

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (71%); TENNESSEE, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



568 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: Translation: Is the Whole World Watching?

BYLINE: By LORNE MANLY

 BODY:
''HOW you see something,'' said Nigel Parsons, the managing director of Al Jazeera International, ''depends very much on where you're sitting.''
 Those words could well serve as the manifesto for the channel, the English-language offspring of the polarizing pan-Arab network, which will make its debut in more than 40 million households in late May.
Addressing hundreds of journalists and academics who had come to Doha, Qatar, for the second Al Jazeera Forum, Mr. Parsons promised that the new channel -- with its headquarters there and broadcast centers in Washington, London and Kuala Lumpur -- will cover the stories and people that the Western-owned news media overlook. ''We're not going to be another CNN, BBC or Sky,'' he told the attendees on the last day of January. ''If we were, there'd be no point.'' But, he added, ''It's not our position to tell viewers what to think.'' 
 During a freewheeling question-and-answer session, the audience pressed him for details. With costs already surpassing a billion dollars, Al Jazeera is the most ambitious television network start-up in recent years. Will it be the first network to crack the Western monopoly on delivering news and opinion to a global audience? Will it provide an Arab and Muslim point of view to the rest of the world? 
 Many at the forum hoped it would. But its top management is British, and its high-profile hires -- like the smooth interviewer David Frost and the former ''Nightline'' correspondent Dave Marash -- are hardly representative of the developing world. Will it then, the journalists wanted to know, just be colonialism in more modern garb?
 Outside of that crowded conference room, the pressure is just as great. In the Arab world, Al Jazeera has a reputation for tackling the thorny issues. But in the United States, where it is best known for showing tapes of Osama Bin Laden's tirades, one person's fearless reporting can quickly become another's dangerous propaganda. And the more widely it is viewed as a terrorist mouthpiece, the harder a time the channel will have getting a spot on the already-crowded American cable line-ups.
 Mr. Parsons understands the need to reassure new viewers in the West without disappointing old ones in the Arab world. ''Essentially, it's about getting the balance right,'' he said.
 A little more than five minutes from the 1980's-era opulence of the vast Sheraton on the Doha's corniche -- if the traffic-clogged roundabouts thoughtfully bequeathed by the British do not double the commute time -- lies the headquarters of the Al Jazeera networks. To describe the exterior as nondescript would be giving the dusty compound of squat buildings and satellite transponders too much credit. But inside, another story unfolds. 
 The Arabic-channel's new newsroom, which opened last year, is an airy space filled with Aeron chairs, slick flat-screen LG and Samsung monitors and on-air sets whose color scheme (orangey green) morphs through the day. Next door, in a former parking lot, swarms of men in smocks -- imported cheap labor from Southeast Asia -- hurry to complete the English-language headquarters. 
 Employees at Al Jazeera International boast of having one of the largest plasma screens of any newsroom in the world. From the newsroom on the first floor, a glass spiral staircase will lead to a mezzanine of open-plan news desks for the Web site and glass-walled offices, a rarity in the Arab world, where executive suites are more often clubby, private affairs. A fiber-optic network will connect Doha to its broadcast centers and other bureaus. There will also be a prayer room, as is customary in Qatari workplaces. Over all, it's a far cry from the tiny newsroom of the channel's early years, the one that prompted the Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak to marvel during a 2000 visit, ''All this trouble from a matchbox like this.''
 Al Jazeera's rapid growth over the last decade is primarily the doing of one man, the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani. Since bloodlessly overthrowing his father in 1995, Sheik Hamad has overseen the vast natural gas reserves of his country, a sandy spit of land about the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined that juts out of Saudi Arabia into the Persian Gulf. 
 But those reserves will not last forever, so he has used the profits to diversify. He has opened Qatar to the West, turning it into a regional education hub, setting off a building boom and loosening some political restrictions. In 1996, he issued a decree establishing Al Jazeera, and then bankrolled its first five years with a grant of $137 million. He is still footing the bulk of the channel's annual budget. 
 ''He's thinking long-term,'' said Hugh Miles, the author of ''Al Jazeera: The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel That is Challenging the West'' (Grove Press). In a rough neighborhood, he wants to build ''an Arab version of Switzerland -- rich, neutral and secure,'' Mr. Miles said.
 Mahmud Shammam, the Washington bureau chief of Al Watan newspaper and Newsweek in Arabic, as well as the emir's latest addition to Al Jazeera's board of directors, said Sheik Hamad hoped the network would be a countervailing force to some of the political and social trends in the Middle East. ''He wants Al Jazeera to be a force for democracy and modernization in the Arab world,'' Mr. Shammam said.
 Certainly the region has not been a haven for the free press. Owned or controlled by the state, the television channels in the region are often filled with dreary state receptions and handshakes of smiling kings and autocratic generals, breaking-news bulletins of the queen's latest ribbon cutting, and an avoidance of anything remotely controversial.
 But since its debut in November 1996, Al Jazeera has offended multitudes with news and commentary that do not necessarily conform to the views of mullahs or kings. To the outrage of social conservatives, the host of a religion show said the Koran did not forbid fellatio. Guests have questioned the right of the Saud family to rule Saudi Arabia. At some time or another, nearly every country in the Middle East -- save Israel -- has banned or curtailed its reporters. 
 Meanwhile Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has accused the network of ''vicious lies'' and of promoting an anti-American worldview. (An Al Jazeera journalist in Spain was sentenced last year in that country to seven years in prison for collaborating with Al Qaeda; Al Jazeera is appealing the verdict.) 
 The reality of what is on the channel is more nuanced. (See sidebar.) Just as the emir and Qatar play host to the American military while offering asylum to Saddam Hussein's wife, Al Jazeera offers a showcase for dissenting views -- such as Dr. Wafa Sultan, an Arab-American psychiatrist who recently denounced some Muslims for what she called their backwardness -- but a definite worldview dominates, one that is pro-Palestinian and skeptical of the West's intentions. Particularly America's intentions, post 9/11. Recently the administration has chosen to engage more with the channel; American officials, such as Condoleezza Rice, have occasionally appeared as guests. 
 ''Al Jazeera has played a very important role in creating foundations for democracy and pluralism in the Middle East,'' said Marc Lynch, an associate professor of political science at Williams College and the author of ''Voices of a New Arab Public: Iraq, Al Jazeera and a Middle East Politics Today'' (Columbia University Press). ''It can also fan the flame of populism and anti-Americanism. And there's an ongoing struggle between these two forces.''
 Dealing with that struggle falls to Mr. Parsons, as he sets out to convince cable and satellite operators, politicians and curious prospective viewers that Al Jazeera International will not be biased against the West, but will nonetheless offer a needed alternative to CNN International and BBC World. 
 The son of a British military officer, Mr. Parsons, 54, grew up in countries like Singapore and Malaysia, and has spent 30 years working for news outlets ranging from BBC Radio to Associated Press Television News. When he was first approached about the position at Al Jazeera International, he was frustrated with the tenor of most English-language news. ''Especially the coverage of the Iraqi invasion,'' he said. ''Somehow it seemed to me that the Fourth Estate had got into bed with the third estate and the rest of us had been left outside the bedroom. So when this came along, it was blank sheet of paper and a chance to make a difference, and to do things differently.''
 The new English-language channel will have all of the standard accoutrements: interview programs, panels of political experts and critiques of the news media. ''Frost Over the World,'' for example, will showcase Mr. Frost's one-on-one skills with global newsmakers each Friday.
 But Al Jazeera's main business program has the far-from-Wall-Street title ''People and Power,'' and its host, a former Economist correspondent, Dr. Shereen El Feki, pledges to cover the ''grassroots'' along with the executive suites. And ''Witness,'' the channel's daily documentary series out of London, will feature the films as well as conversations with their makers.
 And though Al Jazeera International's competitors have also laid claim to the think globally, act locally mentality (and dispute that Western ownership leads to Western-centric newscasts), the new channel is turning the idea into a physical reality. Its broadcasting day is expected to begin in Kuala Lumpur, 9 a.m. local time, and over the next four hours the journalists there will drive the report. The following 11 hours will come out of Doha, before the London broadcast center takes the reins for five. Then, for four hours beginning at 4 p.m. on the East Coast of the United States, Washington will gain its measure of control. 
 This setup, Al Jazeera International executives say, will differentiate the channel from its more centralized competitors and ensure that important regional stories do not get overlooked -- as Bangladesh's deadly typhoons did in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita, said Steve Clark, a former Sky News executive who is the new channel's director of news. 
 So do not expect much coverage of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the annual winter home for privileged white men (and Angelina Jolie) that is much adored by the Western news media. ''I don't think we'd have even gone there,'' Mr. Parsons said. 
 Just how willingly an international audience will flock to this alternative news channel -- and whether that migration will reward the emir's huge wager -- is unclear. ''People are far more interested in the price of petrol at their local petrol station than they are in probably what's happening in Sudan,'' Mr. Parsons said. ''That's just a fact. But there is a hunger for international news. If you do it through human interest, people will always relate.''
 The fact that Al Jazeera International's target audience -- Arab and Asian expatriates, non Arabic-speaking Muslims and news hounds -- is so geographically diffuse only complicates matters. Al Jazeera also faces the same squeeze in the United States as other fledgling cable channels not backed by a media conglomerate: no room at the inn. 
 Executives do not want the channel relegated to a premium tier, as the Arabic-language channel is in this country, available only to subscribers of the Dish Network willing to pay an extra $26 to $40 a month. But mainstream tiers are already crowded, and newer channels devoted to murder mysteries (Sleuth) and conspicuous consumption (Fine Living) can be much more lucrative. And there's another competitor looming; BBC World has said it plans to bring its 24-hour news channel to the United States, and is working with Discovery Communications.
 So far, Al Jazeera International has not found a cable or satellite provider. The search continues, and the channel says it has received offers across the United States, including a proposal from one major cable operator. And the channel is considering streaming the video over the Internet, so viewers can watch the network on computers. Either way, the emir's largess takes some of the pressure off. ''We'd love to have cable distribution,'' said Lindsay Oliver, the channel's commercial director, ''but it's not going to kill us if we don't.'' 
 The perception that despite the Middle Eastern base, Westerners once again are dictating the news could ultimately pose a much bigger threat to the channel. At the Al Jazeera forum in Doha, some employees of the Arabic-language channel joined the grumbling about the Western tilt in the top ranks.
 The English-language channel has been filling out its staff with Arab and Muslim journalists, but even so, the complaints continue. ''Does the emir know,'' asked one post on the Friends of Al Jazeera blog, ''his money is being shared around a group of television people who would make Fox News proud? Fellow Arabs in Doha are not amused.'' 
 All told, Al Jazeera International expects to hire more than 500 people, of which more than 150 will be journalists. Although the new channel will be a separate entity, it will share some resources with its Arabic-language sibling, and to build camaraderie between the two staffs, movie nights and dinners have already been held.
 Mr. Shammam of Al Watan said that while he understands why language requirements would limit the network's hiring pool, he would like to see more diversity. ''If it is international, it has to be international,'' he said.
 And any eventual success of Al Jazeera International will probably not be measured on the bottom line, but on the international battlefield of ideas. ''It has a chance of shifting slightly the agenda-setting decisions made by the media in New York, London and Atlanta,'' said Daoud Kuttab, the director of the Institute of Modern Media at Al Quds University in Ramallah. 
 For the emir of a tiny country striving to show the West ''the real Arab world, the real Muslim world,'' in the words of Mr. Shammam, that may be victory enough.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The headquarters of Arabic Al Jazeera. (Photo by Stephanie Kuykendal for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani, left, and Nigel Parsons. (Photos by William Philpott/Reuters, left
Mike Clarke/AFP/Getty Images)
 The newsroom of Al Jazeera International, which is currently under construction, will include a spiral staircase and a fiber-optic network -- a far cry from the network's early facility. (Photographs by Stephanie Kuykendal for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (60%) Television; English Language

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Al Jazeera (Television Network)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Lorne Manly

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) QATAR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%) Qatar

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



569 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Play It Again, Spike

BYLINE: By Caryn James

 BODY:
SPIKE LEE'S new bank heist movie, ''Inside Man,'' doesn't sound very Spiky. It's a studio film from a script he didn't write, a sleek but familiar cat-and-mouse story with Clive Owen as the bank-robbing cat and Denzel Washington as the detective mouse. But while the film does not offer a Spike Lee vision, he manages to leave some fingerprints. The setting is his usual -- fraught, multi-ethnic New York City -- and even while focusing on the hostage-taking robber and the detectives, the movie glances at issues he has addressed more consistently and thoughtfully than any other filmmaker: race, class and power. 
 It shouldn't be surprising that Universal's ''Inside Man'' is more studio than Spike. He is no longer the guerrilla filmmaker who seemed to come out of nowhere with ''She's Gotta Have It'' -- August will mark the 20th anniversary of that film -- but a major presence whose pattern has been to make movies as big as ''Malcolm X'' or as small as ''Girl 6,'' to work from his own ideas and sometimes from others', and above all to keep moving. 
Through it all, his style has become so distinctive that at times even a casual viewer of ''Inside Man'' is likely to think, ''Spike must have written that.'' A turbaned Sikh hostage who has been released complains about always being detained at security checkpoints these days, and the detective played by Mr. Washington says, ''Bet you can get a cab, though.'' That barbed comment seems to belong in a Spike Lee movie no matter who wrote it. (Mr. Lee said in a phone message that there was some on-set improvisation to add ''New York flavor'' to Russell Gewirtz's ''great script,'' and that Mr. Washington came up with the taxi line.) 
 There are other recognizable touches: the villainous banker played by Christopher Plummer displays a photograph of himself with the first President Bush and Barbara Bush, one of Mr. Lee's gleeful political swipes like that in the opening credits of his last film, ''She Hate Me'' (2004), which puts George W. Bush's face and the Enron logo on a three-dollar bill. 
 You would expect some flops in such a wide-ranging, risky career, and the muddled ''She Hate Me'' is practically a model of how not to make a film. More surprisingly though, a Spike Lee film is often more impressive at second glance than it was at first. 
 It's easier now to separate the films from the inflamed rhetoric -- by Mr. Lee and about him -- that often surrounded them when they opened. Mr. Lee was quoted calling Warner Brothers, the studio that released ''Malcolm X'' (1992), a plantation; with ''Do the Right Thing'' (1989), some wrong-headed critics worried in print that the films' violent torching of an Italian pizzeria in Bedford-Stuyvesant by black characters would incite real-life riots. Publicity like that made the movies seem simplistic. But Mr. Lee's films have always been more reasoned and complex than polemical. 
 A look back at his career, freed from received opinions and skewed memories, shows that major works like ''Do the Right Thing'' hold up. And some underappreciated gems emerge, like the nuanced ''Jungle Fever'' (1991), about an interracial romance, and the audacious ''Bamboozled'' (2000), his satirical take on a contemporary minstrel show. 
 Nola Darling, the sexually voracious heroine of ''She's Gotta Have It,'' who unapologetically juggles three men at once, is no longer quite so daring. And the acting is as awkward and rough as it always seemed. But the film's energy still leaps off the screen; the black-and-white photography that turned an inexpensive necessity into sultry atmosphere still works; the characteristic Lee blend of drama and humor is already there. Nola remembers a parade of men offering ludicrous come-on lines, like ''You so fine, baby, I'd drink a tub of your bathwater.'' (Unfortunately, ''She's Gotta Have It'' has been out of print on video, but a DVD will be released sometime in the next several months. ) 
 ''Do the Right Thing,'' with its on-target opening song, Public Enemy's ''Fight the Power,'' may still be the essential Spike Lee film, although it seems tamer and even more realistic now. There is anger and bigotry in the resentment between blacks and Italian-Americans, but while some of the characters are heatedly, stupidly angry, the film never is. It is a thought-through depiction of problems without easy answers, with white characters like the mystified Italian-American pizzeria owner (Danny Aiello) and his hate-filled racist son (John Turturro), and black characters who range from the furiously political to the politically oblivious. Today the film looks less like an argument than a work of social realism about powerless characters who don't know how or even whom to fight. 
 ''Jungle Fever'' may be remembered for its stunning scene in a crackhouse, a cavernous space so filled with drug-addled characters -- the major figures played by Samuel L. Jackson and an unknown Halle Berry -- that it made the scope of the problem viscerally real. It is strange now to be reminded that the scene comes late in a film that is mostly about the romance between a married black architect, Flipper (Wesley Snipes), and an Italian-American woman, Angie (Annabella Sciorra). 
 Class distinctions within each race are as much a part of Mr. Lee's multifaceted story as race itself. Flipper, the professional success, goes to that crackhouse to find his own brother. Angie, who is desperate to escape her small-minded working-class neighborhood, is beaten by her father when he hears of her affair. Some of the most painfully astute scenes capture the bigotry of the neighborhood guys who hang out at an Italian-American newsstand run by Angie's former boyfriend (John Turturro, a Spike Lee regular). 
 And the scene in which Flipper and Angie break up is one of Mr. Lee's most even-handed and honest. Flipper insists he wants no children with her. No ''half-black, half-white babies for me,'' he says, no ''mixed nuts.'' Angie calmly says he is as racist as her family. Most important, there are no villains in that room. 
 As in so many of Mr. Lee's movies, he sometimes gets carried away. A scene in which Flipper's wife and her girlfriends complain about black men runs on and on and is far less effective than a brief scene in which a black waitress -- played by Queen Latifah before anyone knew who she was -- balks at serving the interracial couple.
 Because Mr. Lee's films are so pointed, sometimes they start with a distractingly wrong move. ''Bamboozled'' has a heavy-handed beginning that can skew an initial viewing. Damon Wayans plays a television writer called Pierre Delacroix, an upwardly mobile black man with enunciation so odd and precise it is clearly an affectation. But it's a huge mistake to have Delacroix start the film by reciting the dictionary definition of satire. That trite ploy sets us up for a clunker, while the satire that follows is sharp and often hilarious. 
 Delacroix deliberately creates an offensive 21st-century minstrel show, with characters called Mantan and Sleep'n Eat (Savion Glover and Tommy Davidson), billed as ''two real coons'' and based on black minstrels in history. But his attempt at outrage backfires when the show becomes a hit. The way the minstrel show evolves -- from an act of sabotage to a painful reality that exposes the entire country's racism -- is brilliantly done. And the characters are shrewdly drawn types. Michael Rappaport plays a white executive who is never funnier than when he is seriously calling Delacroix ''brother man.'' Jada Pinkett-Smith plays Delacroix's assistant and the voice of reason. Again, class divisions emerge within one family; she is embarrassed by her thuggish brother (played by Mos Def). Although the ending is too abrupt, ''Bamboozled'' reveals how daring Mr. Lee still is. 
 When he pushes the limits and fails, though, he fails big. ''She Hate Me'' feels like three different movies, each worse than the last. (The story is by Michael Genet, who shares screenplay credit with Mr. Lee.) It begins as a fairly funny satire of corruption in business, as an on-the-rise executive named Jack (Anthony Mackie) becomes a whistle-blower. The film goes out of control when the unemployed Jack becomes a paid sperm donor for a parade of lesbian mothers; there are sex scenes and there are animated scenes with Jack's face in giant sperm swimming across the screen. Finally he meets the Mafia dad of one of the lesbians and -- well, none of it makes enough sense or nonsense to go on. What needs to be played as off-the-charts satire is flat-footed and sluggish from the start. 
 But such failure may be the flip side of Mr. Lee's restless creativity, a small price to pay for so much artistic success, like that of the emotionally intense ''25th Hour'' (2002) with Edward Norton as a man saying goodbye to friends, family and New York before heading to prison. Like ''Inside Man,'' it is not an original Spike Lee idea -- it is based on a novel and screenplay by David Benioff -- but the story blends with his interests and his vision of the city so seamlessly that you'd never guess. 
 And while ''Inside Man'' may be his attempt at a mainstream, money-making hit, he hasn't lost his political edge. His next film, ''When the Levees Broke,'' is a documentary about Hurricane Katrina's victims, scheduled to be shown on HBO in August. While plenty of voices have addressed the racial component of the government's slow response, no one can approach it with his mix of bravado, outrage and a thoughtfulness that wasn't always appreciated in the days of early Spike.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Denzel Washington, left, and Spike Lee on the ''Inside Man'' set. Clockwise below, scenes from ''Jungle Fever'' with John Turturro, left, and Anthony Quinn
''Do the Right Thing'' with Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis
and ''She's Gotta Have It'' with Tracy Camilla Johns and Tommy Redmond Hicks. (Photo by David Lee/Universal Studios)
(Photo by Island Pictures)
(Photo by David Lee/Universal Studios)
(Photo by Universal Studios)(pg. 11)
 Richard Edson and Spike Lee in the 1989 film ''Do the Right Thing.'' (Photo by Universal City Studios)(pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK ROBBERY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%) Motion Pictures

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (61%) Caryn James; Spike Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



570 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-26-06: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Rock Star

BYLINE: By William Safire. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
You no longer have to be a rock star to be a rock star.
 The Associated Press quoted Larry Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia, saying of Barack Obama, the freshman senator from Illinois, ''He's one of the Democratic Party's few rock stars. Hillary Clinton would be another, and it's hard to name a third.''
A week later, Obama appeared at the annual white-tie, stuffed-shirt gathering of the Gridiron Club. Speaking for the Democrats, he made a few gentle jokes and took an oratorical gamble by singing a song, which he carried off well. He thanked the assemblage of press pooh-bahs for all the favorable publicity on his arrival and graciously concluded by saying that when he accomplished something, he'd get back to us. A veteran journalist at my table said of the multiracial, multitalented politician, ''This guy has rock star written all over him.'' 
 In bidding the Federal Reserve chairman farewell, President Bush said, ''Alan Greenspan is perhaps the only central banker to achieve what one publication called 'rock-star status.''' (The publication that Bush took pains not to plug was The Economist.)
 The original meaning can be found in a 1964 Chicago Defender ad: ''In person. . .Major Lance, Marvin Gaye and 38 big 'rock' stars!'' But as these recent examples show, the phrase has gained a meaning once removed from loud music, dancing gyrations and wildly enthusiastic fans. At Merriam-Webster, the file on the use of rock star applied to someone not famous for such activity begins with a 1991 citation about Stephen King, described as ''a rock star of an author -- his horror movies routinely go multiplatinum, and his byline operates like a brand name.'' The lexicographer James Lowe informs me that M.-W. is considering including the phrase to denote someone who is not famous for rock music performance in its next Collegiate edition: ''We have found the term used also to refer to politicians, football players, tennis players, rodeo champions, environmental activists and most recently to Senator Hillary Clinton'' -- in fact, anyone ''who has charisma that arouses popularity. A tentative definition might be 'a person who has achieved the status of a celebrity in a particular field.'''
 They have been watching the semantic leap over at the Oxford English Dictionary, too. I put my theory that this phrase is replacing the voguish icon or superstar to Katherine Martin at the O.E.D. ''I think it offers different connotations,'' she countered. ''Icon implies longevity; superstar suggests substance; rock star is about image. For that reason, it seems often to be used with mildly satirical intent.''
 She agreed that the meaning of the term, applied to nonrock stars, goes well beyond mere celebrity or plain-vanilla stardom. But Martin's nice Fingerspitzengefuhl about connotation is worth following: ''Particularly in its use to describe politicians, I think the implication is that their popularity is somewhat faddish and transitory. Referring to somebody as a rock star rather than merely a star also seems sometimes to suggest that they possess a level of celebrity that is unseemly for their field.'' This is generated by ''the tendency of the media to regard all figures through the lens of entertainment.''
 Martin observes that ''the term movie star fails to elicit images of a frenzied adolescent mob. That's the kind of fame we are talking about with rock star: the type of dynamic public figure people tend to toss their panties at,'' this perceptive semanticist notes, adding primly, ''metaphorically speaking.''

Infra Dig
 ''We can't trust Dubai with our critical infrastructure,'' said Representative Duncan Hunter, attacking the Bush administration for -- in more understandable terms -- ''the ports deal.''
 The mouth-filling phrase was enshrined in bureaucratese by President Clinton's 1996 executive order titled ''Critical Infrastructure Protection,'' establishing a commission of the same name. It was defined as ''telecommunications, electrical power systems, gas and oil storage and transportation'' and a bunch of other services ending with ''continuity of government.'' 
 What makes an infrastructure officially critical? Answer from the commission's final report in 1997: ''so vital that their incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating effect on defense or economic security.'' In 2001, the phrase was dusted off and used again as the title of Section 1016 of the Patriot Act: Critical Infrastructures Protection, defined as ''systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such. . .would have a debilitating impact on security.'' Effect was changed to impact. 
 Infra is Latin for ''below; inferior to''; it is best known for its use in infra dig, which means ''beneath one's dignity.'' Infrastructure was introduced into wonkish political jargon by Emanuel Shinwell, Labor's minister of defense, in the House of Commons in 1950. The Conservative Winston Churchill rose to give warning: ''As to this new word with which he has dignified our language'' -- a subtle play on infra dig -- ''we must have full opportunity to consider it and to consult the dictionary.'' 
 When the word was used again in Commons, Churchill sallied forth in relentless ridicule: ''In this debate we have had the usual jargon about 'the infrastructure of a supranational authority.'. . .It may well be that these words infra and supra have been introduced into our current political parlance by the band of intellectual highbrows who are naturally anxious to impress British Labor with the fact that they learned Latin at Winchester.''
 In the U.S., Bill Clinton picked up the wonkism in his 1992 campaign, urging ''investment in our infrastructure.'' But no Churchill rose in the Republican ranks to be witheringly critical.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Lettering by Shynola

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MUSIC (74%); WRITERS (73%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); ATHLETES (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); HORROR FILMS (50%) English Language

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); STEPHEN KING (50%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



571 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: EXECUTIVE M.B.A.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Build Pipelines And Gas Will Come

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
DONALD E. FELSINGER, chief executive of Sempra Energy, the San Diego company with $12 billion a year in revenue, says America needs big energy infrastructure projects such as pipelines to help contain prices. Here are excerpts from an interview:

Q. Why is the United States so dependent on other countries for energy?

A. We've become more and more of an importer of energy over time. There is nothing on the horizon that is going to lessen that. It's something we're going to have to live with, and address.

Q. Is natural gas part of the solution?

A. Natural gas is going to follow in the ways of oil. In North America, we have been able to satisfy our own demands for natural gas from internal production. What we haven't been able to produce in the United States, we've imported from Canada. But we're at a point of time in our history that it's becoming apparent that we are consuming more gas. That's why prices have gone from $2 to $3 per million B.T.U.'s over 20 years and now are in the range of $7 to $15. 
We saw that coming about five years ago. We're one of the biggest users of natural gas, serving about 6.5 million customers. We're building natural-gas-fired combined-cycle power plants.

Q. How can you keep prices from shooting up further?

A. We came to the conclusion that there was plenty of gas around the world looking for a market -- that imported natural gas could be priced to compete against domestic supply.

Q. Is natural gas in the same countries that have oil?

A. It's some of the same countries, but also different countries. You see a lot of the South American countries like Bolivia that have gas. We have stranded natural gas up in Alaska. We have natural gas in Australia. It's all over the world. It's in more places than oil is.

Q. If we import more liquefied natural gas, would that ease our dependence on oil?

A. It would lessen it somewhat, because oil and natural gas get substituted for each other. But it's naive of us as a country to think we're going to become energy-independent. If we were to launch a program like that, it would take many, many years. I'm not sure it would be achievable.
 We have been struggling as a country for a number of years to have a defined energy policy that would set certain goals to achieve by certain dates. I think the country would benefit by having a more focused energy policy that sets goals and objectives we're trying to achieve. But I'm not concerned that we have oil or natural gas coming in from other parts of the world. As the global economy develops and as countries become more dependent on the revenue from selling natural resources, the world becomes a more civilized place.

Q. You're bringing more liquefied natural gas into the New Orleans area. Why?

A. We are building, in Mexico, the first L.N.G. receipt facility on the west coast of North America. That facility will service northern Mexico and the western United States, and will be in operation in 2008. The coast of Louisiana is interesting because production of offshore gas in the Gulf of Mexico is declining. That means fixed assets, like pipelines that take that gas to Chicago or New York, are not being utilized. By siting L.N.G. plants in the gulf area, we can use the existing infrastructure more fully.

Q. And you're building a pipeline across the Rocky Mountains?

A. Yes. The Rockies is one of the few areas in the United States that has growth potential. There is more gas that can be found there, but it is constrained from a pipeline standpoint. If producers can get their gas to market, they would be motivated to drill new wells and develop new supplies that exist there. So we are working with our partner, Kinder Morgan, to build an express pipeline that would take that gas all the way to Ohio.

Q. After decades when few energy projects were built, is American resistance to such projects beginning to fade?

A. It's just like the electric transmission grid, which is a point of focus right now from a reliability standpoint. Companies are trying to upgrade it and improve its reliability, driven by the blackout that impacted New York. Our natural gas infrastructure is going through similar change. It has to be modified to accept the receipt of L.N.G. and pipelines have to be built to more efficiently move that gas to the marketplace.

Q. Over all, do you expect a growing acceptance for energy-related projects?

A. I think there will be. I think we have to do a lot more to educate the public. I looked today at the prices our customers were paying for natural gas and they were spiking up, and we've seen the struggles they were having paying their heating bills this winter.

Q. You recently settled a class-action lawsuit that contended you withheld energy during the California energy crisis. Your company agreed to pay $377 million and change some of its business practices -- without admitting any wrongdoing. What happened?

A. California had a bad experience with deregulation. The way they went about it set the stage for massive problems because there was a lack of infrastructure to serve the state's energy needs. As a result of that, nearly every company that did business in California got sued. We were one of those. We decided to settle and move on with our business.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER COGENERATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Pipelines; Capital Investment

COMPANY: SEMPRA ENERGY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Sempra Energy

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: DONALD E FELSINGER (92%) Donald E Felsinger

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



572 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Smart Streets

 BODY:
This is a tale of two cities. 
 One had a plan to curb traffic. The other actually implemented it. The city that took action was London. The other -- the one with the vision thing -- was New York, which came upon the idea of congestion pricing a half century ago. The plan then went to that dark, lonely place where great ideas often go, never to be resurrected. 
But now, a discussion of congestion pricing as part of the broader debate on how to limit traffic on New York's busiest streets can no longer be avoided. On any given day of the week, some 800,000 cars -- more than half of them personal vehicles -- pour onto the streets south of 60th St. in Manhattan. Forget a tipping point; New York's traffic has long passed that. 
 And every year, the daily number of cars creeps upward by the thousands -- some 13,500 annually, according to a study conducted by Bruce Schaller, a Brooklyn-based consultant. Transportation Alternatives, the group that commissioned the study, is one of several organizations pointing out what should be obvious -- that the city is choking in traffic. 
 While Mayor Michael Bloomberg has taken some steps to address traffic flow problems -- including restricting turns on designated Manhattan ''thru streets,'' and moving to encourage walking and cycling for commuters -- the larger issue of actually containing or reducing traffic seems to be on the back burner. It could be that the mayor too clearly remembers the hostile reception that forced him to abandon the idea of adding bridge tolls in his first term. Even so, ducking the traffic problem seems at odds with the sensibilities of a mayor who has otherwise given high priority to productivity, health and other quality of life issues -- all of which are negatively affected by the traffic logjam.
 The mayor could start by taking a harder look at the success of London's congestion pricing program. The city charges daytime drivers in the central business district a fee of $14 a trip, allowing a 90 percent discount for residents who take the car for a spin in the area. 
 The result has been a drop of nearly one-third in vehicle traffic. But commuters have not been seriously discomfited; in almost all cases, workers who once relied on cars have been using public transit, which in turn has been upgraded with funds from the congestion surcharge.
 Critics who fear congestion pricing argue that crowded streets reflect a vital economy. But in New York, traffic congestion has always been too much of a good thing. William Vickrey, a Columbia professor who came up with the notion of congestion pricing in the 1950's, could not have imagined the clogged streets we have today.
 Gridlock can be measured in appointments missed, tardiness, environmental damage and even elevated blood pressure. Taking a third of the vehicles off New York's most heavily used streets can't hurt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) Roads and Traffic; Editorials; Transit Systems

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



573 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Russia Divided on Wording of U.N. Statement on Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Andrew Kramer contributed reporting from Moscow for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25 

 BODY:
The Bush administration and Russia, struggling to forge a joint strategy on Iran, remain at odds over whether the United Nations Security Council should take a step toward imposing penalties on Iran by labeling its nuclear activities a threat to world peace, American and European officials say.
 The officials say that the Russian-American impasse, in which leading European countries are siding with the Bush administration, has held up what the West had hoped would be a unanimous move by the Security Council on Iran this month. The impasse also has echoes of the Iraq war, they say, in that Russia is concerned about a possible replay of the United States' using resolutions by the Council to confront Iran in the same way it acted against Iraq. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, spoke Friday to try to close a crucial difference over the language of a possible Security Council statement on Iran, specifically the statement's reference to Iran's nuclear activities as ''a threat to international peace and security,'' various officials said. That wording, by implication, would open the door for further Security Council action against Iran. 
 Ms. Rice said Friday that Russian and American officials would work through the weekend to resolve their differences.
 The sensitive talks with Russia are only the latest in a series of difficulties that have strained relations in the last couple years. Among the irritants have been Russia's crackdown on dissent, its cutoff of natural gas shipments to Ukraine and its efforts to extend influence in the region.
 A new source of irritation could come with the disclosure from Iraqi documents that a possible Russian spy operation early in the Iraq war in 2003 provided Saddam Hussein with information about American war plans and troop movements.
 A senior State Department official said Saturday that the department was studying details related to the disclosure, and no decision had been made on whether to raise the matter diplomatically with the Russians. But American officials say that Russia is extremely sensitive over the Iraq war, and it has vowed not to let the United States use pressure from the Security Council on Iran as a means to authorize economic penalties or even military action. 
 Russia's foreign intelligence service has denied passing information the war plans. On Saturday, a state news agency, RIA, cited unidentified Russian security officials as saying that the American Defense Department study that included the documents seemed intended to punish Russia for opposing the 2003 invasion. ''This kind of unsubstantiated allegation against Russia's intelligence service has been voiced repeatedly,'' said Boris Labusov, a spokesman for the service. 
 A Western diplomat, referring to the Security Council discussions on Iran, and speaking on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are confidential, said: ''The Russians are worried that if you label Iran a threat to international peace, it's the beginning of a process. If there is going to be a solution, it will have to be negotiated by Lavrov and Rice.''
 The Bush administration had some hope over the weekend that the Russian-American talks could produce agreement soon. That contrasted with the mood early this week after a contentious session involving American, European, Russian and Chinese envoys at the United Nations.
 Bush administration officials have declined to discuss the possibility of penalties on Iran. They and European diplomats emphasize that any future penalties against Tehran would be structured to avoid strangling the Iranian economy as a whole and stirring anti-Western resentment among ordinary Iranians.
 The administration concern is that suffering by Iranians would delay the day of a more pro-Western government taking power in Tehran, undercutting a planned $85 million American program to subsidize Iranian dissidents, promote exchange programs and sponsor broadcasts to encourage pro-Western attitudes.
 Despite the desire to win over Iranians, the administration and its European partners have prepared a series of escalating economic and political penalties that could be ready for imposition on Iran by the summer, officials said.
 Those penalties, they said, would start with imposing travel bans or freezing foreign-held assets of Iranian officials, followed by a ban on commercial dealings with any businesses connected to Iran's military or to its nuclear programs.
 More sweeping bans on commercial, business and energy relations would be saved for later, various officials have said, adding that if the Security Council does not authorize penalties, European countries may act unilaterally after consultation with the United States.
 But a ban on military and nuclear energy dealings with Iran would have immediate economic effects on Russia, which has contracted with Iran to develop military defense systems and establish a civilian nuclear reactor on the Persian Gulf coast city of Bushehr. For its part, Russia argues that penalties would backfire and cut off what little cooperation Iran is still giving. 
 European diplomats also say that the Russians have raised objections to the American spending plan to encourage political change inside Iran. The plan is widely seen as analogous to efforts to bring about ''regime change'' in Iraq a few years ago.
 Iranian news media outlets, meanwhile, are praising Russia and China for trying to block a Security Council action that would impose penalties on Iran, according to Abbas Milani, director of Iranian studies at Stanford University. 
 ''The Iranian papers are bursting with stories about how China and Russia are not caving to the American pressure to punish Iran,'' Mr. Milani said. ''It's clear that they are trying to portray this as a victory for Iranian diplomacy, which has gotten Russia and China not to cave in to U.S. pressure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Russia; Great Britain; France; Germany; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



574 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4861 words

HEADLINE: Why Is Michael Steele a Republican Candidate?

BYLINE: By Michael Sokolove. 
Michael Sokolove, a contributing writer, wrote a cover article for the magazine last year about Senator Rick Santorum.

 BODY:
It was last spring when Karl Rove called Michael Steele, the lieutenant governor of Maryland, to sell him on running for the Senate, and to close the deal, Rove paused to put President Bush on the phone. As Steele recalls it, the president's adviser said, ''Here, the boss wants to talk to you.'' Steele froze, then demurred. ''I went, 'No, no thank you.' I was so stunned that he was going to hand the phone to the president. I said, 'That's all right, we'll have that call later.' I couldn't believe it.'' Other top Republicans called. Senator Elizabeth Dole. Ken Mehlman, the party chairman. One day Steele's cellphone rang, and Vice President Dick Cheney was on the other end. 
Steele is the first African-American elected to statewide office in Maryland, which is usually one of the most reliably Democratic states in the nation. The counties bordering Washington are relentlessly liberal, as is its largest city, Baltimore. Steele lives in Prince George's County, which used to be tobacco plantations and is now the wealthiest majority-black county in the United States and normally a huge trove of Democratic votes. But to a Republican Party intent on securing its ascendancy by building a new base among America's minorities, Maryland looks like a land of opportunity. And a place where Democrats might be caught sleeping.
 Open and personable, Steele had a prominent speaking role at the Republican convention in 2004, and by the following spring the Republican hierarchy was trying to coax him into the Senate race. The field was kept clear. Money was promised. It didn't matter that Steele lacked some of the attributes typical of a candidate running for high office. He was not a proven vote-getter, having ridden to victory as the running mate of Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., a popular congressman from outside Baltimore who became the state's first Republican governor elected in 36 years. Steele, who is 47, had no personal fortune to offer up to the cause, no campaign war chest. He had been an associate in a law firm, then left that job to open a consulting firm that struggled.
 What Steele had to offer, as a candidate, was personal biography, his inspiring life story: childhood in a poor section of Washington; college at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore; then three years studying for the priesthood at a monastery, where he wore the long white tunic of the Augustinian order before deciding that his call to service lay elsewhere. His mother had worked in a laundry, making the minimum wage; his stepfather drove a limo. His parents weren't educated themselves, but they valued learning and made sure the homework in their household got done. Steele's only sibling is Monica Turner, a Georgetown-educated pediatrician (as well as an ex-wife of Mike Tyson, the former heavyweight champ).
 The entreaties from top Republicans continued for weeks and months. Steele calculated his odds before formally jumping in. Numbers were crunched -- the 56 percent of the state's vote won by John Kerry; the well above 60 percent routinely captured by the state's Democratic senators, the four-term Barbara Mikulski and the five-term Paul Sarbanes, who is retiring. And there was another figure to consider: the estimated 28 percent of Maryland's population that is African-American. This is a greater percentage than in any state outside the Deep South, and it is what made Steele particularly attractive to his party leaders, who have made a cause of trying to chip away at the Democrats' most bedrock constituency. The G.O.P. has used so-called wedge issues -- with gay marriage leading the list -- on which churchgoing, socially conservative blacks may find affinity with Republican positions. Steele is socially conservative. And black. And Catholic. How much could he cut into the traditional Democratic vote? It might not have to be much to turn an election.
 Don't be an ''outreach pawn,'' Steele's friend Curt Anderson, a political consultant, warned him. By that, Anderson, former political director of the Republican National Committee, meant, Don't get into the race just so the party can say it is fielding a black candidate or so it can appear to be softening its image. ''I have a dim view of the typical Republican outreach,'' Anderson told me. ''It's like: Yeah, look, we have a black guy. We have a Hispanic guy. Look over there, we have a Jewish guy. It's surface. It never bears fruit. I told him: Don't do it for the Republican Party. Don't do it for the president. Do it for yourself. He had to ask himself, Can I win? Everything else is silly.''
 Steele, having calculated that victory was possible, made his formal announcement in October inside a community college gymnasium in Prince George's County, not far from where he lives with his wife and their two teenage sons. He talked about Martin Luther King Jr. and quoted Pope John Paul II but never mentioned George W. Bush. An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll had just measured President Bush's approval rating among black voters nationwide at a staggeringly low 2 percent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. So it seemed, in one sense, almost laughable that any Republican, white or black, should be casting for African-American votes.
 But in the weeks and months that followed, no Democrat who looked seriously at the state of Maryland could dismiss Steele. The midterm races, as always, will turn on a mix of national trends and local dynamics. And most of the in-state factors seem tilted in Steele's favor, none more so than the fact that the Democratic primary promises to be a free-for-all among more than a half-dozen candidates that will not be contested until mid-September, eight weeks before the general election. The winner could emerge battered and exhausted, with a campaign fund that will have to be replenished. Steele, meanwhile, will be fresh and ready to go -- ''just waitin' in the playground,'' as he puts it -- with millions to spend.
 Joe Trippi, who is advising Kweisi Mfume, the former congressman and one of the Democrats vying to oppose Steele, paints a sort of developing nightmare for his party. ''The Republicans are like the Chinese -- they think in terms of like a 50-year plan,'' Trippi, who was an architect of Howard Dean's 2004 presidential campaign, told me. ''Their goal is permanent realignment. What we have in Maryland is a national strategy against a party that is not strategizing at all.''
 Steele is just one of several black Republicans running in prominent races around the nation, most in Democratic-leaning states with large African-American electorates. Lynn Swann, who had a Hall of Fame career with the Pittsburgh Steelers, is the Republican nominee for governor in Pennsylvania, and Kenneth Blackwell, the secretary of state in Ohio, is likely to be the G.O.P. gubernatorial candidate in his state. Keith Butler, a minister and former city councilman in Detroit, is in a competitive race for the Republican nomination for Senate.
 If the Republicans can win in a state like Maryland because they pried away some of the black vote from the Democrats, Trippi said, ''It will be over.'' Over for whom? I asked. ''The Democrats,'' he responded. He didn't mean just in Maryland -- he meant in the whole country, because the electoral math for Democrats begins with an assumption of capturing something like 90 percent of the African-American vote.
 On a weekday afternoon in February, about 60 African-American women, most of them business owners -- real-estate agents, insurance brokers, restaurant owners, proprietors of stores -- sat in a tea shop inside an upscale mall in Prince George's County, awaiting the arrival of Michael Steele. They sipped herbal teas out of gold-rimmed white china cups and nibbled pastries and sweets arranged on three-tiered trays. Steele, a little late, strode into the room with a wide smile and immediately began moving from table to table, lingering just long enough at each one to be polite but not so long as to get bogged down.
 He is a big man, 6-foot-4, balding, gray around the temples, a little thick around the middle. His bearing is both regal and warm. He seemed to already know many of the women in the room. With them, he bent his big frame at the waist and expertly planted a kiss on the cheek. He seemed less like a powerful politician than like a young man raised in the local church, back in town and wearing a fine suit, who had made a success of himself and was now returning to tell everyone about it.
 He began his remarks by saying, ''I am the luckiest man in Prince George's County right now, because I am in a room of successful African-American women, and that's a powerful place to be.'' The women nodded and applauded. He continued in the same vein: ''You're out there. You're creating wealth. Legacy wealth. Like the Rockefellers, Vanderbilts, Oprah. Like Bob Johnson.''
 The shop, called Infusions Tea Cafe, was situated to attract shoppers looking to get off their feet and moviegoers filing out of the adjacent Magic Johnson multiplex. Steele kept referring back to the shop's owner, an African-American woman, as an exemplar of what might be possible in the future. Wouldn't it be great, he said, if this beautiful tea shop expanded out across the country, to New York, Boston, Chicago, California, Europe. He paused, then added, And Africa.
 Steele's speaking style is motivational. It is one reason he's good in front of students, for example. On policy, he can be maddeningly hard to pin down, which so far, at least, seems to be working as a strategy. One of his campaign's internal polls showed that moderate voters who like him think he's moderate, while his conservative backers consider him conservative.
 What he certainly knew, but never mentioned, was that his audience at Infusions was overwhelmingly made up of Democrats -- some of them active and well connected. Dorothy Bailey, a Democrat who helped put the program together and introduced Steele as ''this handsome man,'' is the former chairwoman of the Prince George's County Council. At another table was Manervia Riddick, whose husband served as chief of staff to the former two-term Maryland governor Parris Glendening; not far from her was Glenda Wilson, former chief of staff to a Democratic county executive in Prince George's, which has a population of 843,000 and is the most Democratic district in Maryland. Bailey has already thrown her support to Steele, while Riddick and some of the other women said they were just listening and still undecided.
 Republicans have been making two appeals to minority voters. One is on the social issues of abortion and gay marriage; the other is economic -- the contention that their conservative programs have more to offer those who want to help themselves. And never far below the surface is the emotional appeal to black voters that they have been taken for granted by the Democratic Party and by their own black elected officials. In consumer terms, the pitch is, You've shopped with them for generations, why don't you come down the street and see what we have to offer? ''We have a huge and important opportunity to offer people real choices,'' says Ken Mehlman, the G.O.P. chairman, who has made a personal cause of attracting more black voters and, as a native of Baltimore, has taken a keen interest in the Steele campaign.
 I asked Bailey, a handsome woman with close-cropped graying hair and a self-assured bearing, if she had ever supported a Republican before. ''Oh, no,'' she said. ''Never.'' On at least one key point, she disagrees with Steele. She is strongly in favor of abortion rights -- as, she suspects, the vast majority of the women at the tea shop were -- and Steele is staunchly against them. ''In life or politics, you make a list of 10 things that are important,'' Bailey told me. ''If you get 8 of those things, you're ahead of the game. You never get all 10.''
 In the short question-and-answer period after his remarks at the tea shop, no one asked Steele about abortion or any other potential points of conflict. He was asked about education, government loans for small businesses -- Steele has made a point of trying to direct a fair share of them to minorities -- and such traditional business concerns as permit issuance and ''red tape.''
 Steele's job as lieutenant governor is small, with no constitutionally mandated responsibilities. He has spent much of his time traveling the state of 5.5 million, promoting the governor's policies and at the same time getting himself known. But his status as the first black elected to statewide office, no matter the size of the job, is a point of pride for many African-Americans. (I heard him introduced before a speech at the Reginald F. Lewis African-American museum in Baltimore as ''living history.'') Conversely, because black Marylanders overwhelmingly vote Democratic, it is a point of irritation as well that it was the Republicans who fielded him. ''It was an embarrassment because they were able to say they were the party of opportunity, that the Democrats talk a good game but don't walk the walk,'' says Ike Leggett, a professor at Howard University School of Law and the former chairman of the Maryland Democratic Party.
 And the Democrats' response to the open Senate seat has rankled. Benjamin Cardin, a studious, respected (and white) Baltimore-area congressman, quickly locked up much of the big money and most of the big endorsements -- leaving Mfume, former chairman of the Black Congressional Caucus and onetime head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, to scrape for what was left. (Mfume's tenure at the N.A.A.C.P. was clouded by accusations -- which he has denied -- of favoritism toward women with whom he had relationships.) In a multicandidate race in which he is currently the only African-American, he may yet win the Democratic nomination. But if Cardin is Steele's opponent in the November election, the fact that the Republicans, not the Democrats, chose a black nominee could create a new wedge issue for the G.O.P.: resentment. Bailey told me that she might not have backed Steele if Mfume had been treated with more respect. ''Also,'' she said, ''Michael asked me for his support. Sometimes people like to be asked.''
 At the tea shop, Steele kept the focus on the broad themes of achievement and empowerment. Indirectly, he framed his campaign as an extension of the civil rights movement. He said that he had been raised by ''a sharecropper's daughter with a fifth-grade education.'' He congratulated all the women in the room for being ''modern-day trailblazers,'' adding a line that got big applause: ''You are a generation that does not have to worry about sitting at the lunch counter. You get to own the whole joint.''
 Steele's office in the historic Statehouse in Annapolis is the sort of high-ceilinged, grand room that inspires awe. As he ushered me in one afternoon, he related a bit of history: this was Thomas Jefferson's office in the early 1780's when the Continental Congress was meeting in Maryland. ''You know what?'' he added. ''Jefferson's probably saying, 'What's this brother doin' in my office?''' Then he let out a hearty laugh.
 One of Steele's strengths is his comfort in his own skin. He doesn't change who he is depending on the audience. He does not pretend to be a Republican who just happens to be black. He will refer to a black woman as a sister -- in his pronunciation, a ''sistuh.'' At one point he said to me, ''Education and economic development -- if you get those two bad boys right, then you're somewhere.''
 He said, as we talked in his office: ''I'm black. I'm a Republican. I'm a father, a husband, a former seminarian.''
 Steele is at his most comfortable when mining his own past, a form of self-mythology at which good politicians excel. He tells this kind of story: as a little boy, he and his first friend, a kid from the neighborhood named Alexander, gravitated toward each other in a local store. Alexander was white. The sight of these two boys together seemed to make some in the store uncomfortable, and his friend's parents pulled him away. ''I said to my mom: 'That's my friend Alexander. He's just like me.'''
 Why is he a Republican, anyway? Steele's answer is that it all goes back to his mother. (No politician ever lost votes by overreferencing his mother, who, in this case, was not made available for an interview.) In his neighborhood growing up, ''everyone -- cousins, friends and neighbors -- was always asking her why she didn't take public assistance. 'Why don't you stand in line and get a check?''' His mother, a Democrat with pictures of Martin Luther King Jr. and J.F.K. on the wall at home, would answer the same way every time: ''Because I don't want the government raising my kids.''
 That still didn't make Steele a Republican right away. As a young man, he worked on one of Marion Barry's mayoral campaigns in Washington. But, he told me, when he first heard Ronald Reagan, he equated Reagan's message with his mother's -- both preached self-reliance. He pointed to a picture behind him: an autographed portrait of Reagan, inscribed to Steele, on the same day the 40th president left office. ''That's one of my proudest possessions,'' he said.
 There was one family-related topic I wondered how Steele would handle. It's not unusual for politicians to have embarrassing relatives, but Steele's ex-brother-in-law is Mike Tyson, who served time in prison for rape and, famously, bit part of an opponent's ear off. Steele didn't at all mind talking about him. He is a man of grand themes, and one of them is family -- which in his mind Tyson still is. ''Let me tell you about Mike Tyson,'' he began when I asked what it was like being the former champ's brother-in-law. He was smiling, and it was clear that the subject genuinely delighted him. ''He is one of the most engaging and smartest guys I have ever had a chance to go toe to toe with in a debate. The first conversation I ever had with him, you know what we talked about? The philosophy of Mao Zedong.''
 Steele said he and Tyson speak occasionally and are on good terms. Tyson said recently that he wanted to campaign for him, which Steele said he would ''welcome in a heartbeat. He may be divorced from my sister, but I can't cast him aside. You embrace. You love. He is the father of my nieces and nephew. I've never sat in judgment of him, and I never would.''
 Senators cast votes on matters of substance and national import: up or down, yes or no. It is in this area that Steele is less comfortable -- and at his most vulnerable as a candidate. It is not always apparent if he can clearly enunciate where he stands -- or maybe he just doesn't want to. Even on some of the issues that are closest to his heart, he defaults to soft, imprecise language. Steele says that he is proudly ''pro-life'' but seemed to equivocate when I asked if he favors greater restrictions on abortion or its outright ban. ''The dance we do is, we put too much pressure and weight on one decision,'' he said, referring to Roe v. Wade. ''We have to re-evaluate that.'' He claimed that he was not advocating overturning the decision, only asking if we ''have to live with the reality of a decision that was made 33 years ago.''
 Steele is personally opposed to the death penalty, but he has not publicly expressed his opinion on Governor Ehrlich's having signed orders to let two executions go forward. Nor, he said, did he privately try to dissuade Ehrlich. He did, however, volunteer to undertake a study of the fairness of the death penalty to determine, specifically, if minorities and the poor in Maryland receive a disproportionate share of death sentences. ''I went to the governor and said, 'Can I take a look at this, and I'll let you know what I find?''' Steele explained. ''And the governor said, 'Cool.''' But that was in 2003, and three years later he has still not produced a finished report. 
 On the day we talked in Annapolis, sectarian violence in Iraq was raging with the potential to grow into civil war. But he characterized the prospect of civil war as, more or less, just one of the possible steps to democracy. ''The birth of democracy is an ugly process,'' he said. ''It's a lot like making sausage. Now, when it's done, it's good. Fried up, it's delicious. But to make it can be pretty nasty. So I don't sit back and judge the Iraqi democratic development as somehow out of kilter or somehow unexpected. I just go back to 1860, which was how many years past 1789? In that 70-year period, we went from a band of brothers to fighting each other.''
 On another occasion, when I asked Steele why most people considered him more conservative than Ehrlich, who supports abortion rights, he answered that he did not think any label could be applied to his politics. ''I'm conservative, but I'm also moderate,'' he said. ''As I like to tell people, I'm a little bit hip-hop and a little bit Frank Sinatra.''
 Politically, Steele is almost literally a moving target. I accompanied him on a visit to Fruitland, a tiny town on Maryland's Eastern Shore. It was his 50th municipal visit. He counts them. He's up to more than 70 now. A Steele supporter would say he is doing the state's business on these stop-bys, checking in with local folks on issues related to transportation, agriculture, business development, crime and so forth. A cynic would say that he has been on a four-year taxpayer-supported campaign to enhance his visibility and prep for higher office. Either way, it is hard to imagine holding a better job for commencing a statewide campaign. As lieutenant governor, he can mostly do what he wants, and what Steele has chosen is to see as much of Maryland as possible.
 In Fruitland, local elected officials and civic leaders had gathered in the wood-paneled meeting room of their town hall, seated in rows of mustard-colored plastic seats arranged on a worn-looking carpet. The room had a false ceiling and harsh lighting. A large tray of doughnuts was set out on a folding table. Greg Olinde, the president of the City Council, mentioned that his father was undergoing heart surgery at a nearby hospital but that he wanted to be there for Steele's visit because ''you don't get the lieutenant governor here every day.''
 Flanked by several state officials accompanying him, Steele took a seat in the front of the room. He offered one of his stock lines: ''I've concluded that Maryland is one big Main Street.'' He took questions on a range of local issues, and then the crowd piled into a Wicomico County school bus for a tour highlighted by a stop at the town's sewage-treatment plant. (Small-town politics is largely about development, and development is largely about the capacity of the treatment plant.) The plant had just been given an honor: cleanest effluent in the state of Maryland. Steele seemed sincerely impressed. ''I'll tell you,'' he said, ''this is one of the best plants I've been to.''
 He moved on that day from Fruitland to the even smaller town of Pittsville (and another sewage-treatment plant) and finally to Salisbury State University, and it was at that last stop, in front of an audience of students, that he showed yet another side of himself -- the candidate as a man under siege, attacked for daring to blaze a new trail. ''You know whatit's like to be called an Uncle Tom because you're a black Republican?'' he asked. He told them about what occurred in 2002 as he watched Ehrlich debate his Democratic opponent at Morgan State University in Baltimore. ''Folks started throwing Oreo cookies at me'' -- the Oreo, black on the outside, white on the inside, being intended to slur someone who has betrayed his race.
 The Oreos incident has been an off-and-on story for several years. An Ehrlich aide claimed that the cookies were ''thick in the air like locusts,'' almost certainly an exaggeration. News accounts told of the cookies being ''hurled'' and Steele being ''pelted.'' Democrats have charged Steele with inflating the episode to score political points, and some have privately hinted that maybe it never happened at all. When I asked Steele about it, he leaned over and spoke slowly and directly into my tape recorder to make his point. ''It happened. I was there. O.K.?'' He said he did not see the Oreos in the air, but when he got up, noticed them at his feet when he stepped on one and heard a crunching sound.
 Other incidents are not in dispute. A liberal African-American blogger in New York posted a crude, doctored photo of Steele with the caption ''I's Simple Sambo and I's running for the Big House'' -- easily ignored except that it triggered stories in The Washington Post, The Baltimore Sun and other papers that circulate in Maryland. Last fall, two staff members at the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee resigned after it was revealed that they had obtained copies of Steele's credit report.
 Steele is, of course, a big, inviting target. And fair game. There may also be a sense that he could unravel if pressed. He is sometimes careless with facts -- at Salisbury State, he told students concerned with rising tuition that he had gone to college ''in the days of 25 percent inflation'' (it actually ranged between 6.5 percent and 13.6 percent during his college years at Johns Hopkins, from 1977 to 1981) -- and he has a tendency to gravitate toward the kind of rhetorical minefields that more practiced public figures avoid. After speaking to a Jewish group in Baltimore last month, he had to apologize for seeming to draw a parallel between embryonic-stem-cell research and Nazi-era human experimentation. Two weeks later, at the tea shop in Prince George's County, he spoke about how black people do not always support black-owned businesses. ''You know how it goes,'' he said. ''Six months and it's gone. What happened to the chicken joint? The Chinese are now serving us chicken.''
 He seemed to catch himself heading into dangerous territory. ''Nothing against the Chinese,'' he quickly added.
 President Bush headlined a Steele fund-raiser in Baltimore in November and praised him as a ''a decent man . . . an honorable man . . . a family man'' and as someone who ''will help heal racial wounds.'' Then it was Steele's turn to speak. But as he stood at the lectern, towering over the president, he offered no specific praise for any of his policies.
 Steele seemed annoyed when I asked him about this later. ''So let me get this straight, I'm going to invite him to Maryland, the bluest of the blue states, where the president on a good day has 32 percent approval, which he probably had nationally at that time, 2 percent African-American approval, and you are going to focus on the fact that I did not say, 'Thank you, Mr. President?' I think it was enough that I had the president here when everyone told me not to. The thank-you was: 'Come on in. I'll take the risk. I'll take the heat.' That's how I look at it. 'Mr. President, you're not very popular right now. So what time are you showing up? What time are you getting here?'''
 With Iraq in turmoil and President Bush's approval ratings at record lows, the Democrats will try to nationalize the Maryland Senate race, as they will the entire midterm election. The Republicans, in turn, are mustering national support for Steele's race in Maryland. Rove headlined a fund-raiser for Steele last summer. Earlier this month, Steele attended a fund-raiser at the Upper East Side residence of Mallory Factor, a conservative moneyman who has been called the ''A.T.M. for Bush's America.'' Mehlman and his predecessor as party chief, Ed Gillespie, have taken a personal interest in the Steele campaign.
 Steele admires the legacy of families like the Rockefellers, but his associations don't exactly mark him as a Rockefeller Republican. ''He was bullied into getting into this race by the national Republicans,'' Derek Walker, executive director for the Maryland Democratic Party, says of Steele. He adds that Steele's views are ''very conservative'' and that he is ''trying to conceal his allegiance to the Republican machinery.''
 Whether Steele will become Maryland's next United States senator will depend partly on how effectively the Democrats can make those points -- and to what extent they'll even have the time and money to do so after their Sept. 12 primary. Time could work in Steele's favor in one other way: he may be able to make himself a more nimble candidate by the time the bright lights really find him.
 Steele refuses to discuss political tactics, saying that his advisers have warned him off such talk. But he did acknowledge that his ties to the president will be used against him, especially with African-American voters. ''I have to deal with the fact that my opponents will try to hang George Bush around my neck and make me some kind of right-wing ideologue who's in the back pocket of Karl Rove,'' Steele told me. ''So what I'll do is show up and look them in the eye and say: 'I know what you're thinking, now let's talk. Who do you think I am and what do you think I represent to the black community, and to the future?'''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 26 about Richard Steele, the lieutenant governor of Maryland, who is running for the Senate, misstated the name of a university where he spoke recently. It is Salisbury University, not Salisbury State.
An article in The Times Magazine on March 26 about the lieutenant governor of Maryland, who is running for the Senate, misstated the name of a university where he spoke recently, and a correction on Sunday misstated his given name. The lieutenant governor, who spoke at Salisbury University (not Salisbury State), is Michael Steele, not Richard.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Land of Opportunity: Steele, with Mayor Andrew C. Hanko of New Carrollton on his left, making his way through Maryland one municipality at a time.
 Visible Man: With J. Michael Downes, New Carrollton's city administrative officer, Mayor Hanko and Audrey Scott, Maryland's secretary of planning. (Photographs by Justin Steele for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Biographical Information; Elections; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (94%); KARL ROVE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); ELIZABETH DOLE (78%); DICK CHENEY (78%) Michael Sokolove; Michael S (Lt Gov) Steele; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Elizabeth (Sen) Dole

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%) MARYLAND, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Maryland; Maryland

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



575 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Robin Hood Joins the Sheriff's Department

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus. 
Laura Mansnerus reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THERE was Jon S. Corzine, at a debate in the 2000 Senate primary campaign, scolding former Gov. Jim Florio: If he had been the governor instead of Mr. Florio, the liberal outsider said, he would not have raised ''the most regressive'' tax -- the state sales tax. 
 And there was Jon S. Corzine at a public forum two weeks ago, deflecting a suggestion that he raise the tax on alcohol. One adviser stepped up and said, ''We ought to consider who the tax is going to impact.'' 
The same logic applies to the cigarette tax, now the second-highest in the nation. 
 And there was Mr. Corzine, in his budget address on Tuesday, announcing his plan to raise all three taxes. The state income tax would remain untouched.
 ''Your good Democratic governor with his progressive ideals is in fact pushing for a decidedly regressive tax that will burden the poorest people,'' David Brunori of Tax Analysis, a nonpartisan publisher of tax information, said of Mr. Corzine's sales tax proposal. ''If you combine it with the cigarette tax and the alcohol tax, that will push the burden to the bottom.''
 Surely that is not Mr. Corzine's idea of progress, so there must be some explanation. People in New Jersey politics say there are two: First, the budget is, as they say, a political document, and the governor appreciates the art of the possible. Second, the budget is one big business decision, and the governor has made a reasonable calculation about the risks of chasing rich people out of the state. 
 Either way, the message is the same: Progressive public policy is a nice pursuit, if you are a Wall Street type breaking into politics. But if you are the governor it's a bit naive. 
 For someone like Mr. Corzine, who presumably still inclines toward soaking the rich, the political facts are very inconvenient. Forget the Legislature for a moment. Voters do not always like what is good for them, or what tax-policy mavens say is good for them. In a Quinnipiac poll this month, New Jerseyans said by a 2-to-1 ratio that they would prefer a higher sales tax to a higher income tax.
 Former Gov. James E. McGreevey had to campaign frantically in 2004 for his ''millionaire's tax'' -- which everyone has taken to calling the half-millionaire's tax because the higher tax rate applies to incomes over $500,000. It was not an easy sell.
 Mr. Brunori said that Mr. Corzine's proposed sales-tax increase, to 7 cents from 6 cents, ''percentage-wise is a massive increase'' but that the governor was just acting like governors do. ''The vast majority of governors prefer to raise sales taxes over income taxes,'' he said. ''There's a perception that income taxes deter economic development and growth. Also, politicians somehow can rationalize in their minds that you have some control over how much tax you pay.'' 
 And then Mr. Corzine had difficult economic facts. Whether steeply progressive income taxes do deter economic growth is debatable, and the treasurer's office says it cannot tell what effect the half-millionaire's tax has had. But many in both parties say the state would suffer in the long run by alienating rich people, and Mr. Corzine apparently agrees. 
 ''Jon Corzine is absolutely a progressive Democrat to his bones,'' said Orin Kramer, a fund-raiser who helped usher Mr. Corzine into the state's Democratic circles. ''But he also recognizes that there's a point at which you drive out your tax base.
 ''The average family in New Jersey making $75,000 a year is paying a greater percentage of its income in state and local taxes than a family making $5 million a year,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''But the family earning $5 million a year believes they're being treated unfairly.'' 
 Mr. Kramer said he was ''shocked by the number of people who I keep hearing making reference to Florida'' -- people who by spending a few more weeks there can turn a second home into a primary residence and escape income taxes.
 Mr. Corzine's $30.9 billion budget does demonstrate some impulses that Ralph Nader could share. He proposes expanding the sales tax to services, prominently mentioning golf club memberships and landscaping. He would extend the income-tax exemption to all families making less than $25,000 a year and increase credits for those between $25,000 and $30,000. He wants a luxury tax on expensive cars. 
 As for the ''most regressive'' tax, Mr. Corzine may have changed his mind since that debate with Mr. Florio six years ago. In his more recent statements, he gives that distinction to the hated property tax. On that matter, his budget contains mixed messages. He proposes increasing property-tax rebates slightly from last year, when they were cut in half, but will not restore them to previous levels -- which breaks a central campaign promise.
 Mr. Florio might recall the dressing-down, in which Mr. Corzine noted that Mr. Florio had promised when he ran for governor not to raise taxes. If he had been in Mr. Florio's shoes, candidate Corzine said, he would never have made such a promise in the first place.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon S. Corzine's $30.9 billion budget includes a number of tax increases. (Photo by Mel Evans/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POOR POPULATION (73%); INCOME TAX (73%) Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Taxation; Smoking and Tobacco; Alcoholic Beverages; Sales Tax

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%) Laura Mansnerus; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



576 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Schools Cut Back Subjects To Push Reading and Math

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
Thousands of schools across the nation are responding to the reading and math testing requirements laid out in No Child Left Behind, President Bush's signature education law, by reducing class time spent on other subjects and, for some low-proficiency students, eliminating it.
 Schools from Vermont to California are increasing -- in some cases tripling -- the class time that low-proficiency students spend on reading and math, mainly because the federal law, signed in 2002, requires annual exams only in those subjects and punishes schools that fall short of rising benchmarks.
 The changes appear to principally affect schools and students who test below grade level. 
 The intense focus on the two basic skills is a sea change in American instructional practice, with many schools that once offered rich curriculums now systematically trimming courses like social studies, science and art. A nationwide survey by a nonpartisan group that is to be made public on March 28 indicates that the practice, known as narrowing the curriculum, has become standard procedure in many communities. 
 The survey, by the Center on Education Policy, found that since the passage of the federal law, 71 percent of the nation's 15,000 school districts had reduced the hours of instructional time spent on history, music and other subjects to open up more time for reading and math. The center is an independent group that has made a thorough study of the new act and has published a detailed yearly report on the implementation of the law in dozens of districts.
 ''Narrowing the curriculum has clearly become a nationwide pattern,'' said Jack Jennings, the president of the center, which is based in Washington.
 At Martin Luther King Jr. Junior High School in Sacramento, about 150 of the school's 885 students spend five of their six class periods on math, reading and gym, leaving only one 55-minute period for all other subjects. 
 About 125 of the school's lowest-performing students are barred from taking anything except math, reading and gym, a measure that Samuel Harris, a former lieutenant colonel in the Army who is the school's principal, said was draconian but necessary. ''When you look at a kid and you know he can't read, that's a tough call you've got to make,'' Mr. Harris said.
 The increasing focus on two basic subjects has divided the nation's educational establishment. Some authorities, including Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings, say the federal law's focus on basic skills is raising achievement in thousands of low-performing schools. Other experts warn that by reducing the academic menu to steak and potatoes, schools risk giving bored teenagers the message that school means repetition and drilling. 
 ''Only two subjects? What a sadness,'' said Thomas Sobol, an education professor at Columbia Teachers College and a former New York State education commissioner. ''That's like a violin student who's only permitted to play scales, nothing else, day after day, scales, scales, scales. They'd lose their zest for music.''
 But officials in Cuero, Tex., have adopted an intensive approach and said it was helping them meet the federal requirements. They have doubled the time that all sixth graders and some seventh and eighth graders devote to reading and math, and have reduced it for other subjects. 
 ''When you only have so many hours per day and you're behind in some area that's being hammered on, you have to work on that,'' said Henry Lind, the schools superintendent. ''It's like basketball. If you can't make layups, then you've got to work on layups.'' 
 Chad Colby, a spokesman for the federal Department of Education, said the department neither endorsed nor criticized schools that concentrated instructional time on math and reading as they sought to meet the test benchmarks laid out in the federal law's accountability system, known as adequate yearly progress.
 ''We don't choose the curriculum,'' Mr. Colby said. ''That's a decision that local leaders have to make. But for every school you point to, I can show you five other schools across the country where students are still taking a well-rounded curriculum and are still making adequate yearly progress. I don't think it's unreasonable to ask our schools to get kids proficient at grade level in reading and math.''
 Since America's public schools began taking shape in the early 1800's, shifting fashions have repeatedly reworked the curriculum. Courses like woodworking and sewing joined the three R's. After World War I, vocational courses, languages and other subjects broadened the instructional menu into a smorgasbord.
 A federal law passed after the Russian launching of Sputnik in 1957 spurred a renewed emphasis on science and math, and a 1975 law that guaranteed educational rights for the disabled also provoked sweeping change, said William Reese, a professor at the University of Wisconsin and author of ''America's Public Schools: From the Common School to No Child Left Behind.'' But the education law has leveraged one of the most abrupt instructional shifts, he said.
 ''Because of its emphasis on testing and accountability in particular subjects, it apparently forces some school districts down narrow intellectual paths,'' Dr. Reese said. ''If a subject is not tested, why teach it?'' 
 The shift has been felt in the labor market, heightening demand for math teachers and forcing educators in subjects like art and foreign languages to search longer for work, leaders of teachers groups said. 
 The survey coming out this week looks at 299 school districts in 50 states. It was conducted as part of a four-year study of No Child Left Behind and appears to be the most systematic effort to track the law's footprints through the classroom, although other authorities had warned of its effect on teaching practices.
 The historian David McCullough told a Senate Committee last June that because of the law, ''history is being put on the back burner or taken off the stove altogether in many or most schools, in favor of math and reading.'' 
 The report says that at districts in Colorado, Texas, Vermont, California, Nebraska and elsewhere, math and reading are squeezing other subjects. At one district cited, the Bayonne City Schools in New Jersey, low-performing ninth graders will be barred from taking Spanish, music or any other elective next fall so they can take extra periods of math and reading, said Ellen O'Connor, an assistant superintendent. 
 ''We're using that as a motivation,'' Dr. O'Connor said. ''We're hoping they'll concentrate on their math and reading so they can again participate in some course they love.''
 At King Junior High, in a poor neighborhood in Sacramento a few miles from a decommissioned Air Force base, the intensive reading and math classes have raised test scores for several years running. That has helped Larry Buchanan, the superintendent of the Grant Joint Union High School District, which oversees the school, to be selected by an administrators' group as California's 2005 superintendent of the year. 
 But in spite of the progress, the school's scores on California state exams, used for compliance with the federal law, are increasing not nearly fast enough to allow the school to keep up with the rising test benchmarks. On the math exams administered last spring, for instance, 17.4 percent of students scored at the proficient level or above, and on the reading exams, only 14.9 percent.
 With scores still so low, Mr. Harris, the school's principal, and Mr. Buchanan said they had little alternative but to continue remedial instruction for the lower-achieving among the school's nearly 900 students. 
 The students are the sons and daughters of mostly Hispanic, black and Laotian Hmong parents, many of whom work as gardeners, welders and hotel maids or are unemployed. The district administers frequent diagnostic tests so that teachers can carefully calibrate lessons to students' needs.
 Ruben Jimenez, a seventh grader whose father is a construction laborer, has a schedule typical of many students at the school, with six class periods a day, not counting lunch. 
 Ruben studies English for the first three periods, and pre-algebra and math during the fourth and fifth. His sixth period is gym. How does he enjoy taking only reading and math, a recent visitor asked. 
 ''I don't like history or science anyway,'' Ruben said. But a moment later, perhaps recalling something exciting he had heard about lab science, he sounded ambivalent.
 ''It'd be fun to dissect something,'' he said.
 Martin Lara, Ruben's teacher, said the intense focus on math was paying off because his math skills were solidifying. Ruben said math had become his favorite subject. 
 But other students, like Paris Smith, an eighth grader, were less enthusiastic. Last semester, Paris failed one of the two math classes he takes, back to back, each morning. 
 ''I hate having two math classes in a row,'' Paris said. ''Two hours of math is too much. I can't concentrate that long.''
 Donna Simmons, his mother, said Mr. Lara seemed to be working hard to help Paris understand math.
 ''The school cares,'' Ms. Simmons said. ''The faculty cares. I want him to keep trying.''
 Sydney Smith, a vice principal who oversees instruction at the school, said she had heard only minimal grumbling from students excluded from electives.
 ''I've only had about two students come to my office and say: 'What in the world? I'm just taking two courses?' '' Ms. Smith said. ''So most students are not complaining about being miserable.''
 But Lorie Turner, who teaches English to some pupils for three consecutive periods and to others for two periods each day, said she used some students' frustration to persuade them to try for higher scores on the annual exams administered under California's Standardized Testing and Reporting program, known as Star. 
 ''I have some little girls who are dying to get out of this class and get into a mainstream class,'' Ms. Turner said. ''But I tell them the only way out is to do better on that Star test.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vang Lee, a seventh grader at Martin Luther King Jr. Junior High School in Sacramento, worked on an English lesson recently.
Martin Lara, a math teacher at King Junior High, said the intense focus was paying off for one of his students, whose skills were improving.
About 150 students at the school spend five of their six class periods on math, reading and gym, leaving only one period for all other subjects.
 Devars Dean, left, and Inerik Salas, seventh graders at King Junior High, where intensive reading and math classes have raised test scores. (Photographs by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%) Education and Schools; Reading and Writing Skills; Mathematics; Tests and Testing; Teachers and School Employees; Law and Legislation ; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Center on Education Policy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%) Sam Dillon

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



577 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: With an Eye on Politics, Edwards Makes Poverty His Cause

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: CHAPEL HILL, N.C., March 25 

 BODY:
As he sought the Democratic Party's presidential nomination in 2004 and later as John Kerry's running mate, John Edwards talked about poverty more than any other candidate.
 But when he spoke on the campaign trail about what he referred to as the ''two Americas,'' he told a conference on poverty here this week, ''people called it a downer.''
Now Mr. Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina and a presumed contender for his party's 2008 presidential nomination, has made curbing poverty the centerpiece of his work and his political approach. 
 This is his true passion, he said in an interview, and he thinks that voters may be more responsive in the coming years, both because the middle class is becoming less secure and because of a shared sense of fairness.
 ''I think there is political traction in helping people help themselves,'' he said, emphasizing that he also believed that ''if you can work, you should work, and parents should be responsible for their children.'' 
 ''I think that for most Americans, what they saw on TV from the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans was just not right,'' he said, referring to the severe poverty revealed there after Hurricane Katrina.
 Mr. Edwards was the organizer and the most assiduous note-taker at the poverty conference, sponsored by the Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina, an organization that he founded and directs. 
 The meeting drew more than 200 scholars and leaders of private antipoverty agencies to discuss issues like the problems of the working poor and the effects globalization has on labor. 
 The challenge, Mr. Edwards and other speakers said, is not just to devise better ways to fight poverty but to find strategies with broad appeal. 
 Some of the scholars offered, if not cheerful data, themes that they said might grab the attention of middle-income Americans. Many of the same economic trends that hurt the poor, the experts said, are also creating ''a harsh new world of economic insecurity for middle-class families,'' in the words of Jacob S. Hacker, a political scientist at Yale. 
 Mr. Hacker described a decline in shared safety nets, like health insurance, that leave more families confronting medical crises or job losses without assistance. 
 Rising costs for housing, health care and other necessities have affected middle-class families as well as the poor, said Elizabeth Warren, an expert on family bankruptcy and a law professor at Harvard. Even with more mothers now working outside the home, Ms. Warren said, families have more debt, fewer reserves and more volatile incomes than they did a few decades ago. 
 ''It used to be that if you worked hard you'd be in the middle class and have a secure retirement,'' she said, ''but the rules have changed.'' Policies to improve the security of the middle class will also help the poor, she added. 
 Several scholars lamented the racial and class disparities in family assets, including home equity and other savings, a topic that receives less attention than those disparities in income. Income is used to get by, they said, but assets provide a safety net and a means to climb ahead. Helping low-income people buy homes and using tax credits to encourage savings accounts were among the potential answers put forth. 
 In interviews, several scholars said they were grateful for the chance to discuss research and issues, though they said they knew that Mr. Edwards was most likely banking ideas for a political campaign. 
 ''We'll say whatever we want to say,'' said Kathryn Edin, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania. ''But as academics who do this kind of work, we're eager to discuss our work with political leaders.''
 Mr. Edwards said that after his decision not to run for re-election to the Senate in 2004 and the defeat of the Kerry-Edwards ticket, he talked with friends and his wife about how to spend his time. They all agreed, he said, that ''I really lit up when I talked about poverty.'' 
 Beyond directing the poverty center, a part of the university law school, Mr. Edwards has campaigned in several states for initiatives to raise the minimum wage and on behalf of unions for service sector groups like hotel workers. 
 Those attending this week's conference offered no simple answers to the challenge of globalization, which brings consumer benefits but has cost factory jobs, especially here in the onetime textile belt of North Carolina. 
 Mr. Edwards has shied away from calls for protectionism. But he said that promoting unions, and thus better pay and conditions, in the expanding service sector ''is an example where we can have a real impact without endangering our economic position in the world.'' 
 ''Those jobs aren't going anywhere,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Senator John Edwards speaking at the University of North Carolina for a conference on poverty that he organized. (Photo by Gerry Broome/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PARENTING (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); TRENDS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); HURRICANES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (82%) University of North Carolina

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%) Erik Eckholm; John Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006



578 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

As Knight Ridder Papers Come Up for Sale, Potential Buyers Look to Solidify Markets
With the McClatchy newspaper company set to accept bids for the 12 Knight Ridder papers it is selling, some of the potential buyers are looking at the country as they would a giant chessboard. The goal is to become a leader in each regional market where potential buyers already own newspapers and can achieve economies of scale by buying pieces of Knight Ridder. [Page C1.] 


Sheer Size of Windows Causes Delays for Microsoft
As Microsoft repeatedly delays the new version of its desktop operating system, called Windows Vista, it appears that the company is a victim of its own popularity. [C1.]

Fed Appears Ready for Its 15th Rate Increase
Today, Ben S. Bernanke will convene his first meeting of the Fed's policy makers, joining the other Fed governors and the presidents of the Fed's regional banks in a two-day session that is all but certain to end tomorrow afternoon with another quarter-point rise in short-term interest rates, the 15th consecutive increase. [C1.]

A Computerized Courtroom for Nuclear Waste Case
In anticipation of a marathon hearing on the question of burying nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain in Nevada, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has built two linked, computerized courtrooms -- one on the second floor of its office complex in Maryland and one in Las Vegas. The system will permit lawyers and others who are involved in the hearing to search millions of pages of records almost instantly, calling them to their own screen or those of other participants. [C8.]

Online Retail Services Search for the Best Deal
Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp is among several companies offering comparison shopping software. The company recently rolled out Pronto, which silently monitors users' activity on a product page, then shows them prices from other merchants on similar items until it finds a better deal. Pronto is already showing up in links at the bottom of other InterActive sites, like Ticketmaster.com and CitySearch, and according to Pronto's chief executive, Dan Marriott, left, more substantial marketing initiatives with AskJeeves and other sister sites could follow. Pronto's software, which works on Windows machines, connects users to Pronto's database of 50,000 merchants, which it has built by scanning retailers' Web pages. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C9.]

HBO Explores 'Sex and the City' as Reality Show
HBO is in the process of commissioning a reality pilot that could tackle many of the themes of ''Sex and the City,'' the most popular comedy in the channel's history. The show is billed as a look at young urban women and their relationships with men and each other. [C11.]

Nielsen and Cable Company May Test On-Demand Service
Time Warner Cable has begun talks with CBS, ABC, Fox and NBC about testing a service that would give viewers access to top programs, as rated by Nielsen Media Research, soon after their broadcast. [C10.]

Church Aims to Spread Gospel Through Marketing
The United Church of Christ, which raised eyebrows with a provocative television commercial last spring, is resuming its advertising efforts with a campaign that seeks to emulate how the Gospel was spread: by word of mouth. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C10.]

Two Apples to Square Off in Court
Apple Computer will meet the Beatles' Apple Corps in court this week in London, where a judge will determine whether Apple Computer's iTunes online music service violates a 1991 agreement between the two companies that, the Beatles' Apple claims, blocked the computer maker from selling music. [C8.]

Company Aims to Challenge Traditional News Services
This week, Mochila, a service that calls itself a media marketplace, will be introduced at Nexpo, an annual newspaper industry conference. Mochila will be a place where newspapers, magazines, Web sites and broadcasters sell content to other publications. Initially, Mochila will only allow the exchange of text and photographs, but it plans to add audio and video content. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); ENERGY REGULATION (66%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (65%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (65%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (65%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARRY DILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



579 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: North of the Border

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
Bob Herbert is on vacation.

 BODY:
''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,'' wrote Emma Lazarus, in a poem that still puts a lump in my throat. I'm proud of America's immigrant history, and grateful that the door was open when my grandparents fled Russia.
 In other words, I'm instinctively, emotionally pro-immigration. But a review of serious, nonpartisan research reveals some uncomfortable facts about the economics of modern immigration, and immigration from Mexico in particular. If people like me are going to respond effectively to anti-immigrant demagogues, we have to acknowledge those facts. 
First, the net benefits to the U.S. economy from immigration, aside from the large gains to the immigrants themselves, are small. Realistic estimates suggest that immigration since 1980 has raised the total income of native-born Americans by no more than a fraction of 1 percent. 
 Second, while immigration may have raised overall income slightly, many of the worst-off native-born Americans are hurt by immigration -- especially immigration from Mexico. Because Mexican immigrants have much less education than the average U.S. worker, they increase the supply of less-skilled labor, driving down the wages of the worst-paid Americans. The most authoritative recent study of this effect, by George Borjas and Lawrence Katz of Harvard, estimates that U.S. high school dropouts would earn as much as 8 percent more if it weren't for Mexican immigration.
 That's why it's intellectually dishonest to say, as President Bush does, that immigrants do ''jobs that Americans will not do.'' The willingness of Americans to do a job depends on how much that job pays -- and the reason some jobs pay too little to attract native-born Americans is competition from poorly paid immigrants.
 Finally, modern America is a welfare state, even if our social safety net has more holes in it than it should -- and low-skill immigrants threaten to unravel that safety net. 
 Basic decency requires that we provide immigrants, once they're here, with essential health care, education for their children, and more. As the Swiss writer Max Frisch wrote about his own country's experience with immigration, ''We wanted a labor force, but human beings came.'' Unfortunately, low-skill immigrants don't pay enough taxes to cover the cost of the benefits they receive. 
 Worse yet, immigration penalizes governments that act humanely. Immigrants are a much more serious fiscal problem in California than in Texas, which treats the poor and unlucky harshly, regardless of where they were born.
 We shouldn't exaggerate these problems. Mexican immigration, says the Borjas-Katz study, has played only a ''modest role'' in growing U.S. inequality. And the political threat that low-skill immigration poses to the welfare state is more serious than the fiscal threat: the disastrous Medicare drug bill alone does far more to undermine the finances of our social insurance system than the whole burden of dealing with illegal immigrants. 
 But modest problems are still real problems, and immigration is becoming a major political issue. What are we going to do about it?
 Realistically, we'll need to reduce the inflow of low-skill immigrants. Mainly that means better controls on illegal immigration. But the harsh anti-immigration legislation passed by the House, which has led to huge protests -- legislation that would, among other things, make it a criminal act to provide an illegal immigrant with medical care -- is simply immoral.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Bush's plan for a ''guest worker'' program is clearly designed by and for corporate interests, who'd love to have a low-wage work force that couldn't vote. Not only is it deeply un-American; it does nothing to reduce the adverse effect of immigration on wages. And because guest workers would face the prospect of deportation after a few years, they would have no incentive to become integrated into our society.
 What about a guest-worker program that includes a clearer route to citizenship? I'd still be careful. Whatever the bill's intentions, it could all too easily end up having the same effect as the Bush plan in practice -- that is, it could create a permanent underclass of disenfranchised workers.
 We need to do something about immigration, and soon. But I'd rather see Congress fail to agree on anything this year than have it rush into ill-considered legislation that betrays our moral and democratic principles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); WRITERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



580 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Reform Leader Suffers Setback In Ukraine Vote

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Nikolai Khalip contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Monday, March 27 

 BODY:
President Viktor A. Yushchenko, who led a wave of popular protest to office promising a freer Ukraine aligned with Europe and the United States, suffered a stunning political defeat in parliamentary elections on Sunday, leaving him weakened and his reformist policies in doubt.
 Mr. Yushchenko called the vote for a new and newly empowered Parliament ''the first fair, democratic elections in Ukraine,'' and his party appeared to have been routed. 
 Nearly a year and a half after the protests and international pressure swept Mr. Yushchenko to the presidency, his party fell far behind not only the party of the man he beat for the top job, Viktor F. Yanukovich, but also the party of his former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, according to an independent survey of voters leaving the polls, announced by the Democratic Initiatives Foundation, after voting ended at 10 p.m. on Sunday. 
 Mr. Yanukovich's Party of Regions, which the survey showed with 33 percent of the vote, was poised to win the largest bloc of seats in the 450-seat Parliament, but not enough to win control outright. Ms. Tymoshenko's bloc received 22 percent, while Mr. Yushchenko's party, Our Ukraine, trailed in a distant third place, with only 13 percent, according to the survey. 
 Mr. Yanukovich, the former prime minister whose supporters were accused of having rigged the presidential race against Mr. Yushchenko in November 2004, declared ''a decisive victory,'' using the sort of language that rallied those against him and his patron, the former president, Leonid D. Kuchma. ''Ukraine made its choice,'' he said. ''Its choice is freedom, democracy, stability and confidence in the future.''
 Mr. Yanukovich's strength is less a reflection of his political successes than it is of the failings of Mr. Yushchenko, whose reputation at home has suffered from one problem after another despite his image abroad as a reform-minded democrat.
 His inability to help improve the weak economy and lessen the country's reliance on Russian gas, which caused painful shortages this winter in a price dispute, deeply hurt him. 
 The election results set the stage for a period of political jockeying that could last for days or even weeks before a new government is formed. Much will depend on the success of an array of smaller parties that needed to win at least 3 percent of the vote to secure seats. 
 The voting was the first electoral test of the sweeping changes Mr. Yushchenko promised during the huge street protests that came to be known as the ''Orange Revolution.''
 If the results of the voter survey hold, the election will underscore the disastrous turnaround in Mr. Yushchenko's political fate, leaving him forced to compromise. 
 At stake are Mr. Yushchenko's stated policy goals, including integrating Ukraine into the European Union and NATO. Mr. Yanukovich's party has promised to restore economic stability and forge closer ties with Russia. 
 The election has added significance for Ukraine, a country of 47 million on the edge of a newly expanded European Union, because of a political compromise that cleared the way for Mr. Yushchenko's presidency. Under constitutional changes adopted then, the new Parliament will have the power to choose the prime minister and most of the cabinet, though Mr. Yushchenko will retain control over foreign affairs and security ministries.
 Mr. Yushchenko's party now faces a choice of whether to repair the fractured coalition with Ms. Tymoshenko, who served as his first prime minister until a falling out amid infighting over policy and accusations of corruption, or possibly to face a hostile government. Together, their parties still drew more votes than Mr. Yanukovich's, according to the voter survey, but her showing increased her leverage in the talks.
 Without Ms. Tymoshenko's support, Mr. Yushchenko's only other choice would be an improbable alliance with Mr. Yanukovich. The president remained noncommittal on Sunday, saying in televised remarks that he was considering ''all kinds of various combinations.'' 
 Later, though, as the gravity of his party's poor showing became clear, Mr. Yushchenko's aides said they were prepared to revive the ''orange'' coalition. The mood at the party's headquarters was funereal, despite rock bands that performed on the central square of Kiev, the capital, and videos that evoked the 2004 protests there. 
 A scheduled appearance by the current prime minister and leader of the party, Yury I. Yekhanurov, was abruptly canceled without explanation early Monday morning.
 Ms. Tymoshenko, by contrast, clearly relished a result that provided a measure of vengeance after her dismissal last September. She said those who supported the Orange Revolution were still a majority -- now led by her, her remarks suggested, though she stopped short of declaring her insistence on becoming prime minister again.
 ''I would not like us to let the people down again,'' she said.
 Although Mr. Yanukovich's party complained of widespread irregularities ahead of Sunday's vote, including names missing from voter lists or Russian ones mistranslated into Ukrainian, there were few immediate reports of fraud or significant disruptions. But long lines formed as voters slogged through a ballot with 45 parties, and a homemade firebomb damaged one polling place in the Kiev region.
 For many of those who voted, the significance was not in the results, but in the process. They described a Ukraine that was freer and more democratic, if also unruly and still divided along the same ethnic, social and political lines of 2004.
 ''It is already a big victory,'' Mr. Yushchenko said, putting the best face on his party's performance.
 The survey of voters was carried out for the Democratic Initiatives Foundation by the Razumkov Center and the Kiev International Institute of Sociology, which is part of the Kiev-Mohyla Academy. Final results are not expected at least until late Monday, and perhaps later. 
 Critics of Mr. Yushchenko's performance as president welcomed the freedom of choice.
 Maria I. Kompaneyets, 63, said that she voted for Mr. Yanukovich in 2004, but that she had hopes that Mr. Yushchenko would use his popular mandate to improve life in Ukraine, especially the economy and pensions, recurrent complaints among those less well off.
 ''Nothing changed, at least nothing changed for better, neither in the country nor in our own life,'' she said, as she voted with her husband, Pyotr. ''Of course we had hopes. So much had been said in those days. Who could expect that it would turn out so bad?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A polling place in a town near Kiev, Ukraine, with posters of candidates in yesterday's parliamentary election. (Photo by Sergei Chuzavkov/Associated Press)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Public Opinion; United States International Relations

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (92%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (73%) Steven Lee Myers; Viktor A (Pres) Yushchenko; Viktor F Yanukovich

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%) UKRAINE (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Ukraine; Europe; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



581 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Two Senators Leaving China In Mild Dispute

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 26 

 BODY:
After a weeklong trip to China, two senators who have been pushing Chinese leaders to devalue their nation's currency say they do not agree on how much progress China is making. The split indicates that they are less likely to press for a Senate vote on their trade bill this week. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, have introduced legislation that would impose a 27.5 percent tariff on all American imports from China in two years unless officials in Beijing allowed ''substantial'' appreciation in the exchange value of their currency, the yuan.
 After a week of meetings with high-ranking officials in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong, Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham both said in an interview here Saturday that they remained committed to advancing the legislation unless China allowed the yuan to move higher against the dollar. 
 But they also said that Senator Schumer had been more impressed than Senator Graham by promises from Chinese officials to liberalize their currency policies.
 Asked whether the newest development from the trip was the emergence of some differences between the two men, Mr. Schumer replied, ''That would be fair.''
 He said that his views on China's trade and monetary policy had evolved as a result of the trip, and that he believed that the Chinese were taking steps to let the market determine their currency's value.
 Senator Graham took the same stance he had before. ''The status quo is devastating to industries back home,'' he said.
 Each said he had not made a final decision on whether to follow through on the previous threat to force a Senate vote by Friday.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Monday about the trip to China by Senators Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey Graham misstated their position on China's handling of its currency, the yuan. They want China to allow the yuan to move higher against the dollar; they do not want it devalued.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); DEVALUATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (51%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Law and Legislation; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (90%) Keith Bradsher; Lindsey (Sen) Graham; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



582 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Schumer Goes to China

 BODY:
The good news is that Senators Lindsey Graham and Charles Schumer have started to inch away from their misguided attempt to club China for its currency policies. At the end of a fact-finding trip last week, Mr. Schumer told reporters he was no longer sure he would push for a vote to impose tariffs on Chinese imports into the United States. ''The jury is out,'' he said. But, he said, ''we are more optimistic that this can be worked out than we were in the past.'' 
 Maybe the chance to talk face-to-face with Chinese on their home turf is what it took to make Mr. Graham and Mr. Schumer realize that just as trade is a two-way street, so too are sanctions. If lawmakers actually went ahead with the Schumer-Graham bill, which would impose 27.5 percent tariffs -- a staggering amount -- on Chinese goods, they would be accomplishing little to cut American unemployment, while hurting poor Americans who rely on inexpensive goods and poor Chinese whose livelihoods depend on making those products.
The Schumer-Graham bill is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of the root cause of America's economic problems. No question, the United States trade deficit and the loss of American manufacturing jobs are very serious. But most of the imbalance with China is caused by Americans' insatiable appetite for Chinese imports for which there are few domestic substitutes. While it's unfortunate that the textile industry has all but faded away in this country, the fact is that few American factories make things like low-priced apparel any longer. 
 As for the yuan, China clearly needs a more flexible currency, both for the sake of trade relations and to gain more control over its economy. But moving the yuan could cause pain in the United States. America's lack of savings is the biggest contributor to global imbalances, making it necessary to ''import'' billions of dollars of foreign capital daily to cover budget and trade deficits. China is America's second-most-important lender, after Japan.
 As long as China links the yuan to the dollar, it needs to keep the American currency stable. If China loosened its currency's peg to the dollar, or removed it altogether, it wouldn't need to buy up dollar-based assets at its current torrid pace. The result could be a rise, even a sharp rise, in United States interest rates and, as a corollary, a fall-off in economic growth. 
 Thus far the Bush administration has resisted calls to accuse China of currency manipulation, but Treasury Secretary John Snow last month hinted that could change. That too, would be a mistake. The administration has done a fair job so far in its tap dance around America's relationship with the world's fastest-growing economy. Now is not the time to slide back into election-year shortsightedness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); TEXTILES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Customs (Tariff); Currency; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (92%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Lindsey (Sen) Graham

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



583 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2712 words

HEADLINE: Vague Law and Hard Lobbying Add Up to Billions for Big Oil 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
It was after midnight and every lawmaker in the committee room wanted to go home, but there was still time to sweeten a deal encouraging oil and gas companies to drill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 ''There is no cost,'' declared Representative Joe L. Barton, a Texas Republican who was presiding over Congressional negotiations on the sprawling energy bill last July. An obscure provision on new drilling incentives was ''so noncontroversial,'' he added, that senior House and Senate negotiators had not even discussed it.
Mr. Barton's claim had a long history. For more than a decade, lawmakers and administration officials, both Republicans and Democrats, have promised there would be no cost to taxpayers for a program allowing companies to avoid paying the government royalties on oil and gas produced in publicly owned waters in the Gulf. 
 But last month, the Bush administration confirmed that it expected the government to waive about $7 billion in royalties over the next five years, even though the industry incentive was expressly conceived of for times when energy prices were low. And that number could quadruple to more than $28 billion if a lawsuit filed last week challenging one of the program's remaining restrictions proves successful. 
 ''The big lie about this whole program is that it doesn't cost anything,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who tried to block its expansion last July. ''Taxpayers are being asked to provide huge subsidies to oil companies to produce oil -- it's like subsidizing a fish to swim.''
 How did a supposedly cost-free incentive become a multibillion-dollar break to an industry making record profits? 
 The answer is a familiar Washington story of special-interest politics at work: the people who pay the closest attention and make the fewest mistakes are those with the most profit at stake.
 It is an account of legislators who passed a law riddled with ambiguities; of crucial errors by midlevel bureaucrats under President Bill Clinton; of $2 billion in inducements from the Bush administration, which was intent on promoting energy production; and of Republican lawmakers who wanted to do even more. At each turn, through shrewd lobbying and litigation, oil and gas companies ended up with bigger incentives than before.
 Until last month, hardy anyone noticed -- or even knew -- the real costs. They were obscured in part by the long gap between the time incentives are offered and when new offshore wells start producing. But lawmakers shrouded the costs with rosy projections. And administration officials consistently declined to tally up the money they were forfeiting. 
 Most industry executives say that the royalty relief spurred drilling and exploration when prices were relatively low. But the industry is divided about whether it is appropriate to continue the incentives with prices at current levels. Michael Coney, a lawyer for Shell Oil, said, ''Under the current environment, we don't need royalty relief.'' 
 The program's original architect said he was surprised by what had happened. ''The one thing I can tell you is that this is not what we intended,'' said J. Bennett Johnston, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana who had pushed for the original incentives that Congress passed in 1995. 
 Mr. Johnston conceded that he was confused by his own law. ''I got out the language a few days ago,'' he said in a recent interview. ''I had it out just long enough to know that it's got a lot of very obscure language.''

A Subsidy of Disputed Need
 Things looked bleak for oil and gas companies in 1995, especially for those along the Gulf Coast.
 Energy prices had been so low for so long that investment had dried up. With crude oil selling for about $16 a barrel, scores of wildcatters and small exploration companies had gone out of business. Few companies had any stomach for drilling in water thousands of feet deep, and industry leaders like Exxon and Royal Dutch Shell were increasingly focused on opportunities abroad.
 ''At the time, the Gulf of Mexico was like the Dead Sea,'' recalled John Northington, then an Energy Department policy adviser and now an industry lobbyist. 
 Senator Johnston, convinced that the Gulf's vast reservoirs and Louisiana's oil-based economy were being neglected, had argued for years that Congress should offer incentives for deep-water drilling and exploration. 
 ''Failure to invest in the Gulf of Mexico is a lost opportunity for the U.S.,'' Mr. Johnston pleaded in a letter to other lawmakers. ''Those dollars will not move into other domestic development, they will move to Asia, South America, the Middle East or the former Soviet Union.'' 
 Working closely with industry executives, he wrote legislation that would allow a company drilling in deep water to escape the standard 12 percent royalty on up to 87.5 million barrels of oil or its equivalent in natural gas. The coastal waters are mostly owned by the federal government, which leases tens of millions of acres in exchange for upfront fees and a share of sales, or royalties.
 Mr. Johnston and other supporters argued that the incentives would actually generate money for the government by increasing production and prompting companies to bid higher prices for new leases.
 ''The provision will result in a minimum net benefit to the Treasury of $200 million by the year 2000,'' Mr. Johnston declared in November 1995, denouncing what he called ''outrageous allegations'' that the plan was a giveaway.
 He won support from oil-state Democrats, Republicans and the Clinton administration. Hazel O'Leary, the energy secretary at the time, said the assistance would reduce American dependence on foreign oil and ''enhance national security.''
 Representative Robert Livingston of Louisiana, then a rising Republican leader, declared that the inducements would ''create thousands of jobs'' and ''reduce the deficit.''
 Many budget experts agree that the rosy estimates were misleading. The reason, they say, is that it often takes seven years before a new offshore field begins producing. As a result, almost all the costs of royalty relief would occur outside of Congress's five-year budget timeframe. 
 Opponents protested that the cost estimates were wrong, that the incentives amounted to corporate welfare and that companies did not need government incentives to invest.
 ''They are going to the Gulf of Mexico because that's where the oil is,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, during a House debate. ''What we do here is not going to change that. We are just going to decide whether or not we are going to give away the taxpayers' dollars to a lot of oil companies that do not need it.''
 Industry executives and lobbyists fanned out across Capitol Hill to shore up support for the program, visiting 150 lawmakers in October 1995. The effort succeeded. A month later, Congress passed Mr. Johnston's bill. 

A Missing Escape Clause
 To hear lawmakers today, they never intended to waive royalties when energy prices were high. 
 The 1995 law, according to Republicans and Democrats alike, was supposed to include an escape clause: in any year when average spot prices for oil or gas climbed above certain threshold levels, companies would pay full royalties instead.
 ''Royalty relief is an effective tool for two things: keeping investment in America during times of super-low prices, and spurring American energy production when massive capital and technological risks would otherwise preclude it,'' said Representative Richard W. Pombo, Republican of California and chairman of the House Resources Committee. ''Absent those criteria, I do not believe any relief should be granted.''
 But in what administration officials said appeared to have been a mistake, Clinton administration managers omitted the crucial escape clause in all offshore leases signed in 1998 and 1999.
 At the time, with oil prices still below $20 a barrel, the mistake seemed harmless. But energy prices have been above the cutoff points since 2002, and Interior Department officials estimate that about one-sixth of production in the Gulf of Mexico is still exempt from royalties.
 Walter Cruickshank, a senior official in both the Clinton and Bush administrations, told lawmakers last month that officials writing the lease contracts thought the price thresholds were spelled out in the new regulations, which were completed in 1998. But officials writing the regulations left those details out, preferring to set the precise rules at each new lease sale.
 ''It seems to have been a massive screw-up,'' said Mr. Northington, who was then in the Energy Department. No one noticed the error for two years, and no one informed Congress about it until last month. 
 Five years later, the costs of that lapse were compounded. A group of oil companies, led by Shell, defeated the Bush administration in court. The decision more than doubled the amount of oil and gas that companies could produce without paying royalties.
 The case began as a relatively obscure dispute. Shell paid $3.8 million in 1997 for a Gulf lease and soon drilled a successful well. But the Interior Department denied the company royalty relief, saying that Shell had drilled into an older field already producing oil and gas. The decision hinged on undersea geography and the court's interpretation of language in the 1995 law.
 A typical field, or geological reservoir, often encompasses two or three separately leased tracts of ocean floor. Interior Department officials insisted that the maximum amount of royalty-free oil and gas was based on each field. Shell and its partners argued that limit applied only to each lease. 
 Perhaps shrewdly, the oil companies sued the Bush administration in Louisiana, where federal courts previously had sided with the industry in spats with the government.
 The fight was not even close. In January 2003, a federal district judge declared that the Interior Department's rules violated the 1995 law. If the department ''disagrees with Congress's policy choices,'' Judge James T. Trimble Jr. wrote, ''then such arguments are best addressed to Congress.'' 
 What might have been a $2 billion mistake in the Clinton administration suddenly ballooned into a $5 billion headache under Mr. Bush.
 But even as the Bush administration was losing in court, it was offering new incentives for the energy industry.
 Mr. Bush placed a top priority on expanding oil and gas production as soon as he took office in 2001. Vice President Dick Cheney's task force on energy, warning of a deepening shortfall in domestic energy production, urged the government to ''explore opportunities for royalty reduction'' and to open areas like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling.
 Gale A. Norton, who stepped down this month as interior secretary, moved quickly to speed up approvals of new drilling permits. Starting in 2001, she offered royalty incentives to shallow-water producers who drilled more than 15,000 feet below the sea bottom.
 In January 2004, Ms. Norton made the incentives far more generous by raising the threshold prices. Her decision meant that deep-gas drillers were able to escape royalties in 2005, when prices spiked to record levels, and would probably escape them this year as well. 
 She also offered to sweeten less-generous contracts the drillers had signed before the regulation was approved. 
 ''These incentives will help ensure we have a reliable supply of natural gas in the future,'' Ms. Norton proclaimed, predicting that American consumers would save ''an estimated $570 million a year'' in lower fuel prices. 
 Ms. Norton's decision was influenced by the industry. The Interior Department had originally proposed a cut-off price for royalty exemptions of $5 per million British thermal units, or B.T.U.'s, of gas. But the Independent Petroleum Association of America, which represents smaller producers, argued that the new incentive would have little value because natural gas prices were already above $5. Ms. Norton set the threshold at $9.34. 
 Based on administration assumptions about future production and prices, that change could cost the government about $1.9 billion in lost royalties.
 ''There is no cost rationale,'' said Shirley J. Neff, an economist at Columbia University and Senator Johnston's top legislative aide in drafting the 1995 royalty law. ''It is astounding to me that the administration would so blatantly cave in to the industry's demands.'' 

Incentives Keep Growing
 Last April, President Bush himself expressed skepticism about giving new incentives to oil and gas drillers. ''With oil at $50 a barrel,'' Mr. Bush remarked, ''I don't think energy companies need taxpayer-funded incentives to explore.''
 But on Aug. 8, Mr. Bush signed a sweeping energy bill that contained $2.6 billion in new tax breaks for oil and gas drillers and a modest expansion of the 10-year-old ''royalty relief'' program. For the most part, the law locked in incentives that the Interior Department was already offering for another five years. But it included some embellishments, like an extra break on royalties for companies drilling in the deepest waters.
 Lee Fuller, vice president of the Independent Petroleum Association of America, said smaller companies wanted to prevent future administrations from cutting back on incentives. ''Having a clear, stable royalty policy was of value to independent producers,'' he said.
 And energy companies, whose executives had long contributed campaign funds to Republican candidates, pushed to block any amendments aimed at diluting the benefits.
 The push to lock in the royalty inducements came primarily from House Republicans. The only real opposition came from a handful of House Democrats, in a showdown about 1 a.m. on July 25, according to a transcript of the session.
 ''It is indefensible to be keeping these companies on the government dole when oil and gas prices are so high,'' charged Representative Markey of Massachusetts, who proposed to strip the royalty provisions. ''We might as well be giving tax breaks to Donald Trump and Warren Buffett.'' 
 Mr. Barton, the Texas Republican, brushed aside the objections. He reassured lawmakers that the new provisions would not cost taxpayers anything.
 When Mr. Markey proposed a more modest change -- having Congress prohibit incentives if crude oil prices rose above $40 a barrel -- Republicans quickly voted him down again. 
 ''The only reason they waited until after midnight to bring up these issues is that they couldn't stand up in the light of day,'' Mr. Markey said in a recent interview. ''They all expected me to give up because it was so late and I didn't have the votes. But if nothing else, I wanted to get these things on the record.''

A Royalty-Free Future?
 It is still not clear how much impact the reduced royalties had in encouraging deep-water drilling. While activity in the Gulf has increased since 1995, prices for oil and gas have more than quadrupled over the same period, providing a powerful motivation, experts say. 
 ''It's hard to make a case for royalty relief, especially at these high prices,'' said Jack Overstreet, owner of an independent oil exploration company in Texas. ''But the oil industry is like the farm lobby and will have its hand out at every opportunity.''
 The size of the subsidies will soar far higher if oil companies win their newest court battle.
 In a lawsuit filed March 17, Kerr-McGee Exploration and Production argued that Congress never authorized the government to set price cut-offs for incentives on leases awarded from 1996 through 2000. If the company wins, the Interior Department recently estimated, about three-quarters of oil and gas produced in the Gulf of Mexico will be royalty-free for the next five years.
 Mr. Markey and other Democrats recently introduced legislation that would pressure companies to pay full royalties when energy prices are high, regardless of what their leases allow. 
 But Republican lawmakers and the Bush administration have signaled their opposition.
 ''These are binding contracts that the government signed with companies,'' Ms. Norton recently remarked. ''I don't think we can change them just because we don't like them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Kearns, left, and Jeff Krauss of the National Ocean Industries Association examined a map of drilling sites in the Gulf of Mexico that were offered this month at a government lease sale in New Orleans. (Photo by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart: ''Giving Away $7 Billion In Royalties''NOVEMBER 1995Deep Water Royalty Relief Act is passed, allowing companies to avoid paying some royalties on oil and gas produced in deep water in the Gulf of Mexico. Bill has bipartisan support.1998-99Interior Department makes big mistake on leases awarded in these two years. The department omits price thresholds that would cut royalty relief if oil and gas prices rose above about $34 a barrel for crude and about $4 per thousand cubic feet of natural gas.2000Interior realizes the error and quietly adds price thresholds into new leases -- but the old leases remain valid.2001A vice presidential task force issues National Energy Policy recommendations, urging the government to open up more federal lands and waters to oil and gas development to ''explore opportunities for royalty reductions.''MARCH 2003U.S. District Court in Louisiana knocks down a restriction on the the volume of royalty-free oil and gas a company can produce. This effectively doubles or triples the incentives.JAN. 23, 2004Interior expands royalty incentives for deep gas producers, letting them avoid royalties if price is below $9.34 per million B.T.U.'s -- higher than average price to date. Decision could cost $1.9 billion in royalties over next five years.APRIL 2005President Bush says no need for more incentives. ''With oil at $50 a barrel,'' he says, ''I don't think energy companies need taxpayerfunded incentives to explore.''JULY 25, 2005House and Senate conferees on energy bill vote to extend and slightly enhance royalty incentives for oil and gas. Bush signs energy bill Aug. 8.FEBRUARY 2006Interior Department budget shows that royalty breaks could cost government more than $7 billion over next five years, even though it expects oil prices to remain above $50 a barrel.MARCH 17, 2006Kerr-McGee, a large Gulf of Mexico producer, sues the federal government in a test case to receive all deepwater royalty incentives, regardless of how high prices are, for all leases signed from 1996 through 2000. If suit is successful, government projections indicate taxpayers could lose more than $28 billion over five years.(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); POLITICS (77%); LITIGATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Royalties; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEAN INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Edmund L Andrews; Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



584 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

17 Dead at Iraqi Mosque; Circumstances in Dispute
American and Iraqi government forces clashed with Shiite militiamen in Baghdad in the most serious confrontation in months. Iraqi security officials said at least 17 Iraqis were killed in or around a mosque, including the imam and unarmed worshippers. American forces confirmed the conflict but denied entering the mosque. A1

Iraq Invasion Memo Disclosed 

A five-page memorandum about a meeting between President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, before the United States invasion of Iraq, has been made available in its entirety. The previously unreported material offers an unfiltered view of two leaders who are on the brink of war, yet supremely confident. A1

Ukraine Governing Party Losing
Ukrainians voted for a new parliament in what President Viktor A. Yushchenko called ''the first fair, democratic elections in Ukraine,'' and his party appeared to be routed. A1

Afghan Religion and Law
The case of an Afghan man facing death for converting to Christianity was returned to prosecutors due to ''investigative gaps,'' according to court officials. The case illustrates the Afghan government's attempt to balance democracy with Islamic law, both of which are enshrined in the country's Constitution. A11

Opposition Leader in Minsk Jail
Aleksandr V. Kazulin, a detained opposition leader in Belarus who had challenged the president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, in an election, faces criminal charges of hooliganism. He was held at a detention center outside of Minsk, and was denied prison visits by a doctor and a lawyer, his wife said. A6

Concerns on Ex-Chief of Liberia
Pressure mounted in Nigeria to arrest Charles Taylor, the former president of Liberia who is under indictment for war crimes during the decade long civil war. Local news reports of lax security at the compound he lives in are giving rise to fears he may try to flee. A8

Rice to Ask if Russia Aided Iraq
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that the United States would seek clarification from Moscow of an American military report that Russia had helped to pass information on to Iraq before the 2003 invasion. A11

OBITUARIES B7

Richard Fleischer
The film director who helmed ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,'' ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' and ''Fantastic Voyage,'' he was 89. B7

NATIONAL A12-17

Immigrant Rallies Staged As Senate Debates Policy
Rallies around the country have attracted numbers that astonished even their organizers. The demonstrations embody a surging constituency demanding that illegal immigrants be given a path to citizenship rather than be punished with prison terms. The Senate Judiciary Committee will meet today to address the issue. A14

Public Opinion Shifts on War
President Bush is pressing ahead with an intensified effort to shore up support for the war, but an increasingly skeptical and pessimistic public is putting pressure on Congress about the wisdom behind it, testing the political support for the White House's determination to remain in Iraq. A12

Detainee Case Poses Questions
The Supreme Court's announcement that it would rule on the validity of the military commission by which the Bush administration wants to try Osama bin Laden's former driver, on charges of conspiracy to commit terrorism, appeared to mark a resumption of a struggle for supremacy between the court and the president. A12

Police Identify Seattle Gunman
A man suspected of killing six young people at a house party before he turned the gun on himself was identified by the police as Aaron Kyle Huff. He committed suicide on Saturday morning after opening fire on young partygoers who had invited him to a private gathering after a ''zombie rave,'' the police said. A17

Changes in the East Wing
First Lady Laura Bush has replaced her entire high command after five years in charge of the East Wing. Ms. Bush is now on her second chief of staff, her second projects and policy director, and her third press secretary. A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Cloning Healthy Fats Into Pork
A group of university researchers said that they had created what sounds like a nutritional holy grail: cloned pigs that make their own omega-3 fatty acids, potentially leading to bacon and pork chops that might help your heart. A1

ARTS E1-8

Leprosy's History in Hawaii
A new book about a dark chapter in Hawaiian history, when thousands of people with leprosy were forced to live on a remote outcropping of the island of Molokai, has upset some former patients of the settlement and raised delicate questions about how much deference should be paid to them. E1

Answering Letters to Juliet
Every week, hundreds of letters pour into the office of the Club di Giulietta, in Verona, Italy. Every letter is answered by the club's group of volunteers, and now two American sisters have put some of the letters and a few of the responses into a book, ''Letters to Juliet.'' E1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Impact of a Mob Memoir On Trial of Ex-Detectives
A memoir titled ''Mafia Cop'' is at the center of the trial of Louis J. Eppolito and Stephen Caracappa, two former New York detectives accused of committing drug crimes and taking part in murders for the mob. A1

Clinton Keeps Focus on '06
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton appears not to have lost sight of her race for re-election, despite widespread speculation about her potential to capture the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008. B1

Holes in Security Net
In the years since the 9/11 attacks, concern about a potential terrorist strike at one of the nation's chemical plants has led to tighter safeguards. But even if the plants themselves are secure, the public could be left vulnerable by the railways running in and out of many of them. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Heading for the Final Four
Eleventh-seeded George Mason defeated top-seeded Connecticut, 86-84, in overtime to win the Washington, D.C. regional and advance to the Final Four of the Men's N.C.A.A. Tournament. George Mason is the first team seeded in double digits to make it to the Final Four since Louisiana State in 1986. D1

The University of Florida defeated top-seeded Villanova, 75-62, in the Minneapolis regional final. Without a No. 1 seed still playing, Florida might be the favorite to win the tournament. D1

Rookie Driver Dies in Crash
Paul Dana, a rookie driver in the Indy Racing League, died after he was involved in a two-car collision during a practice session five hours before the season-opening race at Homestead-Miami Speedway in Florida. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Fed Is Set to Raise Rates
Today, Ben S. Bernanke will convene his first meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy makers, in a two-day session that is expected to end with another quarter-point rise in short-term interest rates, the 15th consecutive increase. C1

Delays at Microsoft
Microsoft's release of a new version of its desktop operating system, called Windows Vista, has repeatedly been delayed -- as the company finds itself hampered by its own sheer size. C1

Sizing Up Papers for Sale
With the McClatchy Company set to accept bids for the 12 Knight Ridder papers it is selling, some potential buyers are looking at regional markets where they already own newspapers to see if they can achieve economies of scale by acquiring more. C1

A Web Site's Video Allure
Heavy.com has become popular among young people -- and has attracted advertisers -- with its racy, humorous video programming. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Mr. Schumer goes to China; a civil debate; France's misguided protesters; Keystone Komputers.

Columns: Paul Krugman.

Autos D9
Bridge E4
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PRISONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); WAR CRIMES (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (93%); BELARUS (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LIBERIA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



585 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
THOMPSON, JANA D.

 BODY:
 THOMPSON--Jana D. Jana D'Aun Thompson, president of Laudus Funds in San Francisco, died March 17 in her home surrounded by family and friends following an eight month battle with pancreatic cancer. She had turned 47 ten days earlier. Ms. 
Thompson, a native of Arlington, Texas, headed management of Charles Schwab's Laudus Funds. She joined Schwab in August 2000. Previously, Ms. Thompson cofounded the High Yield Group at Fleet Securities in New York City after serving as head of High Yield Sales for Citicorp. She spent most of her career on Wall Street with Lehman Brothers where she specialized in High Yield, Distressed and Emerging investment markets. Ms. Thompson graduated from Lamar High School in Arlington, Texas. She earned a B.A. in International Economics from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., and an MBA in Finance from Columbia University in New York City. Ms. Thompson had a passionate interest in art, music, dance, sports and the community. She had served on the Board of Directors of ODC/Dance (Oberlin Dance Company) in San Francisco, and generously supported Doctors Without Borders, Emily's List, Planned Parenthood, the Women's Initiative for Self Employment (WISE), the Brent Woodall Foundation for Exceptional Children, Stern Grove Festival, San Francisco Ballet, Friends of Mountain Lake Park and a variety of emerging artists. A cycling enthusiast, she completed the 100-mile America's Most Beautiful Ride in 2004. She is survived by her partner Michael D. Browne and his children, Michael and Catherine, of New York City; her mother Janice D. Thompson, her father and stepmother Dr. Gerald G. Thompson and Linda Thompson, her brother Ken Thompson, his wife JoLee and their children Tori, Trace, Tanner and Tucker, her grandmother Dorothy Thompson, all of Arlington, Texas; her brother Kevin Thompson, his wife Patti and their children Meghan and Hank of Dallas, Texas; her sister Kelly Weeks, her husband David and their children Dylan and Zachary of Huntsville, Texas, and her extended family of treasured friends. The Jana D. Thompson Fund, an annual award to assist worthy students to study abroad, has been established at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be made to the Fund. Checks should be made payable to the School of Foreign Service (memo line: Jana D. Thompson Fund) and mailed to: School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 301 ICC, Washington, DC 20057. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CANCER (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (74%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (74%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); MUSIC (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (55%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



586 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Get Ready For No. 15 In a Series At the Fed 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
When Alan Greenspan became chairman of the Federal Reserve more than 18 years ago, his first action upon taking the black leather seat at the head of the Fed's huge oak conference table was to raise interest rates. Now it is Ben S. Bernanke's turn.
 Today, Mr. Bernanke will convene his first meeting of the Fed's policy makers, joining the other Fed governors and the presidents of the Fed's regional banks in a two-day session that is all but certain to end tomorrow afternoon with another quarter-point rise in short-term interest rates, the 15th consecutive increase.
That will bring the critical rate the Fed controls to 4.75 percent, up from 1 percent in June 2004, when Mr. Greenspan started the process of steadily increasing borrowing costs. Many analysts expect Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues to raise the rate yet again in May, by another quarter of a point.
 ''They all really want to project a sense of continuity with Greenspan,'' said Tom Schlesinger, executive director of the Financial Markets Center, ''and they are going to err on the side of cautiousness if that is what it takes to do this.'' 
 That caution is now ingrained. Starting with Paul A. Volcker in the late 1970's, new Fed chairmen have come into office determined to establish their credibility as inflation fighters. But today, there are few signs that Fed officials are acutely worried about an outburst of inflation.
 High oil costs have not translated into upward pressure on wages and prices. A weakening housing market provides another measure of restraint. But the biggest change since 1987, when Mr. Greenspan took over as chairman, is the increasingly global supply of labor and merchandise. This supply helps to alleviate shortages in this country, and in doing so dampens inflation.
 Fed officials recognize the shift. ''The growing capacity of foreign countries to supply goods and services to the U.S. market has impacted the structure of wages and the bargaining power of workers,'' Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a recent speech.
 But so far Ms. Yellen, like most others at the central bank, remains reluctant to translate this recognition into a new policy approach. ''There are good reasons to doubt that such factors are sufficient to sever the usual link between labor market slack and wage and price pressures,'' she added.
 Indeed, some Wall Street forecasters are already warning that the present 4.8 percent unemployment rate effectively constitutes full employment, giving workers here -- despite all the low-wage foreigners who are eagerly producing goods for Americans -- leverage to bargain for higher wages. According to this view, companies will raise prices to cover the higher labor cost and a wage-price spiral may ensue. 
 ''Inflation pressures are slowly building,'' Jason Rotenberg, a senior investment associate at Bridgewater Associates, said in a newsletter last week, citing as one reason labor markets that ''go from being roughly balanced to tight.''
 Although Mr. Bernanke is doubtful that labor markets are all that tight, he certainly speaks out on the importance of keeping inflationary expectations firmly in check, just as Mr. Greenspan did.
 This is the view that the expectation of rising inflation must be squelched, mainly by raising interest rates to dampen the economy and prevent excessive consumer demand even before inflation begins to accelerate. If the Fed fails to act in a decisive fashion, the argument goes, consumers might rush out to buy in anticipation of higher prices, and these buying sprees would then become an inflationary force.
 Suppressing inflationary expectations was much in vogue in the 1980's, and the practice sometimes resulted in recession. But buying sprees could result in spot shortages of American workers and in the capacity of factories within the United States to keep up with demand. 
 In the last couple of years, however, the Fed's policy makers have begun to debate how much consideration they should give, in setting interest rates, to international forces that might push in the other direction. Leading the charge for a more global perspective in the Fed's deliberations is Richard W. Fischer, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
 Mr. Fischer openly contests the view that a low unemployment rate in America risks, by itself, pushing up wages and then prices -- not when there are so many people in low-wage countries to help supply the United States with inexpensive goods and services. But he acknowledges that his position is still controversial. 
 ''I think it is inevitable that my colleagues will incorporate global factors in monetary deliberations,'' Mr. Fischer said in an interview last week. ''But serious economists like to have data to back-test and verify, and the data is so bloody new.'' 
 Ms. Yellen, in her speech, listed several reasons why she and her colleagues remained reluctant to throw out the old linkage, which had inflationary pressures developing when domestic demand rose. Sure, there are plenty of imports, she said, but they contribute to a growing current-account deficit that will eventually push down the value of the dollar. When that happens, the dollar prices of imports can rise, contributing, in sum, to inflation. 
 Then, too, foreign and domestic labor are not always interchangeable. All sorts of labor-intensive services, from haircuts to heart transplants, must be performed by workers located within the United States. ''Indeed, only 10 percent of American workers are in manufacturing, which is arguably the sector most exposed to foreign competition,'' Ms. Yellen said. 
 Still, since the late 1990's, a falling unemployment rate no longer seems to result in predictably higher wages and higher prices. Mr. Greenspan contended that a rising productivity rate was increasing labor's output. Shortages, as a result, were less likely to develop, he argued, and that took pressure off the Fed to raise rates and thus dampen inflation. 
 What Mr. Greenspan saw primarily as increased productivity was, in Mr. Fischer's view, at least in part, the rising supply of labor and services from other countries. ''We at the Dallas Fed,'' Mr. Fischer said, ''have been encouraged by the board of governors to continue our research into the impact of globalization on the American economy and on monetary policy.''
 For now, though, the Fed is likely to continue on its present course, lifting rates once or twice more and then pausing. 
 Even minimizing the importance of global supply, Mr. Bernanke has said he does not expect inflation to accelerate. It is moderate now, he told Congress last month, and is likely to remain so through 2007, even falling a little below this year's 2 percent average when volatile food and energy prices are stripped out of personal consumption expenditures, the inflation measure the policy makers watch most closely.
 ''I am comfortable,'' the new chairman testified, ''with these projections.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the first meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers with Ben S. Bernanke as chairman misspelled the surname of the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who has argued that the Fed needs to take a more global perspective in its deliberations. He is Richard W. Fisher, not Fischer.
An article in Business Day yesterday about the first meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers with Ben S. Bernanke as chairman misspelled the surname of the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who has argued that the Fed needs to take a more global perspective in its deliberations. He is Richard W. Fisher, not Fischer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, Fed chairman (Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (75%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Labor; International Trade and World Market; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) Alan Greenspan; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



587 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Players Big and Small Are Sifting Through Pieces of Knight Ridder

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
With the McClatchy Company set to accept bids, starting as early as tomorrow, for the 12 Knight Ridder papers it is selling, some of the potential buyers are looking at the country as if it were a giant chessboard.
 The goal is not to topple a king but to become one -- a king of each regional market where potential buyers already own newspapers and can achieve economies of scale by buying pieces of Knight Ridder.
''It's a delicate game of strategy right now,'' said Thomas Russo, a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner, a capital management firm in Lancaster, Pa. 
 The sales are likely to lead to a further consolidation of the newspaper industry around the country. During the last decade or so, newspapers have been ''clustering,'' that is, buying papers near one another, allowing them to save money by combining their advertising sales and printing operations and, in some cases, their news divisions. 
 Analysts said that clustering was a major motivation for many of the newspaper companies that are now interested in pieces of Knight Ridder. To achieve their ends, these companies could go into partnerships or even swap other papers.
 According to analysts, the newspaper companies that are potential buyers include the following:
 The MediaNews Group, Dean Singleton's company, which already owns nearly two dozen papers in California and will almost certainly be interested in at least 3 of the 12 Knight Ridder papers: The San Jose Mercury News, The Contra Costa Times and The Herald of Monterey County.
 Gannett, the nation's biggest newspaper publisher with operations in 41 states, including Indiana and Ohio, which may want The News-Sentinel in Fort Wayne, Ind., and The Akron Beacon Journal.
 Lee Enterprises, which owns dailies in the Midwest and could be looking at The Pioneer Press in St. Paul as well as The Duluth News Tribune, The Aberdeen American News in South Dakota and The Grand Forks Herald in North Dakota.
 Forum Communications of Fargo, N.D., which may also be interested in the papers in Aberdeen, Fort Wayne and Duluth.
 A single company buyer is less obvious for the two Knight Ridder papers in Philadelphia, The Inquirer and The Daily News. Gannett owns The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and The Courier-Post in nearby Cherry Hill, N.J. At the same time, Mr. Singleton has a reputation for being attracted to bigger newspapers in difficult markets. 
 Finally, there is The Times Leader in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., which has direct competition. The paper reported yesterday that Times-Shamrock, which owns The Times Leader's competitor, The Citizens' Voice, would be a logical suitor but that if Times-Shamrock did buy the paper, it would probably have to close one because of antitrust concerns.
 One suitor -- Yucaipa Companies, a private equity firm working with the Newspaper Guild, which represents employees at many of the 12 papers -- is interested in buying all 12. Yucaipa, which says it will make a bid tomorrow, has been in a dispute with McClatchy over getting all the information that it says it needs to make an informed bid.
 Yucaipa is not the only bidder lacking financial information. McClatchy issued a statement yesterday saying that it had not provided such information to any of the ''dozens of parties'' who have contacted McClatchy since the company won the bidding for Knight Ridder and put 12 of its papers on the market.
 Local investors in several of the 12 cities have emerged as possible buyers for papers in their own markets. But McClatchy said that the only potential buyers to receive information so far were those that had signed nondisclosure forms leading up to the bidding for all of Knight Ridder, and that McClatchy had given them nothing further. This could complicate the process for some. 
 ''It takes the market some time to get to know each paper as an individual entity,'' said Susan Casey, an investment banker at Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, based in Los Angeles. 
 It also puts newspaper companies like MediaNews and Gannett at a distinct advantage, because they were the only ones big enough to pursue Knight Ridder when it was intact. On March 13, McClatchy agreed to buy Knight Ridder for about $4.5 billion in cash and stock.
 Analysts have estimated the total value of the 12 papers at more than $1.4 billion and said the publications could probably bring a higher price individually or in small bundles than as a whole. 
 Gary B. Pruitt, chairman and chief executive of McClatchy, said in an interview that he remained open to all bids, whether for a single paper or all 12. He said he expected the bidding to continue beyond tomorrow and that he would announce each deal as it was completed, with the goal of selling all the papers by the time he closes on Knight Ridder sometime this summer.
 ''As we strike the final definitive agreements,'' Mr. Pruitt said, ''we would prefer to announce them so that we can end the uncertainty for those employees and also let Wall Street know we're getting this done.'' 
 Mr. Pruitt himself is still selling his own deal to Wall Street. He plans to be in New York this week to talk to Standard & Poor's and Moody's, the ratings agencies, which are assessing McClatchy's creditworthiness after it took on additional debt to buy Knight Ridder, the nation's second-biggest newspaper company. Wall Street's reaction so far has been tepid, with McClatchy stock dipping nearly 10 percent since the deal was announced.
 Mr. Pruitt said that McClatchy was not spending any money on a new headquarters to accommodate its larger place in the media universe. McClatchy's corporate offices occupy a small area on the second floor of the low-rise brick home of The Sacramento Bee, located in a neighborhood of houses and small businesses. It is a far cry from the gleaming office tower that Knight Ridder began leasing in San Jose, Calif., a few years ago. 
 ''We'll add people to corporate, but tens of people, not hundreds,'' Mr. Pruitt said. ''We don't have a big corporate staff, and we don't feel we need a big fancy building. That's not McClatchy's style.''
 Analysts said that newspaper companies in particular were looking at how they could add Knight Ridder papers to their clusters without violating antitrust rules. 
 Craig A. Dubow, president and chief executive of Gannett, told analysts at a meeting in New York last week that Gannett, which owns television stations in some markets where Knight Ridder had newspapers, had been interested in Knight Ridder but did not bid for it partly because of antitrust and cross-ownership concerns.
 ''We had a number of markets that were in direct conflict,'' he said, according to a company Webcast of the meeting. 
 As for the coming round, he said, Gannett was looking for ''positive synergies.''
 A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said that because of its sheer size, the acquisition of Knight Ridder by McClatchy ''is something we would be interested in looking at.''
 But the department has not scrutinized a newspaper merger since 2000, in San Francisco. The absence of action raises questions about where clustering ends and monopolies begin.
 ''Since 2000, the antitrust division has taken a pass on legitimate newspaper consolidation and restructuring,'' said Stephen Calkins, who teaches law at Wayne State University and specializes in antitrust. ''In part this reflects the absence of proposed mega-mergers. But it also reflects the division's perception of competition in the Internet age, and the division's focus on price and output without regard to editorial diversity.''
 The department was silent, for example, on an unusual deal last year in Detroit: Gannett sold The Detroit News to Mr. Singleton and bought the larger Detroit Free Press from Knight Ridder. The deal allowed Knight Ridder to exit the troubled Detroit market and allowed Gannett and Mr. Singleton to enter into a profit-sharing relationship, their third. 
 The deal gave Gannett a 95 percent controlling interest in joint operations in Detroit, and just the year before the company bought papers in the Detroit suburbs. 
 ''Is Justice interested in watching?'' asked Kurt Luedtke, the former editor of The Detroit Free Press. ''If it is, why did it do nothing in Detroit? And if it isn't, do all the players know this?''
 As of last year, only 45 cities in the United States had more than one daily newspaper, according to The Editor & Publisher International Yearbook. These include 12 with joint operating agreements aimed at allowing both papers to survive while avoiding antitrust challenges.
 ''The antitrust people never seemed to catch on that suburban monopolies act in the way that urban monopolies do,'' said John McManus, director of GradetheNews.org, at the School of Journalism and Mass Communications at San Jose State University.
 He said that if Mr. Singleton bought The San Jose Mercury, for example, it would be comparable to one person's owning all the grocery stores around San Francisco, ''and there would be no reason for them to compete on either price or quality.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the McClatchy Company's offer of 12 Knight Ridder newspapers for sale misidentified the publication that said the Times-Shamrock Company was a logical buyer for The Times Leader, a Knight Ridder paper in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. It was The Citizens' Voice of Wilkes-Barre, not The Times Leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Pruitt of McClatchy, center, has 12 papers to sell. Craig Dubow, left, of Gannett and Dean Singleton of MediaNews are pondering some. (pg. C1)
The headquarters of Knight Ridder, once located in Miami, are now in a leased office tower in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Jeff Chiu/Associated Press)
 Despite the McClatchy expansion, the company does not envision moving its headquarters from The Sacramento Bee's building. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Advertising and Marketing; Newspapers

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (93%); YUCAIPA COS LLC (82%); DULUTH NEWS-TRIBUNE (53%); LEE ENTERPRISES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Mcclatchy Co; Knight Ridder; Medianews Group; Gannett Co; Lee Enterprises; Forum Corporation

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (93%); LEE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (58%); CRAIG A DUBOW (50%) Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (71%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (68%); FARGO, ND, USA (67%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (66%); AKRON, OH, USA (53%); DULUTH, MN, USA (53%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



588 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Book on a Dark Chapter of Hawaiian History Draws Fire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

DATELINE: HONOLULU, March 23 

 BODY:
A new book about a dark chapter in Hawaiian history, when thousands of people with leprosy were forced to live on a remote outcropping of the island of Molokai, has upset some former patients of the settlement and raised delicate questions about how much deference should be paid to them.
 ''The Colony: The Harrowing True Story of the Exiles of Molokai,'' by John Tayman, has garnered critical praise. But complaints by former patients and people close to them about how the book treats their stories, as well as claims of inaccuracies and sensationalism, has led to a loose campaign to discredit the book by the former patients, some Hawaii historians and the state's lawmakers and governor.
 ''The tacit understanding we have here in Hawaii is the former patients of Kalaupapa'' -- the name for the settlement -- ''are entitled to a higher degree of respect and privacy and deference than the rest of us,'' said Representative Ed Case, Democrat of Hawaii, who criticized the book's narrative style and what he called an ''abbreviated, subjective treatment.'' 
 Mr. Tayman, 44, of New York City, spent more than three years researching and writing ''The Colony,'' his first book. He said he was surprised, and saddened, to see the support of the very people the book seeks to elevate disappear, but that the readers who experience the human triumphs within the settlement far outnumber the detractors. 
 ''I never saw it as a story that belonged to a specific culture, any more than I saw it as a Hawaiian story,'' Mr. Tayman said in an interview. ''I just sort of saw it as an American story more than anything else, or a human story. I never really encountered that -- 'What's a mainlander doing here, telling this story?' -- until the book was published.''
 The detractors have included three of the four former patients profiled in the book, including Olivia Breitha, 89, an author who still lives on the island, and who stopped cooperating with Mr. Tayman before the book was published. 
 ''My opinion of the book?'' Mrs. Breitha said in a telephone interview. ''It's unprintable. It's disgusting to me.'' 
 On the mainland, Mr. Tayman is receiving enviable reviews, with many critics praising the very sensitivity his subjects say the book lacks. In a review in The New York Times Book Review on Jan. 22, Mary Roach wrote: ''Tayman's narrative pulls the reader beyond the superficial, medical horrors of leprosy to the more devastating human horrors that lie beneath. In doing so, he has brought to light the profound dignity of his subjects.'' 
 She continued: ''Tayman's noble account makes you want to stand and applaud. It makes you want to walk up to these people and shake their hands.''
 The opponents' complaints begin with the book's cover. The image of rough seas and a steep, imposing cliff beneath angry skies, is not of Hawaii at all, but rather depicts a section of the Amalfi Coast in Italy, according to the Web site of Corbis, the company credited, along with the photographer Todd Gipstein, on the jacket. 
 ''That flips people out who know anything about Kalaupapa,'' Representative Case said. 
 Katie Monaghan, a publicist for Scribner, the book's publisher, said that the cover ''was designed by Scribner with the author's input, and both Scribner and John Tayman believe the cover design works well for the book.'' The director of publicity, Suzanne L. Balaban, declined to discuss the cover further. 
 Mr. Tayman said the art decisions were not his. ''There were various covers that were under consideration,'' he said. ''Some of them were illustrations and paintings, some were photographs. This is a representative cliff. I think it's an arresting and beautiful image.''
 Anwei Law, 53, is a coordinator for IDEA (Integration, Dignity and Economic Advancement), an international advocacy organization for people who have had leprosy, or Hansen's disease, as it is also known. ''He's missed the point,'' she said. ''The cliffs of Molokai are very important to the people there. When things were bad, they would look at those cliffs and get strength from them. When you've changed that, you've missed something very significant. It's like, 'Oh, well, any cliffs will work.' ''
 Mr. Tayman's opponents also take issue with the title, which they say reinforces stereotypes. '' 'The Colony' is bull,'' Mrs. Breitha said. ''It never was called the colony. It's always been called 'hospital' and 'settlement.' ''
 Mr. Tayman said that was simply not true, that it had long been referred to as a colony. ''The book always had as its working title, 'The Colony,' and the people I was dealing with on the book knew that,'' he said. In his notes section, Mr. Tayman recounts the split over those and other ''editorial decisions connected with the book,'' and the withdrawal of Mrs. Breitha and another former patient, Makia Malo, from further participation.
 Others say the book leaves too much out. ''A story as deep and complex and tragic and difficult as Kalaupapa is very hard to tell in a historical narrative at 300 pages,'' Representative Case said. ''I would say even impossible to tell.'' 
 Mr. Malo, 71, lost his vision and sensitivity of his hands and feet to leprosy. He is a professional storyteller who visits classrooms and attends national performances, discussing his life openly. He dropped that baggage ''about us having the disease a long time ago,'' the large, jovial man said on Wednesday behind dark glasses, in an interview in a car on the way home from the airport after an event in Phoenix. ''I shucked that burden of them knowing where I came from.''
 In the interview, Mr. Malo spoke about his experiences at the settlement, but not about Mr. Tayman or ''The Colony.'' Mr. Malo originally was interviewed at length by Mr. Tayman, but was so unhappy with the end result that he has refused to speak of the book or its author, and his physician has asked that it not be mentioned around him because of the stress, said his wife, Ann Malo. 
 ''He said, 'I'm so sad for John,' '' she said, recalling Mr. Malo's reaction to the book, referring to the choices Mr. Tayman had made in writing ''The Colony.'' Mrs. Malo said a scene in the book in which the young Makia witnesses the attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, was amplified in writing, with warplanes howling over his home neighborhood on the neighboring island of Oahu where there were none on the actual day. 
 ''There were no planes, none,'' she said. ''That's rewriting history.''
 Mr. Tayman said he had not been told of any errors since publication of ''The Colony'' in January. ''If a legitimate error exists in the book, of course it will be corrected,'' he said in an e-mail message. 
 Mrs. Law is working on her own book, which she described as an oral history of Kalaupapa. She has a running list of what she calls misspellings and wrong dates -- Mr. Tayman wrote in the book's notes section that some names and dates vary in historical documents -- and said the book should have been more sensitive to its subjects. 
 ''They let their opinions be known before publication of the book,'' Mrs. Law said. ''As soon as they heard the title, they wanted out. If people tell you this is going to be a problem, do you listen? There has been a certain arrogance all along with this book.''
 Mrs. Law is among those who say that the word leper is as offensive as a racial slur, and should almost never be used, not even in direct quotes, a stance Mr. Tayman has likened to revisionist history. He explains in his book that he uses the word in the context of the time he is writing about. 
 Mrs. Law and others have said the 80 pages of notes on sources are insufficient, and that more detailed footnotes would have helped identify Mr. Tayman's sources for some of his narrative recreations of past events. Mr. Tayman, in the book, invites readers to e-mail him with questions about sources. 
 Representative Neil Abercrombie, a Democrat from Hawaii, last year, like others in the Hawaiian congressional and Senate delegation, wrote to the publisher asking that complaints from his constituents be heard. 
 ''They are very, very sensitive to how they are portrayed,'' he said. ''They feel a very strong and deep and abiding responsibility to all those who came before them, to make sure that whatever they say or do or however they appear, they represent completely the life of someone who has contracted leprosy. They are almost tribal.''
 The last living patients are household names in Hawaii, and their wishes are not, as a rule, ignored. For evidence of this, one need only try to purchase ''The Colony'' in the bookstore at the settlement site itself, on Molokai, run by the National Park Service. It is not for sale. 
 ''We service the patients in Kalaupapa, and they're not happy with the book,'' said Edean Saito, the business manager for the stores run by the Arizona Memorial Museum Association at Pearl Harbor, including the Kalaupapa store. ''So out of courtesy to them, I don't want to upset them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Tayman, author of a book about the leprosy sufferers of Molokai. (Photo by Andrew French)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEPROSY (91%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%) Leprosy (Hansen's Disease); Books and Literature; Quarantine; Leprosy (Hansen's Disease)

PERSON: Michael Wilson; John Tayman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Molokai (Hawaii); Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



589 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: J. Glenn Beall Jr., 78, Former Senator and Insurance Executive 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: FROSTBURG, Md., March 24 

 BODY:
Former Senator J. Glenn Beall Jr., a Maryland Republican who served 14 years in elected offices, died at his home here on Friday. He was 78. 
 The cause was abdominal cancer, his brother George Beall said. 
 Mr. Beall (pronounced Bell) was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates in 1962 and re-elected in 1966. During much of that time, he was the minority leader.
 In 1968, Mr. Beall was elected to the United States House of Representatives. Two years later, he was elected to the Senate and served one term before losing to Paul S. Sarbanes, a Democrat who still holds the office.
 Mr. Sarbanes said that after defeating Mr. Beall for the Senate seat, they continued to work together on federally financed projects in Western Maryland, including the Canal Place tourism development in Cumberland.
 After an unsuccessful run for governor in 1978, Mr. Beall returned to his family's insurance business in Western Maryland. Under his leadership, the firm, Beall Garner Screen & Geare Inc., grew to one of the largest privately owned insurance agencies in the United States. Shortly after Mr. Beall's retirement from the firm, it was bought by Century Business Systems, known as CBIZ.
 In the Senate, Mr. Beall sponsored legislation that created budget offices in the Senate and the House. He was one of the first members of the Senate Budget Committee.
 He was a principal sponsor of the Physician Manpower Shortage Act, which put more doctors in rural areas; the C&O Canal Development Act, establishing the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park; the Historic Preservation Tax Act; and the National Elementary Reading Emphasis Act.
 Mr. Beall was also instrumental in keeping a cancer research center open at Fort Detrick, an Army installation in Frederick, Md.
 He was vice chairman of the 1981 White House Conference on Aging. He also served as chairman of the Maryland Chamber of Commerce, chairman of the executive council of the Maryland Hospital Association, trustee of the Maryland Historical Trust and a member of the Maryland Higher Education Commission.
 Mr. Beall, who was born in Cumberland, attended Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. A member of the class of 1945, Mr. Beall was allowed to graduate early so he could join the Navy in World War II. After the war, he earned a degree in economics from Yale.
 He was a son of James Glenn Beall, a congressman and senator from Maryland.
 Survivors include his wife, Nancy Lee Smith Beall; a daughter, Victoria Lee Muth of Bethesda, Md.; and two brothers, George Beall of Lutherville, Md., a former United States attorney who prosecuted Spiro T. Agnew in 1973; and Richard Olin Beall of Stevenson, Md.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator J. Glenn Beall Jr. in 1971. (Photo by Charles Tasnadi/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CANCER (89%); HISTORIC SITES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ONCOLOGY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ARMIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); BUDGETS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (68%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); MILITARY BASES (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); HOSPITALS (64%); RURAL HEALTH (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); TOURISM (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: CBIZ INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%)

TICKER: CBZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (55%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (90%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



590 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Students With Grit and Courage Are Awarded Times Scholarships 

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Some teenagers work to buy an iPod or a cellphone. Anna Umanskaya works to pay the rent.
 At 18, Ms. Umanskaya has been leading a kind of double life. She is a soft-spoken, energetic student at Franklin Delano Roosevelt High School in Brooklyn, a Russian-born girl with stellar grades, a love of acting and an acceptance letter from Brandeis University. Yet she is already more of an adult than many of her classmates: she is raising herself.
Ms. Umanskaya lives alone in an apartment in Brooklyn and spends much of her time after school at work, serving lattes at cafes. The bill from Con Edison on her kitchen table has her name on it. No one wakes her in the mornings to tell her to go to school. No one reminds her to turn in her English paper on the playwright Henrik Ibsen. She does all of that on her own.
 Her grandmother brought her to New York from Moscow when she was 10, and she has moved from place to place ever since, living with her father in Montreal, at a group home on Staten Island, with a friend of her mother's in Brooklyn. A rocky family life eventually prompted her to live on her own. 
 She said she felt abandoned, but never hopeless, filling her high school days with honors classes, volunteer work with the elderly, leadership training in Manhattan, mock City Council debates, essay and poetry writing and small parts in plays.
 ''I had to have more,'' said Ms. Umanskaya, who plans to study international relations at Brandeis. ''To make my dreams come true, to get into Brandeis, to be where I want for a change.''
 She recently added another achievement to her three-page resume: winning a college scholarship from The New York Times.
 As part of the annual program, Ms. Umanskaya and 18 other high school seniors will each receive a four-year scholarship of up to $30,000, a six-week summer job with The New York Times Company and a laptop computer. The students are also paired with a mentor from The Times and are offered advice and assistance through their college years from Roger Lehecka, an educational consultant and a former dean of students at Columbia College, Columbia University's undergraduate liberal arts school.
 Nearly 1,400 students from 250 of the city's public, private and parochial high schools sent scholarship applications to the newspaper. A group of Times reporters, editors and managers picked 36 finalists, and a smaller committee selected the 19 winners.
 They are, like Ms. Umanskaya, a resilient lot, chosen as much for their accomplishments inside the classroom as for their grit and courage outside it. Some have managed in a few years to settle in a new country, learn a new language and master their studies, while their parents -- often just a single mother or father -- struggled with bills, unemployment, family conflicts or addiction. Several of the families make less than $20,000 a year.
 Another of the scholarship winners, Justin Jimenez, lived for about a year in a homeless shelter in the Bronx in 2001 after his mother lost her job. He recalled it as prisonlike: they had a curfew at night and slept in a space that was more a cubicle than a room. He did his homework on the bed. ''I strove to do well academically to avoid the life that I lived,'' said Mr. Jimenez, 17, who now lives in an apartment in the Bronx with his mother, a clerical worker.
 Mr. Jimenez receives financial aid to attend Cardinal Hayes High School, where he leads community service projects as the spiky-haired, Thoreau-reading president of the school's National Honor Society chapter. He has tutored struggling freshmen, helped the school raise money for Hurricane Katrina victims and coordinated the cleanup of a Harlem playground, all while earning the second-highest grades in the senior class.
 Another winner, Sayeeda Ahsanuddin, 17, an India-born Muslim whose father runs a newsstand near Yankee Stadium, flourished in an unlikely place: an all-girls Catholic high school, Preston High School in the Bronx. There, she overcame her shyness and discovered her love of neuroscience, winning a regional Brain Bee competition last year. Her older sister, Sadia, who attends Harvard, was also a Times scholarship winner.
 Vanessa Salazar has one clear memory of her father, Carlos Julio Salazar. She had tumbled down the spiral staircase at home in Cali, Colombia, when she was 3 or 4 and hurt her head, and he swept her up in his arms. He was murdered soon after, in 1990. ''When I see kids playing with their fathers, I remember that my dad was like that once, that he played with me once,'' she said.
 Mr. Salazar loved politics, and his daughter, now 18 and a senior at the New York City Lab School for Collaborative Studies in Manhattan, has become fascinated with it as well. After moving to the United States with her mother and her younger sister, she learned English, developed an interest in Republican politics and, one April, sent an e-mail message to the New York Young Republican Club, asking about an internship. She has since volunteered at the 2004 Republican National Convention in Manhattan and with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election campaign.
 She dreams of becoming secretary of state, and of earning enough money so her mother no longer has to sell jewelry at a small shop in Queens, where she, her 8-year-old sister, Camila, and her mother share a two-bedroom apartment. Her mother sleeps on a bed near the kitchen so each of her daughters can have her own bedroom.
 ''There will be a day when my mom is not going to have to lift a finger,'' said Ms. Salazar, who is waiting to learn if she has been accepted to Harvard. She wears a Harvard sweatshirt in the meantime. Camila wears one, too.
 Soma Golden Behr, the scholarship program's director, said: ''There are so many wonderful kids in New York who have enormous adversity in their lives, and who somehow manage to survive in brilliant fashion. What we want to do is help give those remarkable young people a helping hand, a boost over the fence.''
 The New York Times College Scholarship Program started in 1999 with six students. Since then, it has helped pay for the college educations of 160 young New Yorkers.
 Past winners include Anahad O'Connor, 24, who scrapped his dreams of becoming a nuclear chemist but found something else to do after graduating from Yale. He is now a reporter for the Metro section of The Times. 
 Phillip Marcus, 18, a freshman at Wesleyan University, is already considering a career as a political strategist. Rebecca Deng, 24, is a media planner at an Asian American advertising agency called A Partnership. Last year, one previous winner gave back to the program, sending in two checks, each for $1,000.
 The scholarships are paid for by The New York Times Company Foundation, contributions from readers and an endowment started with a grant from the Starr Foundation, a charitable group created by Cornelius Vander Starr, founder of the American International Group, the insurance company. The program also recognizes the teachers who inspired the students. A group of teachers nominated by the scholarship winners will be given $3,000 each in June, awards provided by the Charles H. Revson Foundation.


GRAPHIC: Photos: No one wakes Anna Umanskaya, one of 19 Times Scholarship winners, to make sure she gets to high school on time. She lives on her own, working part-time to pay rent. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Times Scholarship winners, standing from left, Angelika Garcia, Daphne Lundi, Erika Sue, Hao Nguyen, Justin Jimenez, Nikola Kyuchukov, Irma Encarnacion, Sandra Appiah and Sandy Wong
 kneeling from left, Stefani Gjoni, Vanessa Salazar, Anna Umanskaya, Ashley Houston, Chan Juan Zhou, Daniela Cassorla, Sayeeda Ahsanuddin, Jane Yee and Suvam Paul. Not pictured is Keyla Espinal. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); THEATER (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); MANAGER TRAINING (70%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); AGING (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); POETRY (50%) Colleges and Universities; Scholarships and Fellowships

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%); ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Manny Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



591 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: Despite 9/11 Effect, Railyards Are Still Vulnerable

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Two signs just inside the entrance of the Oak Island rail depot here hint at dangers inside. ''Our Employees' Safety Is in Your Hands.'' one reads. ''You Are Accountable for Your Safety,'' reads another.
 Beyond those two placards, however, there are few visible signs that security is a high priority at the railyard, just three miles from downtown Newark and seven miles from Manhattan, where 90-ton tanker cars full of deadly chemical gases are routinely stored and shipped.
Gates to the depot are unlocked and unguarded, allowing unimpeded access to tracks where cars loaded with deadly chlorine, ammonia or oleum gases are stored.
 Along the track bed, many switching devices are unlocked, so unauthorized passers-by could redirect, and possibly derail, a train by simply pulling a lever. Security is so lax that a reporter and photographer recently spent 10 minutes driving along a rail bed beside cars holding toxic chemicals without being challenged, or even approached, by railroad employees. 
 In the years since the 9/11 attacks, public concern about a potential terrorist strike at one of the nation's chemical plants has caused federal and local officials to inch toward tighter safeguards at manufacturing and processing plants. On Tuesday, in a speech before the American Chemistry Council, Michael Chertoff, secretary of homeland security, said he would ask Congress to adopt a series of chemical plant security measures that have largely been endorsed by the industry. 
 Even if the chemical plants are secure, the public could be left vulnerable by the railways running in and out of many of them. The railways transport more than 1.7 million shipments of hazardous materials every year, including 100,000 tank cars filled with toxic gases like chlorine and anhydrous ammonia. 
 According to a recent study by the Navy, an accident or terrorist attack involving a single car of chlorine near a densely populated area could kill as many as 100,000 people. 
 In New Jersey, where so many chemical factories and refineries are crowded near major population centers, including a stretch near Newark Liberty International Airport that has been called ''the most dangerous two miles in America,'' the difficulty of managing that potentially deadly cargo is particularly complex. 
 Since 9/11, railroads have spent millions to install fences and security cameras and add additional officers around the state, but industry officials concede that their facilities are far too large to be completely sealed. Leaders of railroad workers' unions say it is not uncommon for tanker cars to be left unattended for days, and that security along the rails is frighteningly inadequate. And the sight of graffiti-covered tank cars filled with deadly gases is a reminder of the holes in the security system. 
 State and local officials say they are limited in what they can do to regulate the thousands of tank cars of deadly gases hauled around New Jersey each year. In other cities and states, proposals to reroute dangerous chemicals away from major population centers, most notably in Washington, D.C., have faced fierce opposition and legal challenges from both the railroads and local communities where the chemicals would be rerouted. The courts have also upheld the railroads' assertion that only the federal government can regulate rail traffic. 
 The Homeland Security Department has been reluctant to tighten regulations regarding the transportation of deadly chemicals by rail. In his speech last week, Mr. Chertoff made only passing reference to the risks of transporting the deadly cargo, and there is no indication that the department will require the kind of changes in equipment and procedures that security experts say will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack or catastrophic accident.
 ''Chemical transport is clearly the greatest vulnerability in the country today, and for some reason -- and I'm not sure what it is -- the federal government has not acted,'' said Richard A. Falkenrath, President Bush's former deputy homeland security adviser. ''There's no legislation necessary, the government already has the authority to require stronger containers, reroute shipments, and allow the kind of tracking that would allow local police agencies to know what they have to contend with in their communities. But to date it hasn't been done.''
 The risks involved in moving toxic rail cargo are a particular concern in New Jersey. Last fall, it became the first state to enact regulations intended to deter terror attacks on chemical plants by requiring companies to explore the feasibility of switching to safer technologies.
 Because many of the railyards in New Jersey are near petroleum storage tanks, natural-gas depots, or propane tanks, the effect of an attack on a rail car is likely to be magnified, said Paul DeMatteis, a security analyst at Global Security Risk Management, a corporate security company.
 When Gov. Jon S. Corzine was still in the United States Senate, he helped write federal legislation to tighten safety standards for both chemical plants and the railroads that supply them.
 Since being sworn in as governor two months ago, Mr. Corzine has earmarked $20 million to strengthen security around New Jersey's critical highways, rail links and bridges against possible terror attacks, and vowed to strengthen safeguards at railway chemical depots and plants around the state.
 The vulnerability of the rail lines has even undercut some of New Jersey officials' progress in making chemical plants safer. Last fall, owners of the Keene Chemical plant in Kearney agreed to reduce their stockpiles of chlorine by keeping no more than one tanker car of chlorine on the premises at a time. That policy means that tanker cars that were once stored in the moderately guarded chemical plant will spend more time waiting on less secure railway sidings. 
 ''It's this shell game,'' said Rick Engler, director of the New Jersey Work Environment Council, a union group that has lobbied for an assortment of restrictions on toxic chemicals. ''But shifting around the problem doesn't solve the problem.''
 Railroad officials say their self-imposed security measures have provided a web of security far more effective and sophisticated than that in virtually any other industry. Peggy Wilhide, spokeswoman for the Association of American Railroads, said that major rail carriers have spent more than $200 million since 9/11 on security measures, including fences and motion detectors, training, high-tech scanning devices, and tracking to monitor the shipment of some dangerous cargo. 
 After two accidental derailments in 2004 and 2005 caused toxic chemical releases that killed 12 people and injured hundreds, the railroads have also been considering a requirement that chemical companies replace their aging tankers with a newer, more highly reinforced generation of cars, Ms. Wilhide said. 
 Ms. Wilhide said that the industry opposed the plan to reroute shipments because it would actually increase the chance of an accident by forcing trains to haul the tankers full of toxic chemicals for longer distances, over older, less well-maintained rails. 
 Homeland Security Department officials have praised the rail carriers' cooperation, saying the railroads have moved responsibly to bolster the security of their facilities and to give law enforcement officials the information needed to develop a real-time tracking system for the most dangerous toxic rail cars. Homeland Security officials are also working with the railroads and the federal Department of Transportation to devise buffer zone protection plans to provide security near the most perilous rail sites.
 But the Homeland Security Department has not embraced calls to reroute trains carrying toxics or require that chemical companies update their fleet of tank cars. 
 Brian Doyle, a Homeland Security Department spokesman, said it wanted to complete a thorough assessment of the system before imposing any restrictions on the railways. ''It's one thing to just throw money at something and say it is fixed,'' he said. ''But you want to do it right.'' In his speech on Tuesday, Mr. Chertoff said the department supported the one policy that local communities, environmental advocates and the railroads all agree on -- that chemical plants and manufacturers should be urged to adopt processes that reduce, or eliminate, the need for toxic chemicals like chlorine and ammonia.
 But the department will not require any shift to safer technology, Mr. Chertoff said, and the chemical security bill he is now advocating is likely to prevent states from adopting any such requirement. 
 In Spotswood, N.J., about 17 miles northeast of Princeton, many residents were startled to learn in the months after 9/11 that their community was home to a plant that had enough chlorine on hand kill as many as 960,000 people if an accident or terrorist attack caused it to be released and carried on the wind. Local officials worked with the company, Schweitzer-Mauduit, which makes cigarette papers, to tighten its security procedures and adopt more sophisticated plans for evacuation, detection and cleanup.
 Bill Foust, a spokesman for the company, said switching to new technology that would eliminate the need for chlorine would be too expensive. 
 Barry H. Zagnit, mayor of Spotswood, said that despite the continuing risks, he could understand why company officials did not feel the investment was warranted. 
 ''You have a mill that's our largest employer, our largest taxpayer,'' he said. ''It's essential to the economy of the borough. ''We certainly would never want to see Schweitzer move the plant,'' he said. ''That would have a devastating effect on the borough, where people are already saddled with high property taxes.'' 
 A similar political struggle has been simmering in Paulsboro in South Jersey, where the Valero refinery has enough toxic hydrofluoric acid on hand at one time to create an airborne plume 19 miles long that could affect as many as three million people, according to a study by the Work Environmental Council based on federal Environmental Protection Agency data.
 The company has spent more than $5 million on bolstering security since 9/11, according to its spokeswoman, and has several systems designed to dissipate toxic gases in the event of a discharge. But Valero officials have resisted demands that they move to a process that would not use hydrofluoric acid, saying that it would be unworkable. 
 Steven M. Sweeney, the state senator whose district includes the Valero plant and at least three others that use large amounts of toxic gases, said that unless the state and federal governments intercede, little will be done to make communities like his safer. 
 ''In Fieldsboro, there are a few trains a week that roll through town, 125 cars long; at least 80 of them are the kind of toxic chemicals that could cause a catastrophe, just devastate a community,'' he said. ''Anyone who feels safe is living in a dream world.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Seven miles from Manhattan, the Oak Island rail depot in Newark has gates unlocked and unguarded and rail cars full of toxic gases sitting on sidings awaiting shipment. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CHLORINE (89%); BULK SHIPPING (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (75%); CHEMISTRY (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); VANDALISM (73%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); POPULATION DENSITY (71%); CITIES (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (60%) Railroads; Law and Legislation; Terrorism; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Security and Warning Systems; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Railroads; Factories and Industrial Plants; Chemicals

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (82%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (56%) David Kocieniewski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



592 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Remaking Diesel's Image a Lap at a Time

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAMERON

 BODY:
EUROPEAN roads are bustling with modern diesel cars that do not spew stinky clouds of black smoke from their tailpipes or announce their presence with a truck-stop clatter from under the hood. But with few exceptions, American drivers cannot buy these refined models. 
 Not that it matters. Buyers in the United States do not clamor for these thrifty cars anyway, largely because the diesels they have known were slow, quirky and not worth the fuss so long as gasoline was cheap. 
But diesels are fast becoming much cooler, and much faster. Traditional diesel vices have been tamed by new technologies, and the latest Eurodiesels offer performance similar to that of gasoline-powered sport sedans. Further evidence of the diesel's performance potential came earlier this month, when the diesel-powered Audi R10 won the 12 Hours of Sebring sports car race in Florida. 
 Cleaning up diesels to meet American emissions standards cannot be accomplished with the same solutions used for gasoline engines. A conventional gasoline engine compresses a mixture of fuel and air, then ignites it with an electric spark just before the piston reaches the top of its stroke. How much the mixture can be squeezed -- and therefore the fuel efficiency -- is limited by the fuel's ability to resist detonation, or pinging. 
 A diesel engine, though, compresses air only, and can thus compress it much more, raising its temperature to several hundred degrees. As the piston reaches the top of its travel, fuel is sprayed into the cylinder by a high-pressure injector; after a short delay, it ignites spontaneously. In both types of engines, the pressure created by the heat of the burning fuel drives the piston downward in the cylinder to produce rotary mechanical power at the crankshaft.
 The appeal of a diesel engine is its greater fuel economy, a gain of 25 to 40 percent. European regulators allow diesels to operate under less-strict emissions standards and the benefit of a lower fuel tax in return for their ability to reduce dependence on foreign oil. 
 More than half of European car buyers choose diesel engines. In the United States, diesel efficiency could also help to reduce fuel imports -- or allow drivers to continue their romance with large cars and S.U.V.'s despite high fuel prices.
 For a time in the 1980's diesels were attractive to buyers and regulators alike because they were so fuel-efficient and because their operation, with at least 20 percent more air than their fuel requires, suppressed hydrocarbon emissions. Then it was discovered that carbon particles in diesel exhaust carry chemicals linked to cancer. 
 Interest in diesels waned in the United States. But high fuel costs are again making diesels attractive, despite emissions rules that limit where they can be sold.
 Controls that are effective in cleaning up gasoline engines are not always applicable to diesels, whose combustion process is a balancing act between exhaust particulates -- black smoke -- and nitrogen oxides, a precursor of smog. If combustion is made hot enough to cut carbon particles, the heat will cause nitrogen oxides to form. If combustion temperature is lowered by diluting the intake air with some exhaust gas, production of nitrogen oxides drops but combustion becomes less complete -- and unburned carbon clumps will form more particulates.
 All pollution-control methods begin by minimizing emissions at their source through the use of the best technologies available. This includes fuel injection that sprays directly into a four-valve combustion chamber; use of a high-pressure common-rail injection system; and control of fuel flow by fast-acting electromagnetic or piezoelectric injector valves, capable of delivering multiple injections for each combustion cycle. Once these features are in place, remaining emissions must be dealt with using devices further down the exhaust stream, known as aftertreatment. 
 When it became clear that regulators in the United States intended to hold light diesels to the same standards as gasoline vehicles, it seemed like the end of the road for such engines in this country. Research has continued nevertheless, and Mercedes-Benz, a leader in Europe, has developed technology that it says will meet emissions regulations in all 50 states. 
 In existing systems, particulates are sifted from the exhaust stream by fine ceramic or porous metal filters, in some cases assisted by a catalyst that enables the particles to react with excess air and burn off.
 Nitrogen oxides are a more difficult problem. Two principal solutions exist. One, selective catalytic reduction, adds a supplementary source of nitrogen -- like urea or ammonia -- to the exhaust, then passes it over a catalyst. On the catalyst's active surface, nitrogen oxides in the exhaust are chemically encouraged to combine with nitrogen from the added urea to become nitrogen molecules. DaimlerChrysler plans to introduce such a system, which it calls Bluetec, on some vehicles in the United States in 2007, pending government approval. 
 Another system that reduces oxides makes use of a molecular trap, or adsorber, whose active ingredient is barium. Because this system requires an occasional shot of extra fuel to release the nitrogen oxides from the adsorber and chemically reduce them to harmless nitrogen, there is a small economy penalty. In addition, any sulfur in the fuel would be attracted to the adsorber, thus reducing its efficiency, so low-sulfur diesel fuels are being phased in this year in the United States. Such barium adsorbers store nitrogen oxides for several minutes, while only seconds of rich operation are required to purge the trap.
 Regulators seek emissions control systems that will last the vehicle's lifetime, but as the California electric-car initiative proved, the desire for a novel technology does not automatically summon it into being. Before a new breed of diesels become must-have engines for American drivers, engineers will have to develop emissions-control systems that are simpler, more reliable and less costly to produce. 
 When those problems are overcome, drivers can look forward to affordable low-emissions diesel vehicles that save fuel, deliver enjoyable performance and are indistinguishable from gasoline alternatives.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A diesel Audi R10 won this year's 12 Hours of Sebring.Chart: ''Turning Tailpipes Into No-Smoking Zones''Technologies for minimizing the exhaust emissions of gasoline engines are well developed, but the fuel and the ignition process of diesels present tougher challenges. Here are some methods that can be used to clean up diesels.TECHNOLOGY: Exhaust gas recirculationHOW IT WORKS: Adds exhaust gas to the cylinder, cooling combustion.CHALLENGE: Reduces nitrogen oxides, but particulates may increase.TECHNOLOGY: Oxidizing catalytic converterHOW IT WORKS: Chemical reaction converts pollutants to harmless gases.CHALLENGE: Proven technology, but ineffective on nitrogen oxides.TECHNOLOGY: Particulate filterHOW IT WORKS: Removes tiny carbon particles from exhaust.CHALLENGE: Must be heated for periodic self-cleaning cycle.TECHNOLOGY: Storage catalytic converterHOW IT WORKS: Pollutants are held in catalyst for periodic conversion.CHALLENGE: Requires low-sulfur diesel fuel
 reduced economy.TECHNOLOGY: Selective catalytic reductionHOW IT WORKS: Adds urea to convert nitrogen oxides to nitrogen molecules.CHALLENGE: Not yet approved by federal regulators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); SEDANS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); AUTO RACING (72%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (68%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); CARCINOGENS (60%) Automobiles; Fuel

PERSON: Kevin Cameron

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



593 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Consider 50-State Technology

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
DESPITE their fuel economy advantage and a core of loyal customers, no new diesel cars can be sold in states that have adopted California's stringent emissions rules. Whether a car could one day meet those standards may depend on the Environmental Protection Agency's approval for a method of treating exhaust gases that is now used at coal-fired generating plants. 
 The technology, selective catalytic reduction, cuts nitrogen oxides, which contribute to smog and acid rain. A chemical called urea is sprayed into the exhaust ahead of a catalyst, helping to convert nitrogen oxides to nitrogen molecules (a nonreactive gas that makes up about 80 percent of the earth's atmosphere) and water.
DaimlerChrysler uses the technology for trucks in Europe and would like to bring it here for the 2009 model year. But environmental regulators have not signed off on the concept: the agency requires pollution control equipment to function as a ''black box,'' with no maintenance or replenishment required for 120,000 miles, something the urea supply would need. 
 The DaimlerChrysler system, known as Bluetec, includes a tank that holds five to seven gallons of urea, with refills needed at intervals of 12,000 to 15,000 miles. ''Most of this will get done in oil changes,'' said Simon N. Godwin, the company's manager of regulatory affairs in Washington. 
 But Michael D. Jackson, senior director of Tiax, a consulting firm in Cupertino, Calif., said: ''The E.P.A. kind of looks squinty-eyed at this. This isn't like any normal piece of emissions control equipment that they put on a vehicle and forget about.'' 
 A more immediate challenge involves a simpler, 45-state form of Bluetec that Mercedes-Benz plans to introduce this fall in its E320 sedan. This system requires low-sulfur diesel fuel, which is not yet available, though federal regulations require that it be available at pumps by Oct. 15. The added cost is expected to be between a penny and 20 cents a gallon, with most estimates coming in at less than 7 cents. MATTHEW L. WALD

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); SMOG (77%); ACID RAIN (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); SEDANS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%) Automobiles; Fuel

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EARTH (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



594 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 97 words

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about statements from the United States and Europe that they would impose sanctions on Belarus over the crackdown on peaceful protesters after the country's presidential election referred incorrectly to a senior State Department official's estimate of the number of Belarus officials likely to face sanctions. The official said that ''fewer than a dozen'' officials were under sanctions now and that the number would probably increase ''by a factor of five or six.'' The official did not say the number was likely to be more than 50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%) Correction Stories; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: State Department

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%) Belarus

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006



595 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Focuses on '06, and That Could Be a Strategy for '08

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: MELVILLE, N.Y., March 23 

 BODY:
Taking the stage in a ballroom here to address a group of Realtors on Thursday, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton faced a familiar battery of comments and questions about her future.
 The host introduced her as a ''formidable presidential candidate.'' An audience member asked whether her husband, the former president, would wash the windows upon their return to the White House. ''He's never done them in any of our other houses,'' Mrs. Clinton said, sending a ripple of laughter through the crowd.
The notion that Mrs. Clinton might be courting once-wary voters in Suffolk County as part of her 2006 re-election race went unacknowledged. In fact, her Senate race has become something of an afterthought these days, with the Republican Party failing to mount much opposition and national attention focused on Mrs. Clinton's potential to capture the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008.
 But Mrs. Clinton herself appears not to have lost sight of 2006 -- judging not only by her painstaking attention to local details during her public appearances, but also by a schedule that frequently takes her to Republican areas across the state. 
 On the contrary, the senator appears to be treating her re-election bid as, among other things, a chance to prove her viability in tough parts of the New York, with Democrats and associates saying that she is aiming both to run up a big margin of victory statewide and to exceed expectations in Republican strongholds.
 Rather than traveling to New Hampshire or Iowa as have the other likely presidential contenders -- she has not visited New Hampshire in roughly a decade -- Mrs. Clinton spends significant amounts of time in areas of New York that have historically been enemy territory for a Democrat. Many of her recent stops -- in the Niagara Falls, Rochester and Syracuse regions -- are, on the surface, even more difficult political territory for her than Suffolk County, which she lost, 56 percent to 41 percent, in 2000.
 The strategy is strikingly similar to the one used by George W. Bush in 1998, when he ran up the score among Hispanics and moderates in Texas during his re-election campaign as governor, allowing him to promote the results as proof of his broad electoral appeal.
 Still, even if it proves successful, the approach has its limitations. New York Republicans, by and large, are less conservative than their counterparts in the South and West, especially on social issues like abortion.
 In some ways, her re-election race is all about risk. If she fails to run up a substantial margin of victory, her opponents in both parties are sure to cite her performance as evidence that she has too much ideological and personal baggage to win a nationwide race.
 But it is also true that Mrs. Clinton has strengthened her standing in parts of the state in which she was viewed skeptically at best in 2000, and that showing her own party that she can temper her image as a liberal can only help her in 2008.
 ''They're going to try to write a story about her success here coming out of 2006, to try and answer some of the questions people have raised'' about her ability to reach past liberal Democrats and build an appeal nationally, said David Axelrod, a Democratic media strategist. 
 Should Mrs. Clinton achieve her goals in the Senate race, Mr. Axelrod said, ''They're going to say she can do the same thing across the country, to their advantage.''
 Chris Lehane, a Democratic strategist who has worked on several presidential campaigns, said the ''starting gun'' on the presidential race would formally go off the Wednesday after this year's midterm elections. 
 ''The question is, where does Hillary Clinton want to be that Wednesday?'' Mr. Lehane said. ''The first thing she wants is to have an impressive victory, including in parts of the state, such as upstate, that will be indicative of her ability to attract moderate, independent and even Republican support.''
 And so it was that Mrs. Clinton found herself in a dual role at the Hilton hotel here on Thursday -- as both a celebrity, rushed by a throng of supporters seeking her autograph, and as a policy wonk with a firm command of issues important to the constituents she most wants to woo. 
 In her remarks to the Long Island Board of Realtors, she repeatedly addressed the kind of core suburban issues that typically matter to middle-class Republicans: issues like traffic congestion, economic tax incentives for suburban areas and maintaining the mortgage interest rate deduction.
 After an initial standing ovation subsided, Mrs. Clinton told the group that she had made it a priority to determine ''what we need to do to revitalize suburbia, because, after all, suburbia started on Long Island.''
 ''Some of our suburbs are old now themselves, and they need some help, so what we've tried to do is pay attention,'' she said, specifically citing Long Island, Westchester and suburbs upstate as the objects of her attention.
 Polling data strongly suggests that Mrs. Clinton has managed to pick up what would have once seemed like unlikely support across the state, and not simply because she is running without formidable opposition. In January, about 31 percent of registered Republicans said they approved of her, up from 18 percent in early 2001, according to polls conducted by Quinnipiac University. 
 Upstate, her approval rating jumped to 56 percent from 36 percent, while in the suburbs of New York City, it grew to 55 percent from 28 percent.
 There is even greater anecdotal evidence that the junior senator has overcome some initial concern among Republicans. Timothy J. Regan, the senior vice president for government affairs at Corning, the upstate glassware company, said that after some ''rough sledding'' right after the 2000 race -- when only a limited number of Republicans in his area voted for her -- she had become ''incredibly popular,'' by securing appropriations and other funding for the community and by responding to questions and complaints. 
 Her ability to help mostly Republican and upstate areas ''has surprised everybody,'' Mr. Regan said.
 Potentially, Mrs. Clinton could use solid gains in those communities to argue that she is viable in the outlying suburbs that have tipped the balance in the last two presidential elections -- and among white, middle-class voters in places like Ohio and West Virginia.
 Mrs. Clinton's advisers would not publicly discuss what, if anything, the 2006 election might mean for any national run. ''She is single-mindedly focused on this '06 race right now,'' said Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee and a close friend of the Clintons'.
 At the same time, Mrs. Clinton could get herself into trouble if she and her strategists publicly set a bar for how well she should perform in 2006. Indeed, aides to Mrs. Clinton are reluctant even to predict how much of the overall vote she will win. Last time, she reached 55 percent; most Democrats believe she will do much better this fall.
 ''No smart strategist is going to set a bar seven months before an election,'' said Paul Begala, a political adviser to former President Clinton. ''Governor Bush and Karl Rove did not go around in March of 1998 saying that they were going to significantly increase their performance among Hispanics.''
 Nonetheless, Mr. Bush, in his 1998 race for re-election as governor of Texas, did specifically set out to outperform himself and other Republicans in order to demonstrate his electoral strength. 
 In the end, Mr. Bush won 47 percent of the state's Hispanic vote. That was unprecedented for a Republican, and a performance that ''helped brand him, in a way, as a different kind of Republican, one that could go get votes among constituencies that hadn't been traditionally Republican,'' said Matthew Dowd, a strategist for Mr. Bush.
 Similarly, Mr. Dowd said, Mrs. Clinton is ''going to need to win upstate in smaller communities that may have even voted against her last time, to show she's got their votes now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at the St. Patrick's Day parade on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%) Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Anne E Kornblut; Raymond Hernandez; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006



596 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Riding High On a Tide of Oil; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Alberta Gallops Ahead, as Eastern Canada Struggles 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: FORT McMURRAY, Alberta 

 BODY:
Canada's wild west is going corporate.
 In the last big energy boom in this province, during the 1970's, the card room at the Calgary Petroleum Club was so full of Texas oilmen that seats at the poker table were rarely freed up until well into the early morning hours.
With oil prices high again, Alberta is hopping once more -- but with a twist. The skyline of Calgary, the business center of the province, is about to be altered by a large real estate project, and a big new jet runway to handle the influx of oil workers is already in place. While poker is still popular, conspicuous consumption these days includes such costly indulgences as white truffles and Mercedes-Benz convertibles.
 The change is reflected in the very nature of the oil business here: once built around conventional drilling, in which independents played a major role, oil is now extracted through a heavy industrial process requiring huge capital investments. 
 Some of the biggest international oil companies plan to sink 100 billion Canadian dollars ($85.5 billion) over the next decade into developing the gooey oil sands that are at the heart of Alberta's growing wealth and political influence. The oil sands have transformed Alberta into the epicenter of a new energy-based Canadian economy that promises to be even more crucial to the United States.
 The region is also taking a page from the Texas playbook.
 Stephen Harper from Calgary was elected in January as Canadian prime minister; his free-enterprise, tax-cutting political philosophy is closer to Houston's than Toronto's.
 As more oil flows, economic power and population are shifting westward from the traditional manufacturing centers of Ontario and Quebec, which are lagging in comparison. The rising west is splitting the national economy, forcing industries back east to retool and reorient manufacturing to supply the growing oil economy.
 Here in Alberta, every week seems to turn up an announcement of a new refinery, a pipeline project or a land bid. To a lesser extent, the same is happening in neighboring British Columbia and Saskatchewan.
 ''It's a seesaw effect,'' said Todd Hirsch, chief economist for the Canada West Foundation, a research group based in Calgary. ''What's driving Alberta, western Canada and resources up are what's driving Ontario and Quebec down: the emerging Asian strength and the strength of the Canadian dollar.''
 The energy companies say their investments in oil sands fields are just the beginning. The fields hold estimated reserves equivalent to as much as 175 billion barrels of oil, or more potential energy content than the oil fields of Iran and Libya combined. Oil sands production has risen to just over one million barrels a day today, from 400,000 barrels in 1995; it is projected to rise to 2.7 million barrels in 2015.
 Alberta has long been cowboy country, a cattle center in the heart of the Canadian Bible Belt. But in recent years oil has given it the fastest-growing population of any province, with people lured from elsewhere in the country and even outside Canada because salaries are growing faster than anywhere else.
 ''We're a big laboratory in how to absorb so much investment,'' said Gwyn Morgan, executive vice chairman of EnCana, a Canadian energy company based in Calgary. ''None of us could have dreamed this would happen this quickly.''
 In Fort McMurray, the town closest to the oil sands, truck and bulldozer drivers come from as far away as Newfoundland and Labrador to earn six-figure salaries. They are buying up expensive pickup trucks as if they were toys.
 The town's population has increased to 61,000, from 33,000 in 1996, and housing is in such short supply that the average mobile home now sells for $277,000 Canadian dollars ($237,000) and couches are renting for about 500 Canadian dollars a month ($428).
 The crowding and labor shortages persuaded Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. to build a jet runway long enough to accommodate Boeing 737's to allow workers to commute to its giant new Horizon project. In Calgary, EnCana is about to build a new corporate headquarters over two square blocks that will be the biggest real estate development project in Canada in two decades.
 Restaurants, wine stores, art galleries and luxury car dealers are doing frenzied business. At a benefit auction earlier this month, one bidder paid more than 13,000 Canadian dollars ($11,120) to go fly-fishing on a local river with Ron A. Brenneman, president and chief executive of Petro-Canada. ''I don't see any black clouds on the horizon,'' Mr. Brenneman said with a smile. 
 The same might be said for much of Canada. Unemployment is at a 30-year low, the Toronto stock market reached a historical high this month and real estate is booming virtually everywhere. Oilmen here are now calling the Canadian dollar, which has climbed more than 35 percent against the American dollar since early 2002, a new petrocurrency.
 The high cost of extracting oil from oil sands is no longer a major impediment to production, now that oil prices are at $60 a barrel or more and most experts expect them to remain relatively high for years. There were only a dozen oil sands projects in Alberta a decade ago. Today there are about 60, and 55 more have been announced for the future.
 But Canada also has some losers amid the boom. Eastern manufacturers have had to retool, consolidate and shed 180,000 jobs in the last two years, as cheaper products enabled China to replace Canada as the top exporter of nonenergy products to the American market. Capital investment among manufacturers has decreased since 2000, although now it is recovering.
 ''There's no doubt we have a mild case of Dutch disease running in Canada,'' said Don Drummond, senior vice president and chief economist at TD Bank, referring to the deindustrialization of the Netherlands after the discovery of North Sea gas in the 1970's.
 Particularly hurt have been companies manufacturing household appliances, electrical equipment, plastic and rubber products, textiles and paper. 
 At Edson Packaging Machinery Ltd. of Hamilton, Ontario, one-third of the 85 workers were laid off in 2003. By switching to American suppliers, changing its product mix and putting more emphasis on service, Edson has rebounded somewhat and increased its payroll again.
 ''It's a tale of two economies,'' said Robert Hattin, Edson's president. ''The resource-based economy is hot and manufacturing right now is facing challenges we haven't seen before.'' 
 Alberta has 10 percent of the population, but directly produces 15 percent of Canada's gross domestic product. Both numbers are likely to rise in the coming years, economists say. 
 ''This is pretty close to the hub of Canada right now,'' said Kevin Ellsworth, a 42-year-old Shell truck operator from eastern Canada who moved here nearly four years ago. ''Every time you turn around there's another plant project coming to town.''
 Mr. Ellsworth's enthusiasm is typical of many workers here and fits neatly with the dimensions of his job. His dump truck carries 400 tons of oil sands and reaches seven stories high when its box is lifted on its hydraulic cylinder. With overtime, he can make more than 100,000 Canadian dollars a year.
 Shell's oil sands venture contains enough pipe to stretch from Calgary to San Francisco and its mile-long conveyor belt has the largest capacity in the world. But the venture is only going to become bigger. 
 After several stalled oil sands efforts, Shell was faced in 1996 with the prospect of losing a lease on land north of Fort McMurray that it now believes holdsmore than five billion barrels of oil. With a barrel of oil worth under $20 a barrel at the time, development of the oil sands did not seem worth the investment.
 But Shell brought in Chevron and another partner and went ahead with a project three years later, just as the price of oil was poised to climb. In less than four years and with an investment of 5.7 billion Canadian dollars ($4.9 billion) its project is already producing 155,000 barrels a day.
 That was only the beginning. New land acquisitions and at least two more mines are planned over the next decade. A 7.3 billion-Canadian-dollar ($6.2 billion) expansion will add another 100,000 barrels a day by 2009. Shell hopes to reach 500,000 barrels a day by 2015, equivalent to half the current daily production in all of Texas.
 ''It's the 'holy cow,' '' said Craig Simpson, a Shell mining engineer. ''What people don't realize is how big this is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig Simpson, a Shell mining engineer, at the Muskeg River Mine oil sands project north of Fort McMurray, Alberta. (Photo by John Ulan for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Workers arriving at dawn at the Muskeg River Mine. Oil prices of $60 or more have made oil sands production more economically viable.
Darren Knight, a housing framer, left Edmonton, Alberta, to work 250 miles north in Fort McMurray. He was at a condominium construction site. (Photographs by John Ulan for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Graph: ''Tale of Two Economies''With Ontario's manufacturing base struggling, tax receipts for the province's government have declined. At the same time, tax receipts for Alberta's government have risen, thanks to the boom in oil production, which is concentrated in western Canada.GOVERNMENT BUDGET SURPLUSES AND DEFICITSFigures are for fiscal yearsGraph tracks budget surpluses and deficits since 1999.OIL PRODUCTIONFrom Canadian oil sandsGraph tracks oil production since 1997.(Sources by Government of Ontario
Government of Alberta
Alberta Energy and Utilities Board
 Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers)(pg. C4)Graph: ''Rising in the West''Fed by rising energy prices and higher oil production, Alberta, in western Canada, has boomed in recent years while Ontario and Quebec, which are in the east, have struggled.GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCTIn constant Canadian dollarsGraph tracks Gross Domestic Product for Alberta, Ontario and Quebec since 1999. (Source by Statistics Canada)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POKER (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); AIRLINES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); TRENDS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POLITICS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Labor; Capital Investment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Population Shifts; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%) Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ALBERTA, CANADA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (74%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Alberta (Canada); Calgary (Alberta); Ontario (Canada); Quebec (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006



597 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: In Russia, Ample Supply, Few Pipelines

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: USINSK, Russia 

 BODY:
Once a tent camp for geologists, this Siberian settlement is here for only one reason: oil. A train to Moscow takes two days. Grocery stores sell reindeer meat. Summers run from the end of June to the beginning of August. 
 Despite its remote location in the far north, Usinsk has some inherent advantages. An export terminal a few hundred miles away on the Arctic Ocean could supply tankers able to reach the United States in nine days. Building a pipeline to Europe would feed the high-quality oil directly to another ravenous market.
But for now, the Russian government controls exports. So instead, oil from here is pumped into a maze of state-run pipelines stretching far to the south, where it is blended with inferior oil and sold at a discount.
 ''What can we do?'' asked Sergei M. Nesterenko, director of Northern Oil, a subsidiary of the state-owned Rosneft. ''Once it's in the pipe, we no longer control the oil.'' 
 The failure of this oil-rich location, named the Timan-Pechora Basin, to carve out an economical export route reflects a wider struggle in Russia. The country, considered a great potential source of energy for the world, is trying to bring market mechanisms to its energy industry -- but wants to do so without losing government control. 
 To become more profitable and influential, Russia's oil and gas industry needs to modernize, analysts say, adding in upgrades like a new northern pipeline. To finance drilling and development, Russia is turning to foreign investors, with Rosneft planning an initial public offering in July. But the pipelines will remain entirely in government hands. ''This is Russia,'' said Eric Kraus, an analyst at Sovlink Securities in Moscow. ''You have lots of cacophony on these issues. It won't be resolved soon.''
 Indeed, Russia is the only major oil exporter with an industry that is neither wholly state-controlled, as it is in Saudi Arabia and most other nations in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, nor fully privatized, as it is in Canada and the United States.
 Russia could tilt either way. The United States has pushed for greater outside investment and market influence to help expand production, which would give American energy companies a stronger toehold. But the United States knows it must tread carefully. ''Countries have a right to develop their energy resources in the way they want to,'' David A. Sampson, a top deputy in the Commerce Department, said on a visit to Moscow in March. ''I'm here to advocate for a role for markets in allocating capital.'' 
 With 72 billion barrels, Russia has the largest proven reserves of conventionally recoverable oil outside of OPEC, according to Nicola Pochettino, a senior analyst at the International Energy Agency in Paris. That puts Russia in seventh place worldwide or eighth if Canada's reserves of oil sands are counted. 
 By comparison, Saudi Arabia, including the neutral zone on the border with Kuwait, holds 262 billion barrels of proven reserves, the world's largest known supply. 
 But consuming nations parched for oil are hoping Russia still has big reserves yet to be discovered. The United States Geological Survey estimates that Russia holds the largest undiscovered pools of oil in the world. The agency estimated Russia has another 80 billion barrels that are likely to be discovered in coming decades. 
 Russian production is growing again, after a drop when the Kremlin effectively nationalized Yukos, once Russia's largest private oil company. But across the country, examples of inefficient energy policies abound, many springing from private companies trying to coexist with the state monopoly on export routes. 
 Many, like the settlement in Usinsk, about 1,000 miles northeast of Moscow, are Soviet legacies of waste. City elders still debate whether families should be moved south and the city -- a collection of concrete slab houses amid the snow drifts -- converted back to a camp for oil workers. That would save a great expense for companies, which are stuck with the bill for maintaining indoor sports centers and other services for residents. Other inefficiencies are Russia's own doing. The Russian government in 2003 vetoed one ambitious plan to build a new pipeline. The project was proposed by an investor group led by Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former Yukos chairman who is now in jail. Meanwhile, the government delayed a state-run alternative for years. A government pipeline planned by Transneft, a pipeline operator, is going forward, but at a slow pace. A terminal on the Arctic coast could deliver oil from the Timan-Pechora to the United States far faster than suppliers from the Middle East and Africa, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. 
 Another sign of waste is the practice of burning natural gas at fields. There is no current incentive to tap the gas, because the market in Russia is still underdeveloped. And while private companies have licenses to develop gas fields, Gazprom, the state gas company, has a monopoly on exports. 
 Outside Usinsk, at oil fields owned by Lukoil and Rosneft, the pillars of fire burn year-round; satellite images above Siberia capture vast swaths of wilderness lighted up with gas flares, like cities on fire. In one year, Rosneft flares an amount of natural gas equivalent to what a city the size of Denver would consume annually. 
 ''Unfortunately there's no gas pipeline here,'' said Andrei M. Uskov, the chief engineer at Northern Oil. ''We can't sell it, so we try to use as much as we can to power the field, and the rest we burn.'' The company says it hopes to ship gas from Usinsk in the future. 
 Light and heavy oils are mixed in pipelines throughout Russia. Thus, the Ural Blend crude that flows out of the Druzhba export pipeline to Europe, for example, sells at a discount of about 5 percent to the benchmark Brent crude from the North Sea because the Russian oil is of lower quality, with high sulfur content.
 With Russia's oil exports bringing in roughly $500 million a day, the discount costs Russia dearly. 
 Politics, analysts say, lie behind the practice. The heavier crude oils are principally drawn from fields underneath the politically restive Muslim enclaves in Tatarstan and Bashkortostan, neighboring states about 500 miles southeast of Moscow. 
 Doing away with the practice of mixing different qualities of oil would effectively end a subsidy to these minority Muslims, a sensitive issue in the internal politics of Russia. This winter, President Vladimir V. Putin said he wanted to eliminate the Ural Blend product by separating oils in the pipeline. But no solid plans followed. 
 Predictably, the policy of blending oils in the pipeline discourages companies from investing in deposits holding the higher-grade crude sought by energy-hungry refiners in the United States and Europe. 
 There is easily refined low-sulfur oil, called light sweet crude, outside Usinsk. But there is no incentive to develop those outlying fields in the tundra, because there is no premium on higher-quality oil in Russia. 
 Meanwhile, the collision of old-school Russian state control and the demands of a modern energy industry went on display in Usinsk in March.
 Rosneft, eager to show off its prime assets before its initial public offering, invited journalists to fly by helicopter to the Val Gamburtsev field north of town. 
 In midflight, near the halfway point, the helicopter swooped in a wide arc to circle back to the original airport, landing in a miniblizzard of snow powder sprayed by the rotors. Without explanation, Russian military air traffic controllers had closed the destination airspace to foreigners, said Yevgeny Fokin, a publicity agent working for Rosneft. 
 ''They do this sometimes,'' he said glumly. ''Somebody wanted to show their authority.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Unrecovered natural gas burning in Russia. (Photo by Andrew E. Kramer for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Rosneft's oil pumping station near Usinsk pipes oil southward, where it is mixed with inferior oil and sold. A northern pipeline could open up the United States market, nine days away via an oil tanker. (Photo by Rosneft)(pg. C4)Map of Russia and surrounding area highlights Usinsk: An oil pipeline from Usinsk to the sea could raise Russian exports. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; Reserves (Natural Resources); International Trade and World Market; Foreign Investments; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Rosneft; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (56%); ROSN (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

PERSON: Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) ARCTIC OCEAN (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (72%) Siberia; Usinsk (Russia); Timan-Pechora Basin (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006



598 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Shiite Leaders Halt Talks After Raid Backed by U.S.
Furious Shiite Iraqi political leaders suspended difficult talks over the formation of a new government. The source of the latest trouble was an American-backed military raid on a Shiite religious compound that killed at least 16 people. A1

France Gets Ready for Protest 

With Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin determined to put a new labor law into effect, France is bracing for what is being called ''black Tuesday'' -- strikes and demonstrations throughout France that could bring up to two million people out on the streets and paralyze much of the country. A1

Christian Convert Released
The Justice Ministry of Afghanistan has released a jailed Afghan man who faced the death penalty for converting to Christianity, a spokesman said. Abdul Rahman has been in custody for weeks but has not been formally charged. A3

Uncertainty After Ukraine Vote
In an election with no clear victor that was declared by international observers to be the country's freest since its independence from the Soviet Union, the Ukraine was in gridlock as the leading political parties jockeyed for advantage to appoint a newly empowered prime minister and government. A7

Low Turnout Predicted in Israel
Israelis vote today in their fourth national election in seven years, and it is widely billed as one of the most important ballots in Israel's history. Despite the high stakes Israeli pollsters are predicting voter turnout which would be the lowest ever, more than 10 percentage points below the norm. A6

No Move to Arrest Liberian
The Liberian president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, has asked Nigeria to extradite Charles G. Taylor to Sierra Leone to face trial for war crimes. Nigeria has said that Liberia is free to come and arrest Mr. Taylor; it has made no public move to detain him. A9

NATIONAL A10-15

Measure on Immigration Advances in the Senate
With Republicans deeply divided, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to legalize the nation's 11 million undocumented immigrants and to grant them citizenship provided that they hold jobs, pass criminal background checks, learn English and pay fines and back taxes. A1

Terrorist Defends Self in Court
Zacarias Moussaoui, who is facing the death penalty for the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, took the witness stand in his own defense, only to bolster the government's case by unhesitatingly acknowledging the charges in the indictment against him and adding a few new, self-incriminating statements. A1

Gunman Uttered One Phrase
The 28-year-old man who killed six young people at a Seattle house party over the weekend before killing himself had more than 300 rounds of ammunition and said only, ''There's plenty for everyone,'' as he carried out the attack, the police said. A10

Border Checkpoint Fails Test
Undercover Congressional investigators successfully smuggled into the United States enough radioactive material to make two dirty bombs even after it set off alarms on radiation detectors installed at border checkpoints, a new report says. A14

First the Web, Now Washington
As lawmakers and regulators begin eyeing its ventures in China and other countries and as its Web surfers worry about the privacy of their on-line searches, Google has begun ramping up its lobbying and legislative operations after largely ignoring Washington for years. A13

Iraqi Intelligence Data for All
American intelligence agencies concluded long ago that Saddam Hussein had no unconventional weapons and few ties to Al Qaeda before the 2003 invasion, but an experiment in public access is giving anyone with a computer a chance to examine intelligence documents. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Newark's Longtime Mayor Won't Seek Re-election
Mayor Sharpe James, who 11 days ago entered the race for a sixth term as mayor of New Jersey's largest city, dropped out, signaling the end of a 20-year period in which the city's downtown underwent a revival. A1

Deadlock on Medicaid Fraud
Eight months after promising action against Medicaid fraud, New York state lawmakers have deadlocked on two pivotal issues. B1

Mayor Tackles S.I. Traffic
Mayor Bloomberg, seeking to address a single problem that Staten Islanders have persistently complained about, traffic, presented a package of transportation improvements that seeks to make Staten Island's car-based culture a bit more dependent on mass transit. B1

Van Driver May be Charged
The driver of the minivan that crashed in the Andes last week, killing 12 tourists from New Jersey and Connecticut and injuring two others, is likely to be charged with involuntary manslaughter later this week, according to Chilean prosecutors. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Debating the Danger of Bird Flu
While the gradual spread of the avian flu virus from Asia into Europe and Africa has been cause for serious concern among many experts, others argue that a human pandemic is by no means inevitable. F1

Health & Fitness F5

OBITUARIES B7

Lyn Nofziger
The cigar-chomping former newspaperman who served as spokesman and strategist for Ronald Reagan in Sacramento and Washington, he was 81. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Plea Deal in KPMG Case
David Rivkin, one of 17 former KPMG employees indicted over sales of questionable tax shelters, pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy and tax evasion and has agreed to cooperate with the government. C1

G.M.'s Self-Made Obstacle
General Motors' jobs bank, which pays idled workers full salary and benefits, provides such a good deal that it might be an obstacle as the company tries to persuade thousands of workers to take buyouts. C1

Bell Labs and a Lucent Deal
Lucent's Bell Labs, which has a long history of working for the military, is expected to become a focal point when the company's merger with Alcatel is presented to regulators in Washington for approval. C1

Alberta Becomes Oil Mecca
Some of the biggest international oil companies plan to sink 100 billion Canadian dollars into the development of oil sands in Western Canada, transforming Alberta into the epicenter of a new energy-based Canadian economy. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Big oil's big windfall; eBay at the bar; free trade and AIDS drugs; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Adwaitya.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E8
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ARRESTS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RELIGION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); INDICTMENTS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (64%); WAR CRIMES (63%); WITNESSES (63%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (57%); ELLEN JOHNSON-SIRLEAF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (94%); LIBERIA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006



599 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Who Moved My Fromage? 

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
As student protesters and workers try to paralyze France today, I don't suppose many of them are looking to America to come to their country's aid. Nor do I suppose many Americans are in the mood for a new Marshall Plan. But I have a modest proposal anyway. 
 Someone needs to rescue France from its self-proclaimed malaise. Close to a quarter of its young people are unemployed, but they're too busy burning cars to look for jobs. They're protesting a new policy allowing workers under age 26 to be hired for a two-year trial period during which -- quelle horreur! -- they could be easily fired. 
This policy, intended to encourage companies to take a chance on inexperienced workers, is being denounced for producing ''slave jobs.'' It would be ''like living beneath a guillotine,'' said Charlotte Billaud, a Sorbonne student. 
 ''We're not disposable -- we deserve better,'' said another student, Aurelie Silan. ''Aren't we the future of France?''
 Yes, mademoiselle, you are. That's the problem. What kind of college student wants a lifetime employment guarantee for the first job out of school? France's future is a generation of students whose idea of a good career -- chosen by 75 percent of them in one poll -- is a government job.
 The leaders of the French Revolution called for constant daring: ''L'audace, l'audace, toujours l'audace.'' Today's street protesters have another motto: ''Contre la Precarite.'' Against Precariousness! 
 Legend has it that when Napoleon's Imperial Guard was cornered by the British at Waterloo, its leader boldly declared: ''The Guard dies. It does not surrender.'' Today's French can't even stand up to unarmed foreigners. When French young adults were asked what globalization meant to them, half replied, ''Fear.''
 Beneath that facade of arrogance, the French are suffering from a condition apparent to any American. They have low self-esteem. They're not feeling empowered. They need that great engine powering our economy: the American self-help industry. 
 The French produce great Camembert, but they haven't absorbed the wisdom of Spencer Johnson's modern classic, ''Who Moved My Cheese?: An A-Mazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life.'' They haven't heeded Donald Trump's instructional CD, ''Think Like a Billionaire.'' They haven't mastered Stephen Covey's ''Seven Habits of Highly Effective People'' or Anthony Robbins's ''Awaken the Giant Within.'' 
 A few French men and women have looked across the ocean for guidance -- Robbins says he advised Francois Mitterrand -- but the French masses still haven't awakened their inner giants. And they won't, unless we help them help themselves by sending over the titans of the American self-actualization movement.
 This Marshall Plan B wouldn't cost American taxpayers much beyond a few French lessons, plane tickets and hotel rooms. The French might initially resent the intrusion -- they have that fear of new things -- but we can reassure them: there's a precedent. The U.S. government sent them the pioneer of self-help literature, Benjamin Franklin, and Paris loved him.
 The only serious objection I expect is from Americans worried about our G.N.P.: Could the American economy struggle along without these gurus? But I think we're ready to go it alone, thanks to the billions of dollars of wisdom we've already stockpiled. 
 We've learned secrets like ''Be Proactive'' and ''Think Win/Win'' (two of Covey's seven habits). We now realize, thanks to Robbins, that ''the past doesn't equal the future.'' We've paid $19.95 for Johnson's revelation: ''Movement in a new direction helps you find new cheese.''
 We can afford to share this knowledge with the French. If they understood Covey's radical Win/Win theory -- ''Seek agreements and relationships that are mutually beneficial'' -- French students might not be marching today. They might wonder why they'd want to spend the rest of their lives (well, at least until they retire in their 50's) working for someone who doesn't want them around.
 If the French students studied Johnson -- ''The quicker you let go of old cheese, the sooner you can enjoy new cheese'' -- they might even consider the possibility of changing jobs. We could send them French versions of Donald Trump's CD, ''How to Launch a Great Career,'' which does not include instructions for burning cars. 
 Eventually we could introduce them to Trump's television show, but not right away. There's a good reason ''The Apprentice'' hasn't made it to French TV. For now, ''You're fired'' translates as ''We riot.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%) Demonstrations and Riots; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); ANTHONY ROBBINS (50%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (95%) France

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006



600 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: BILL TO BROADEN IMMIGRATION LAW GAINS IN SENATE 

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
With Republicans deeply divided, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted on Monday to legalize the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants and ultimately to grant them citizenship, provided that they hold jobs, pass criminal background checks, learn English and pay fines and back taxes.
 The panel also voted to create a vast temporary worker program that would allow roughly 400,000 foreigners to come to the United States to work each year and would put them on a path to citizenship as well.
The legislation, which the committee sent to the full Senate on a 12-to-6 vote, represents the most sweeping effort by Congress in decades to grant legal status to illegal immigrants. If passed, it would create the largest guest worker program since the bracero program brought 4.6 million Mexican agricultural workers into the country between 1942 and 1960. 
 Any legislation that passes the Senate will have to be reconciled with the tough border security bill passed in December by the Republican-controlled House, which defied President Bush's call for a temporary worker plan. 
 The Senate panel's plan, which also includes provisions to strengthen border security, was quickly hailed by Democrats, a handful of Republicans and business leaders, as well as by the immigrant advocacy organizations and church groups that have sent tens of thousands of supporters of immigrant rights into the streets of a number of cities to push for such legislation in recent days. 
 But even as hundreds of religious leaders and others rallied on the grounds of the Capitol on Monday, chanting ''Let our people stay!,'' the plan was fiercely attacked by conservative Republicans who called it nothing more than an offer of amnesty for lawbreakers. It remained unclear Monday night whether Senator Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, would allow the bill to go for a vote this week on the floor or would substitute his own bill, which focuses on border security. His aides have said that Mr. Frist, who has said he wants a vote on immigration this week, would be reluctant to move forward with legislation that did not have the backing of a majority of the Republicans on the committee.
 Only 4 of the 10 Republicans on the committee supported the bill. They were the committee chairman, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, and Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Mike DeWine of Ohio and Sam Brownback of Kansas. All eight Democrats on the committee voted in favor of the legislation.
 The rift among Republicans on the committee reflects the deep divisions in the party as business groups push to legalize their workers and conservatives battle to stem the tide of illegal immigration. Mr. Specter acknowledged the difficulties ahead, saying, ''We are making the best of a difficult situation.'' But he said he believed that the legislation would ultimately pass the Senate and would encourage the millions of illegal immigrants to come out of the shadows.
 ''We do not want to create a fugitive class in America,'' Mr. Specter said after the vote. ''We do not want to create an underclass in America.'' 
 ''I think this represents a reasonable accommodation,'' he said, referring to the divergent views on the panel. ''It's not a majority of the majority, but it's a good number.''
 Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, said Monday night that President Bush was ''pleased to see the Senate moving forward on legislation.'' Mr. Bush has repeatedly called for a temporary worker program that would legalize the nation's illegal immigrants, though he has said such a plan must not include amnesty.
 ''It is a difficult issue that will require compromise and tough choices, but the important thing at this point is that the process is moving forward,'' Mr. McClellan said.
 Lawmakers central to the immigration debate acknowledged that the televised images of tens of thousands of demonstrators, waving flags and fliers, marching in opposition to tough immigration legislation helped persuade the panel to find a bipartisan compromise.
 ''All of those people who were demonstrating were not necessarily here illegally,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who sponsored the legalization measures with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. Mr. Kennedy described the people who would benefit from the bill as ''our neighbors,'' adding: ''They're churchgoers. They're the shop owners down the street. They're the people we know.''
 The protesters were rallying in opposition to the security bill passed by the House. The House bill would, among other things, make it a federal crime to live in this country illegally, turning the millions of illegal immigrants here into felons, ineligible to win any legal status. (Currently, living in this country without authorization is a violation of civil immigration law, not criminal law.)
 The legislation passed by the Judiciary Committee on Monday also emphasized border security and would nearly double the number of Border Patrol agents over the next five years, criminalize the construction of tunnels into the United States from another country and speed the deportation of illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico. But it also softened some of the tougher elements in the House legislation.
 Addressing one of the most contentious issues, the panel voted to eliminate the provisions that would criminalize immigrants for living here illegally and made an amendment to protect groups and individuals from being prosecuted for offering humanitarian assistance to illegal immigrants.
 Conservatives on the committee warned that the plan would generate a groundswell of opposition among ordinary Americans who had been demanding tighter controls at the border and an end to the waves of illegal immigration.
 Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said the Judiciary panel ''let the American people down by passing out a blanket amnesty bill.''
 Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, said the foreign workers would take American jobs during a recession. ''Get ready for a real tough time,'' Mr. Kyl said, ''when American workers come to your office and say, 'How did you let this happen?' ''
 Under the proposal, participants in the temporary worker program would have to work for six years before they could apply for a green card. Any worker who remained unemployed for 60 days or longer during those six years would be forced to leave the country. (Employers could petition for permanent residency on behalf of their employees six months after the worker entered into the program.)
 The legalization plan for the nation's illegal immigrants would require those without documents to work in the United States for six years before they could apply for permanent residency. They could apply for citizenship five years after that. Immigrants would have to pay a fine, back taxes and learn English.
 Mr. Graham called it an 11-year journey to citizenship.
 ''To me that's not amnesty,'' he said. ''That is working for the right over an 11-year period to become a citizen. It is not a blanket pardon.''
 ''The president believes and most of us here believe that the 11 million undocumented people are also workers,'' Mr. Graham said. ''We couldn't get by as a nation without those workers and without those people.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators, clockwise from far left, Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona
Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio
Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas
Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina
and Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, conferring yesterday on the immigration bill. (Photo by Joe Marquette/Bloomberg News)(pg. A12)
 Demonstrators protesting an immigration measure at the Capitol yesterday displayed a Honduran flag. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); AMNESTY (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); FARM LABOR (75%); RELIGION (65%); AGRICULTURE (54%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Foreign Labor; Citizenship; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (78%); JON KYL (58%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%) Rachel L Swarns; Bill (Sen) Frist; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

 
