

201 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Charity Begins At the Board. Just Ask A.I.G.

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT has to have been a bewildering few weeks for Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief executive of the American International Group. One minute his company is producing record revenues and he is high-fiving himself on Congress's passage of tort reform, one of his passions. The next minute he is dumped from the company he has run for almost 40 years and finds himself facing an under-oath interview with prosecutors from the Justice Department, Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York attorney general's office, the same guys he used to bully on a regular basis.
 You almost feel sorry for the man. Exalted for so long, he forgot what it was like to be questioned. 
 It is impossible to get inside someone else's head, of course, but one of the most puzzling aspects of Mr. Greenberg's downfall, to him at least, might have been the role his 10 outside directors played in it. The people who ultimately pushed him from power were, after all, his hand-picked colleagues, people who had been with him, in some cases, for more than a decade. Many of them were also people he encountered in other high-powered orbits, and he donated generously to their favorite causes. 
 A.I.G.'s directors include M. Bernard Aidinoff, retired partner at Sullivan & Cromwell; Pei-yuan Chia, retired vice chairman of Citicorp; Marshall A. Cohen, former chief executive of the Molson Companies, a Canadian brewer; William S. Cohen, the former senator and secretary of defense; Martin S. Feldstein, the Harvard economist who is mentioned as a possible successor to Alan Greenspan.
 Joining those five luminaries are Ellen V. Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History in New York; Carla A. Hills, former United States trade representative; Frank J. Hoenemeyer, retired vice chairman of the Prudential Insurance Company of America; Richard C. Holbrooke, former ambassador to the United Nations; and Frank G. Zarb, former chairman of the Nasdaq stock market and senior adviser to Hellman & Friedman, a private investment firm. 
 Clearly a star-studded board. 
 And a collegial one, too. Besides their common interests in the workings of A.I.G., many of the outside directors also share Mr. Greenberg's interest in world affairs. Half are directors or members with Mr. Greenberg at the Council on Foreign Relations, an independent policy group. 
 Over the years, Mr. Greenberg connected with many of his outside directors in another way: by making big donations through the Starr Foundation, a nonprofit organization he controls, to institutions that some A.I.G. directors led or belonged to. 
 Contributions to such outfits surpassed $44 million from 1998 to 2003, the most recent figures available. (The information for 1999 was incomplete.) This is a sizable sum, to be sure. Still, it is less than 5 percent of the donations that Starr has made during the five years for which public figures are available. 
 The Starr Foundation was created by C.V. Starr, the founder of A.I.G., in his will. According to the most recent filing, it had roughly $3.6 billion in assets, mostly in A.I.G. shares. It is a major contributor to education: 34 percent of the $190 million it distributed in 2003 went to academic scholarships. The rest went to cultural and charitable institutions like Carnegie Hall, the Children's Aid Society and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. It also made donations to New York Times Company Foundation projects.
 Florence A. Davis is president of the Starr foundation, but Mr. Greenberg is its chairman and, according to the filing, devotes 200 hours a year to its business. Ms. Davis did not return a phone call seeking comment. Mr. Greenberg, through his lawyer, declined to comment.
 One of the biggest recipients of Starr funds is the Asia Society, which aims to educate Americans about Asia. In 2003, Starr paid $2.6 million to the society, of which Mr. Greenberg is a trustee. Mr. Holbrooke is both a trustee and the chairman of the society's executive committee. 
 Large contributions -- more than $26 million -- have also gone to the American Museum of Natural History, where Ms. Futter is president. The foundation gave the museum $1 million in 1998; Ms. Futter joined the A.I.G. board the next year. In 2000, Starr contributed $100,000, but it gave an astounding $25.1 million in 2001. An additional $100,000 came the museum's way in 2003.
 Groups that Ms. Hills has been associated with have also received considerable donations from Starr. The National Committee on U.S.-China Relations received a total of $1.85 million during the period, while the Institute for International Economics got $3.2 million. The Trilateral Commission received $120,000.
 The Brookings Institution, which counts Mr. Aidinoff as a council member, received $1.95 million from Starr during the period. And the Council on Foreign Relations received almost $7 million. 
 THEN there is Mr. Feldstein's National Bureau of Economic Research, which has received about $3 million since 1998. The William S. Cohen Center for International Policy and Commerce, at the University of Maine, received a total of $1 million in 1999 and 2000, four years before Mr. Cohen joined the A.I.G. board.
 Finally, the Frank G. Zarb School of Business at Hofstra University took in $675,000 in 2003; Mr. Zarb joined the A.I.G board in 2001. 
 Chris Winans, an A.I.G. spokesman, said, ''The board's decisive actions have demonstrated its strong independence.'' He added that Mr. Zarb had no knowledge of any donations that the Starr Foundation made to the Frank G. Zarb School of Business since Mr. Zarb joined the A.I.G. board. None of the other independent directors who are connected to groups that received Starr donations would comment. 
 A.I.G., in its most recent proxy statement, says directors can be considered independent as long as contributions to the nonprofit organization they run do not exceed $1 million or 2 percent of the charitable organization's gross revenues for the most recent year. 
 The donations to Mr. Feldstein's National Bureau of Economic Research did exceed those amounts. But the proxy said the board, on the recommendation of the nominating and corporate governance committee, had determined that the contributions did not ''impair'' his independence. The proxy also said Mr. Feldstein had advised the committee that there was ''no present intention to seek additional funding for the bureau from the Starr Foundation.''
 Did the foundation's contributions to the directors' favored organizations influence them as the recent crisis unfolded at A.I.G.? None of the directors would comment on that. 
 Still, human nature being what it is, the contributions could not possibly have made the directors' decision to defenestrate Mr. Greenberg any easier. 
 The Starr Foundation is clearly doing crucial work in the arts, medicine and education. But shareholders have a right to wonder if all those donations to the directors' favorite charities are clouding their judgment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TORTS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); TORT REFORM (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (82%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (82%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (64%); CITIGROUP INC (54%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); TAP (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (82%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (57%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



202 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Three Hundred Million Maniacs

BYLINE: By William Saletan. 
William Saletan writes the Human Nature column for Slate. He is the author of ''Bearing Right: How Conservatives Won the Abortion War.''

 BODY:

AMERICAN MANIA
When More Is Not Enough.
By Peter C. Whybrow.
338 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95.

THE HYPOMANIC EDGE
The Link Between (a Little) Craziness
and (a Lot of) Success in America.
By John D. Gartner.
354 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26.
 A CENTURY ago, a proponent of free markets might have produced admiring biographies of the captains of industry. A populist critic might have issued a manifesto. Today, argument and interpretation won't do. To win an economic debate in our age of incredulity, you need a higher authority: science. That's the authority asserted by John D. Gartner, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University Medical School, and Peter C. Whybrow, the director of the Neuropsychiatric Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, whose new books invoke monkey research, human biology and case studies in business psychology to substantiate their views of the economy. In a delightful twist of the marketplace of ideas, the collision of those views -- and of their appeals to science -- yields a felicitous result: a case study in the psychology of psychologists.
 Gartner concedes he can be high-strung. A few years ago, he was a passionate technology investor -- in effect, he says, a messianic follower. He ''hooted like an elated primate'' when his portfolio soared. He favors italics and exclamation points. He calls things ''stunning'' and ''enormous.'' He argues that there is an American temperament that has made the nation the world's most successful. He loves the market that ''liberated'' entrepreneurs. He calls a cleaning job at Wal-Mart ''the first rung of the American ladder.'' Whybrow is more wary. He fondly recalls the rural village where he farmed a bit as his daughters grew up. He distrusts America's ''flouting of international agreements'' on nuclear weapons and the environment. He laments cuts in government spending on schools and social services. He argues that a ''Fast New World'' of nonstop global commerce is making us ill. He blames Wal-Mart, Disney and McDonald's.
 Both men are talking about a condition called hypomania, characterized by a persistent high that is short of the full-blown mania of manic-depression (or bipolar disorder) and not routinely followed by a depressive low. And both present themselves as pure scientists. Gartner says his profiles of dead entrepreneurs, ''written by a psychologist,'' are ''clinical case histories that illustrate hypomania in action.'' Whybrow insists his politics play ''no part in my concern. What does is my growing awareness, as a practicing psychiatrist and a behavioral scientist, that American culture is becoming detached from some fundamental truths about human behavior.''
 In Gartner's case, the promise of scientific rigor soon melts. He says he has interviewed 10 dot-com C.E.O.'s, and each fits his criteria for hypomania. ''One hundred percent of the entrepreneurs I interviewed were hypomanic! This couldn't be chance,'' he exults. ''It felt as if I had tested the waters with my little pilot study and been hit with a tidal wave.''
 To verify that mania and hypomania are ''radically different,'' Gartner consults the psychiatrist's bible, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. But the manual says the diagnostic criteria are virtually identical, so he turns to surveys, hoping to prove that hypomania is widespread. The surveys indicate only one in 1,000 people is hypomanic, so Gartner broadens the criteria, arguing that anyone who admits to having gone through ''a period of greatly increased energy'' is hypomanic. He presents his list of hypomanic criteria to an expert on business leaders. The expert says he's never seen any scholarly literature on these criteria and suggests a different diagnosis. Gartner dismisses it. At every turn, he's amazed that nobody else sees the ''invisible'' thread of hypomania.
 Whybrow sticks closer to the literature. Hypomania is ''the second stage of a developing mania,'' he explains. An ordinary psychiatrist would apply this diagnosis to one patient at a time, but Whybrow wants to heal society. So he interprets the Internet boom and bust as collective manic depression: excitement, risk, irrational exuberance, megalomania, profligate spending, collapse, confusion, reflection, anxiety. ''Greed and envy had become a national disease,'' he writes, noting that in 1999, Amazon lost $350 million, and by 2002, economists were ''burying'' the company. Why does the story have to end in 2002? Because by the end of 2003, the company was turning a profit.
 This is the danger of diagnosing a whole society: you start selecting theories to fit the evidence, but you end up selecting evidence to fit the theory. Whybrow makes the economy look more manic than it is by devoting dozens of pages to the Internet bubble; in choosing business leaders to study, Gartner tellingly devotes none. Gartner profiles only one living entrepreneur, Craig Venter, who sequenced the human genome. The genome project suits Gartner's theory. It covers the same period as the Internet bubble but yields a more impressive legacy. Hypomania works! Still, to make his case, Gartner has to look past Venter's manic dysfunctions -- reckless spending, self-destructive abrasiveness, bad decisions, revisionism -- and credit him for the labor and ideas of others: the aide who organized Venter's ''chaos''; the colleague who figured out how to shortcut the sequencing job; the government researchers whose data Venter mined. Venter was still the man behind it all, says Gartner, because ''a genius is someone who acts on a good idea when he hears one.''
 Both authors think immigrant vitality drives America's economy and is probably genetic. But their agreement ends there. Gartner, like the 19th-century social Darwinists, assumes our form of capitalism is natural, not cultural. ''I would attribute the number of hours Americans work to what I call the 'immigrant work drive,' an internal biological compulsion passed from parent to child through their hypomanic genes,'' he writes. The entrepreneurial ferocity others call the ''American character'' is really a genetically based ''American temperament,'' he asserts.
 Whybrow disagrees. Like 19th-century critics of capitalism, he sees our economy as a recent perversion of nature. Temperament and character are different, he argues. Genes shape temperament, but culture shapes character. American energy and self-interest may be innate, but our crazy society converts our temperament into crazy work hours. We've replaced the communities and local markets that once circumscribed our material craving with an impersonal global economy that inflames our craving into mania. Our culture is misdirecting our biology -- and destroying it. We're becoming sleep-deprived, anxious and fat.
 Capitalism's manic energy has made us wealthier, but at a price. Gartner compares it to the sickle cell gene carried by many Africans. Most carriers get one copy of the gene, which protects them from malaria. But some get two copies, which cause sickle cell anemia. Is the gene good? That depends on which disease worries you more. In the case of mania, Gartner likes the deal. ''The cold truth is that humanity has a large supply of people to waste, and in the calculus of evolution a bunch of troublemakers who come to no good are a fair price for a Meriwether Lewis or a Craig Venter,'' he writes. To Whybrow, the price is too high. Too many people are exploited, neglected, indebted, time-starved and sick.
 Which author is right? Look at their behavior. One says hypomania is dangerous. His grandiosity skews his reporting a bit, but his analysis is coherent and documented. The other says hypomania is productive. He throws together a few entertaining minibiographies, leaps to radical genetic conclusions with minimal evidence and disregards negative feedback. His inquiry, such as it is, answers itself. If hypomania does for us what it does for its diagnostic defenders, we're in trouble.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); CASE STUDIES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%); PRIMATES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



203 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: In Westchester, Employers and Workers Feeling the Pain of a Bus Strike

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
As the Bee-Line bus strike grinds through its sixth week, Westchester County businesses whose employees depend on buses are growing increasingly exasperated trying to get workers to their jobs.
 At the Atlanta Bread Company in White Plains, the owner, Eric Hartstein, said he has had to open at 8 a.m., an hour and a half later than usual, sacrificing some of his coffee-and-bagel business, because all but one of his 35 employees depend on buses to get to work. 
 At Monroe College in New Rochelle, cheerleaders were scarce at a recent basketball playoff game because several members of the squad had to work the cash registers at a Stop & Shop supermarket when their co-workers who depend on buses had no way to get to work. 
 And White Plains Hospital Center, where more than a quarter of its 1,400 workers normally ride a bus to work, is using every nonemergency vehicle in its fleet to ferry employees to work, some from across the Hudson River. ''It's been a strain, a significant challenge,'' said Richard P. Biondi, vice president for development and community affairs, observing that the hospital is a 24-hour-a-day operation. 
 Bee-Line's 568 striking workers, members of Local 100 of the Transit Workers Union, walked off their jobs on March 3 over a number of issues, primarily the age at which employees can retire and receive a full pension. About 50,000 people rode the bus every day, two-thirds to get to work, where most earn less than $35,000 a year, according to county officials. A federal mediator is trying to resolve the differences.
 Marsha Gordon, the president of the Business Council of Westchester, said that the effects of the strike have cut across all sectors of the economy. She said health care providers and nonprofit organizations have been particularly hard hit. 
 Susan Tolchin, the chief adviser to County Executive Andrew J. Spano, who has come under criticism for traveling to China on a trade mission during the strike, said small retailers have been hurt the worst, because of no-show employees and customers. 
 Mr. Hartstein, the Atlanta Bread Company owner, said he has been encouraging his employees to sleep at the homes of friends who live nearby, but the results have been disappointing. 
 ''Employees are showing up with their clothes a mess and in the same outfits.'' he said. ''It's not good for business.'' He added that his workers are ''constantly moaning about getting pay raises to pay for the cabs. It's been vicious.'' 
 Timothy C. Idoni, the mayor of New Rochelle, said that restaurants in particular have been hard hit. But he said that some businesses along North Street, a commercial strip, have been helped by the strike because hundreds of students from New Rochelle High School who normally take Bee-Line buses are now walking -- right down North Street on their way home. 
 ''The foot traffic has really increased, and some of the stores have been adding soda and candy to cater to the students,'' he said.
 Less lucky are merchants in retail centers like the Cross County Mall, which rely heavily on public bus traffic, Ms. Tolchin said. The county has recently been running buses for older residents to such places. The county is also starting a program to compensate welfare recipients and the working poor for the cost of getting to work.
 Commuters who take Metro-North to White Plains and then ride a bus to one of the many office parks along the Interstate 287 corridor have also been disrupted by the strike. 
 Some businesses and property managers have rented vans to shuttle workers from train stations. Ellen Lynch, the managing director of East Ridge Properties, with four office parks, has vans running loops during commuter-rush periods. 
 But in this county, where unemployment hovers at only 4 percent, not all businesses have been touched by the strike. 
 David Logan, president of the board of Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, said that nearly all his employees, from diggers to grounds workers, drive cars. 
 And Pat Riso, a spokesman for Kraft Foods in Tarrytown, said that employees who usually take the bus have found other modes of transportation.
 But most employers, said Cloey Sepe, the president of the Mount Vernon Chamber of Commerce, ''are just struggling, and many employees are just taking a lot of sick days.''
 Ms. Gordon of the Business Council of Westchester said, ''The longer this goes on, the more frustrated people are getting.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With Bee-Line workers on strike, Horace Lewis, left, of the Bronx and Alvin Williams of Queens arrived by van Friday at the Metro-North station in White Plains. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); STRIKES (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HEALTH CARE (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ATLANTA BREAD CO INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (58%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



204 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: The Next Investing Frontier: Lower Fees

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
UNTIL recently, the mutual fund industry faced few questions about what it charged investors. There was the occasional outburst from regulators involving high-pressure salesmanship but almost nobody complained about advisory fees for managing portfolios or the multiple costs of constant trading.
 That has changed. These days, sales methods are not so much in question -- other than the practice of using fund assets to pay for marketing and distribution -- but recurring operational fees have become a major subject of scrutiny.
 In the process, some investors have become disenchanted with mutual funds, recognizing the toll that fees take on performance. Nevertheless, fees have been falling significantly. Shareholders paid 1.25 percent of assets in stock and hybrid funds, on average, in 2003, including hefty but indirect sales commissions, down from 1.35 percent in 1998, and 2.05 percent in both 1988 and 1983, according to sales-weighted figures provided by the Investment Company Institute, the industry's trade group. 
 Investors have noticed. Last year, 76.2 percent of net new cash flow into stock funds went to those with total expense ratios of 1 percent or less. That compares with 47.6 percent in 1995.
 One impetus for the closer look at costs, besides the sobered investment climate since the Internet bubble burst, is the belated realization that small differences in fees make huge differences in results when compounded over many decades.
 Another is low-cost competition from a new product: index funds that can be traded on exchanges.
 Then came the campaign against late trading and market timing by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. That put shoddy industry practices on public view and led to settlements in which several companies cut fees. (Late trading involves receiving a given day's fund price for orders placed after the close of trading that day. Market timing is the practice of short-term trading in fund shares to exploit market-moving news.) ''Improper trading and the exorbitant fees charged are both consequences of a governance structure that permitted managers to enrich themselves at the expense of investors,'' Mr. Spitzer told Congress in November 2003. 
 The Spitzer campaign focused on fund families including Alliance Capital Management, Massachusetts Financial Services, Putnam Investments, Janus Capital Group and Strong Financial. So far, in the opinion of some fund officials, consultants and critics, the campaign has had relatively little effect on fees elsewhere in the industry. 
 ''You're seeing token concessions here and there that suggest they're restructuring their fees,'' said Gordon Daisley III, a financial adviser and associate vice president at Morgan Stanley in Washington. And Stephen Norwitz, a vice president at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore, said the Spitzer campaign had not had ''a widespread impact in the industry.'' 
 John C. Bogle, the founder of Vanguard and a persistent critic of fund managers, said that Mr. Spitzer's efforts had reinforced competitive pressures acting to bring down costs -- although not enough to seriously impair the industry's hefty profits. Mr. Bogle estimates that the industry collects about $63 billion in total fees each year and spends $27 billion on marketing and administration and $5 billion on managing portfolios.
 REFERRING to the remaining $31 billion, Mr. Bogle said, ''Profit margins in this business are extremely high, almost 50 percent.''
 In fact, the efforts of Mr. Spitzer and other regulators have led to some fee increases, such as the imposition of redemption fees on funds with relatively illiquid portfolios, to discourage market timing. T. Rowe Price, which has not been the target of an investigation, has extended such fees to 401(k) accounts. In addition, sponsors of some new funds, realizing that they will likely be feeling pressure to reduce fees, may have initially set them a bit higher than they would have a decade or so ago. Still, the underlying downward trend seems unmistakable.
 Consider the decision last month by Fidelity Investments, the industry's biggest fund family, which since 2003 has levied no sales charges on funds sold directly to investors. It permanently limited the annual expenses of five of its domestic equity index funds to one-tenth of 1 percent. This is just over half the lowest comparable rate charged by the Vanguard Group, which has long boasted of its low costs.
 ''The index fund thing was thought out a long time ago'' as part of an integrated, customer-friendly brokerage, bond and advisory strategy, said Jeff Carney, president of Fidelity Personal Investments. ''It was long before Spitzer came on the scene.''
 He said index funds had become a commodity -- and were being priced accordingly.
 Russel Kinnel, director of mutual fund research at Morningstar, said: ''More investors have more low-cost options than ever before. In the index arena, we're seeing something close to a price war.''
 What's more, the chief enforcement official at the Securities and Exchange Commission, Stephen M. Cutler, has questioned why index funds in general charge a wide range of fees for similar, market-mimicking work.
 As of April 1, the Capital Research and Management Company, which sponsors the American Funds group, indefinitely waived 10 percent of its management fee on all 29 of its funds, doubling the reduction it began without fanfare last year.
 It said this action, which it estimated would save its investors about $200 million a year, or about $3 for a $10,000 investment in its biggest fund, reflected economies of scale. The group, whose expenses were already well below the industry average, has attracted huge amounts of fresh money in the last two years. 
 Increasing numbers of fund buyers have become more attentive to the price of fund investing, which they tended to dismiss as unimportant. That might have been rational when many funds gained 25 percent or more a year, as they did in the late 1990's, but costs loom larger when returns are modest.
 Many fund investors have also noticed that most professional managers underperform their benchmarks, and not entirely because of costs. That has prompted investors to wonder how much value these managers add. 
 Portfolio management and other operational expenses account for 70 percent, on average, of the fees levied on investors in stock funds, with distribution costs accounting for the rest, half of them under Rule 12b-1 of the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the Investment Company Institute. 
 Investors are learning more about the impact of costs even though a majority pay for professional help in making investment selections from a proliferation of funds and classes of fund shares.
 ''There's study after study out there that show that cost is the primary determinant of fund performance,'' said John S. Woerth, a spokesman at Vanguard, which last year had an aggregate expense ratio of 0.23 percent, down from 0.54 percent in 1984. ''The message is starting to get out. Consumers are smart. They're beating a path to the low-cost providers.''
 Burton J. Greenwald, an independent fund consultant in Philadelphia, said that while antiterrorism legislation like the Patriot Act had added to industry costs because of more stringent reporting standards, limiting the ability to cut fees, the explosive increase in exchange-traded funds had pushed in the opposite direction. Last year, individual investors surpassed hedge funds and other institutions in total E.T.F. trading.
 ''The market forces are probably more important'' than Mr. Spitzer and other regulators, Mr. Greenwald said. ''There's real competition, especially from E.T.F.'s.'' 
 Recently, a handful of funds have even trimmed 12b-1 fees, which, in combination with the introduction of various classes of fund shares, have largely been substituted for front-end sales commissions, or loads. One such group is Hartford Mutual Funds, which on Nov. 1 cut the fees on Class A shares of its more than three dozen retail funds to 0.25 percent from 0.30 percent.
 In general, for funds sold with commissions, Class A shares carry front-end loads, Class B shares carry declining back-end loads prompted by redemptions and Class C shares charge a recurring annual percentage of an investor's account. 
 These fees, used mainly to pay brokers and financial advisers who market fund shares and for administrative services, are also under study by the S.E.C. 
 Last month, Putnam agreed to pay $40 million to settle S.E.C. accusations that it had failed to properly disclose that it used fund brokerage commissions rather than Putnam's own cash to compensate those who sold its shares. The S.E.C. has proposed to bar directed brokerage, as this practice is called. 
 Reflecting the settlement, the Dec. 31 semiannual report of Putnam's International Equity fund, for example, contains fresh detail about the fund's expenses, including dollar amounts, and data comparing the fund's portfolio turnover and risks with those of similar competitors. 
 ORIGINALLY, 12b-1 fees were envisioned as a temporary device to allow funds to reach viable size and were first adopted by no-load fund companies, which lacked a sales force. But now the fees, paid out of fund assets, compensate brokers and others who sell fund shares, and pay for advertising, and for the printing and mailing of prospectuses and sales literature to new investors. Even some funds closed to new investors charge 12b-1 fees. 
 But even if the visible impact of Mr. Spitzer's mutual fund campaign has been scattered, it nonetheless ''has been an unbelievable plus,'' Mr. Bogle said. In the end, he added, ''costs will have to come down for competitive reasons.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cutting Costs''The expenses of equity mutual funds have declined over the years.Graph tracks shareholder costs of equity mutual funds as a percentage of assets (sales-weighted avg.) from 1980 to 2003.(Source by Investment Company Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); SALES & SELLING (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); SALES COMPENSATION (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); INDEX FUNDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (58%); MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



205 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Oh, to Be in England Now That April's There

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''We're just princesses, all of us,'' said Anita Summer, her clipped Cockney twang still pronounced 50 years after she left her native London. 
 Ms. Summer, a Westbury resident who was born in the East End, is a former regent of the Daughters of the British Empire's Westminster Abbey chapter, on Long Island. Like the other 42 members of the expatriate group, she continues to be infatuated with all things British. 
 ''We all love the royal family, with all their faults,'' said Ms. Summer, long ago a reporter for the Daily Mirror in London. ''We're all human. To err is human.'' 
 When the Queen Mother turned 100 in 2000, Ms. Summer's coterie of loyal subjects held a fund-raising party. They celebrated again for Queen Elizabeth's golden jubilee in 2003. ''I love America, but I love England, too,'' Ms. Summer said. ''It's where my heart is.''
 So at a recent luncheon meeting of the Westminster Abbey chapter, Ms. Summer discussed plans for a high tea April 17 at her home in honor of the marriage of Prince Charles to Camilla Parker Bowles. 
 ''Why not?'' Ms. Summer said. In fact, the only dissension in the British sisterhood swirled around whether Mrs. Parker Bowles should be allowed to become queen. 
 ''She obviously loves him,'' Ms. Summer said. ''They are getting on in years. Why not let them finish out their years together?'' 
 For the occasion, Ms. Summer promised that her basement would be decorated with Union Jacks and British memorabilia, including a water glass that Princess Margaret asked Ms. Summer to hold at a party in 1974. Ms. Summers, who was covering the event at the Waldorf-Astoria as a journalist, not only kept the glass, she never washed it. 
 ''Dress appropriately,'' she told the women gathered at the home of Victoria Crosby, the current regent, who lives in Glen Cove. ''Don't come in your usual shmattes. Dress like the last royal function you went to, with tiaras.''
 The devotees to the crown meet monthly at one another's homes and at restaurants on the Island. They tend to be a forgiving lot. For Christmas they had a luncheon at the George Washington Manor in Roslyn.
 ''They were all British, those malcontents,'' said Ms. Crosby, who grew up in Cheshire in the north of England, came to America at 19 for a job, quickly married an American and raised four sons on Colonial soil. She holds both British and United States citizenships. 
 The chapter, the largest of eight in New York State, is mainly a social organization but also raises money for the Victoria House in Ossining, one of four nursing homes supported by the 5,000 members of the Daughters of the British Empire nationwide, and for the British Garden being created in Manhattan in memory of the British victims of Sept. 11. 
 The nonprofit group was founded in 1909 for women of British birth or parentage. To qualify, Ms. Summer said, ''British blood should be flowing through their veins.''
 The Nassau-Suffolk chapter more than doubled in size after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997, when British expatriates were incensed that Queen Elizabeth was criticized for seeming cold and detached about the funeral. 
 ''Why is it that when J.F.K. was assassinated and Jackie Kennedy stood to attention with the children, everyone said how wonderful she was and how marvelous, and when our queen did the same thing she was criticized?'' Ms. Summer recalled asking at the time. 
 Two weeks ago Ms. Crosby mailed Prince Charles a flowery congratulatory card on his marriage that she bought for $3.69 at the Stop & Shop in Glen Cove. A quick reply stamped ''Royal Mail'' from the secretary of Clarence House, the prince's official residence, said the Prince of Wales and Mrs. Parker Bowles, were ''immensely touched'' by her kind words. 
 But Ms. Crosby's loyalty to the crown is even more evident. Her doorbell plays ''Rule Brittania,'' and her waterfront house is decorated like an English cottage, with a collection of Queen Victoria figurines and memorabilia on display. An autographed commissioning letter from the queen to a soldier hangs over the fireplace. Touristy mugs from Prince Charles's 1981 wedding to Diana and Princess Anne's 1973 wedding to Capt. Mark Phillips, along with a teapot with a picture of King Henry VIII and a model of a royal wedding coach, sit on the mantelpiece.
 Ms. Crosby, the poet laureate of Glen Cove and the director of the Morgan Park Summer Festival, said the women's common heritage drew them together. 
 ''As British women we feel a stronger attachment to our mother country since we left,'' Ms. Crosby said. ''We would move in different circles if we were in England.'' 
 As a young woman, Valerie McPhillips, 71, worked as a typist at Scotland Yard. In 1961, at the age of 26, she came to visit a cousin in Port Washington and stayed. She worked as a waitress for 30 years. Two years ago she joined the Daughters of the British Empire. 
 ''I love hearing the accent,'' Ms. McPhillips said, noting that their British inflections tend to get thicker when the members meet. ''It helps me get over my little homesickness.''
 The group includes a royal cook. Diane Kaiser of Rocky Point, an owner of Brown's Tavern in Locust Valley, was born in Scotland and worked as a chef for the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester at Kensington Palace from 1982 to 1985. 
 Lesley Pryde Haley, formerly a soprano with the English National Opera, hails from Australia but lived in London for five years before relocating to Sea Cliff a dozen years ago. She came to the luncheon to consider joining the group. 
 ''I'm from the colonies,'' Ms. Pryde Haley said. ''It used to be part of the British Empire.''
 Betty Cairns of Sea Cliff said that the British women had a different experience from other immigrants. ''We did not come to this country as refugees,'' she said. ''We didn't come for economic reasons or for religious persecution. We came for love.''
 When they get together, many of the women reminisce about their experiences during World War II. Inevitably, the talk turns to tea. 
 ''I defend this country to my last breath, but they can't make tea,'' said Ms. Summer, who strayed across Atlantic waters in 1955 after marrying an American she met in postwar Switzerland. ''When I first came here, I brought my English tea. It didn't taste the same, and I thought, what am I doing wrong? I am doing everything I should do. It finally dawned on me. American water and English tea are not a good marriage.''
 Ms. Summer said she now has her tea bags sent from Canada. 
 The women also swap British recipes, share jokes and chatter about the royal family. 
 ''We are really thrown together by chance,'' Ms. Summer said. ''We come together from all different parts of the empire. You could make friends, and you love and adore them, but they don't remember what happened during the worst air raid on London, or what happened when you were bombed out and you had to try on your gas mask.''
 Their connection to their motherland and to one another is strong. 
 ''You sing an old song, and they know the words,'' Ms. Summer said. ''It's just the fact that you are bound together by this intangible something called memory. And memory is wonderful.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At a gathering of the Daughters of the British Empire, from left above: Lesley Pryde Haley, Anita Summer, Shirley Landy and Victoria Crosby. Ms. Crosby's display of Victoriana, left. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); FAMILY (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); WRITERS (70%); CHRISTMAS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (56%); CAMILLA, DUCHESS OF CORNWALL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



206 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: The 48ers

BYLINE: By Kevin Mattson. 
Kevin Mattson is the Connor Study professor of contemporary history at Ohio University and the author, most recently, of ''When America Was Great.''

 BODY:

THE BEST YEAR
OF THEIR LIVES
Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon
in 1948: Learning the Secrets
of Power.
By Lance Morrow.
312 pp. Basic Books. $26.
 SOMETHING has happened to the American presidency in recent years. We seem to have become used to hearing the most lurid details about the occupants of the highest office, not only about Jack Kennedy and Bill Clinton, but even about Abraham Lincoln allegedly loving other men and Thomas Jefferson in the slave quarters. So is it any surprise that a new book about three postwar presidents claims to document their ''deceit'' and ''political ruthlessness'' and ''pathological'' behavior? Kennedy, Richard Nixon and Lyndon Johnson had ''personality disorders,'' Lance Morrow argues in ''The Best Year of Their Lives.'' Today, he says, ''Nixon and Johnson would be accused of clinical paranoia'' and Kennedy of such a degree of ''personal recklessness'' as to call into question his ''moral sanity.''
 Morrow paints this psychic picture by going back to the late 1940's, when all three were emerging as major players on the national stage. This was a fateful time. In the popular imagination, 1948 may be remembered as a year of Ozzie-and-Harriet complacency, when America stood supreme in the world, its economy coasting into prosperity. But it was also very much a period of anxiety, with worries about the bomb, the cold war and domestic subversion. American culture reflected this darkness in film noir, and in Whittaker Chambers's pessimistic writing for Time (and, more important, I'd argue, in the popularity of Reinhold Niebuhr's gloomy theology). The movie Morrow snatches for his title, ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (actually released in 1946), shows G.I.'s bewildered by a transition from war's brutality to normalcy. 
 For Morrow, storm clouds hover over each man's public steps that year. Nixon's ''political opportunity'' came with the controversy he generated by helping Chambers make his case that Alger Hiss, Ivy Leagued and privileged, was a spy deceiving the American people. Johnson's came when he ran for senator and lied about his opponent, Coke Stevenson, while hiding details about his own campaign finances. As for Kennedy, 1948 was the year he took to lying about his health (while seducing nearly every woman in his path). Detailing secrecy and ruthlessness, Morrow, a journalist, a professor at Boston University and the author of six other books, draws lines from 1948 to the Bay of Pigs, Vietnam and Watergate.
 Darkness can turn hilarious in this tale, mostly through Morrow's funny stories about Nixon's awkwardness and Johnson's grossness. Traveling in an elevator with the interviewer David Frost, Nixon thought he could break the ice by asking: ''So, David. Did you do any fornicating over the weekend?'' There's the comical way Nixon bounced up and down, watching ''Around the World in Eighty Days,'' exclaiming: ''Watch! Here comes the elephant!'' Johnson demonstrated his infantile manners when he forced his advisers to ''confer with him while he sat on the toilet.''
 Morrow's a good writer and storyteller. But at times he overreaches. A comparison between Nixon and the actress Lana Turner -- two Californians who were ruthless and withdrawn -- goes on much too long. More troubling is Morrow's psychologizing. Nixon here is an ''anxious good little boy interrogating his mother's gaze for approval or disapproval.'' And ''if God had an id,'' Morrow explains, ''that was where Lyndon Johnson came from.'' In Morrow's reading, the psychological makeup of his three subjects seems almost to predetermine later events -- Vietnam and Watergate especially. But this flattens out the dynamic of history.
 Although ''The Best Year of Their Lives'' lacks new details, newness isn't everything, and the book succeeds in drawing together three fascinating characters into an illuminating historical intersection. You don't have to agree with all of Morrow's interpretations to be entertained by his lively treatment of three crucial figures during an important time in American history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); COLD WAR (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); PERSONALITY DISORDERS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); FILM GENRES (64%); FILM (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (93%); RICHARD NIXON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



207 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Increase That Bush Didn't Mention

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
CYNICS have long predicted that the Bush administration, plagued by budget deficits, will eventually start raising taxes. But now it is becoming clear how it would do so: the alternative minimum tax.
 Baffling in its complexity and often bizarre in its impact, the alternative minimum tax is a giant undeclared tax increase that will ensnare tens of millions of moderate-income families in the next several years.
 It was created in 1969 to prevent the very rich from using tax deductions to avoid paying a fair share of taxes. But when the deadline for filing income tax returns arrives on Friday, the alternative minimum tax will require 2.9 million families to pay an average of about $6,000 more than what they would owe under traditional calculations 
 That is just the start. If current law remains unchanged, the alternative minimum tax is expected to wring an extra $33.9 billion from 18 million households in 2006. In 2010, it will rake in an additional $100 billion, and by 2015 an extra $200 billion.
 Make no mistake: no one says they want that to happen. But it is one thing to rein in or eliminate the tax itself, and an entirely different matter to give up the money that it would generate.
 President Bush has promised to fix the alternative minimum tax as part a fundamental overhaul of the tax code, and he has ordered a bipartisan advisory panel to come up with recommendations by the end of July. 
 But in giving the panel its marching orders, White House officials made it clear that they are counting on the extra money regardless of what happens to the alternative tax. Under the president's instructions, the panel's recommendations on addressing the alternative minimum tax are supposed to be ''revenue neutral,'' neither raising nor lowering taxes, and to assume that his income-tax cuts will be made permanent rather than expire in 2010, as required under current law.
 Making those ordinary income-tax cuts permanent would reduce the amount of available revenue by about $1.8 trillion over 10 years. But White House officials told the panel that any change to reduce or eliminate the alternative minimum tax would have to be offset by higher taxes someplace else.
 ''My understanding is that any reform in the A.M.T. that loses money would have to be made up with offsetting revenue,'' said Elizabeth Garrett, a panel member and a professor of law at the University of Southern California.
 Jeffrey F. Kupfer, executive director of the tax panel and a former Treasury official, confirmed that interpretation. ''Our mandate is to be revenue-neutral, and we are interpreting that with respect to the president's policy baseline, which does not include a permanent fix to the A.M.T.,'' he said in an interview last week.
 Tax experts have long complained that the alternative minimum tax is a ''stealth tax increase,'' one that Congress never intended and that is likely to catch millions of taxpayers by surprise. But a tax increase through tax reform could be even stealthier. If the alternative tax is reduced, the offsetting revenue increases are likely to be buried in so many other changes that most people would never know what hit them.
 Seen or unseen, the looming tax increases are almost as large as the president's tax cuts. Leonard E. Burman, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, estimated that the government would have to raise ordinary income tax rates substantially in every bracket to offset the money lost in each bracket by the elimination of the alternative minimum tax. People in today's 28 percent bracket, for example, would have to pay a top rate of 35 percent. Those who now pay a top rate of 33 percent would pay 41.4 percent.
 ''The A.M.T. is a huge tax increase built into current law,'' Mr. Burman said. ''What the current law assumes is that over time we move to a tax that is much less progressive, that has atrocious marriage penalties and penalizes people with children who live in high-tax states.''
 Taylor Griffin, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said the administration's goal was to prevent a hidden tax increase by replacing the alternative tax with something that was easier to understand and more predictable. ''What we are trying to do is prevent a stealth tax that sneaks up on you,'' he said. ''If we don't do something, millions of Americans will be facing unanticipated tax increases.''
 The alternative minimum tax is similar in some ways to a flat tax that blocks people from using most of the big deductions that reduce their taxable income under the normal rules. A married couple with a gross income of $100,000, for example, must first calculate its tax bill the traditional way, then again under the A.M.T. In the alternative calculation, the couple gets to exclude $58,000 from taxation, but it must also strip out all the personal exemptions and most itemized deductions.
 The prohibited deductions include those for state and local taxes, medical expenses, employee business expenses and interest on home-equity loans. The A.M.T. would then apply a flat tax of 26 percent (28 percent for couples who earn more than $175,000). The couple must pay whichever is higher, the tax calculated under the traditional method or the one under the A.M.T.
 The huge looming tax increase is caused by two things. The first is that the exclusion level for the alternative minimum tax is not adjusted for inflation, so the tax affects more people each year as nominal incomes go up. The second, paradoxically, stems from Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. 
 Those cuts reduced regular tax rates at all income levels but did not change the alternative minimum tax. At the same time, some of the cuts came in the form of expanded deductions -- the child tax credit, child care tax credits and bigger exemptions for married couples -- that are not allowed under the alternative formula.
 The effect of making Mr. Bush's ordinary income tax cuts permanent would be significant. Mr. Burman, at the Urban Institute, estimated that the alternative minimum tax would generate about $69.2 billion in extra tax revenue in 2015 if the president's income tax cuts expired on schedule. But if the White House persuaded Congress to make the cuts permanent, the alternative minimum tax would raise a staggering $200.8 billion in that one year.
 If the A.M.T. itself is pared back, how would that tax increase show up in practice? The possibilities are almost limitless, from higher tax rates for everybody to the abolition of popular tax deductions.
 Administration officials are almost certain to insist that any tax reform result in lower tax rates and fewer deductions. Many Republicans long for a flat tax or a national sales tax, but that would mean abolishing or reducing sacred cows like the tax deduction for mortgage interest.
 A potential trade-off, but a politically explosive one, would be to eliminate deductions for state and local taxes, which cost the Treasury about $40 billion a year and are a big reason that many people become subject to the alternative tax. But getting rid of those deductions would cause howls of protest in Democratic-leaning states like New York and California, which tend to have above-average tax burdens.
 Thus far, the issues have been so tangled and vexing that both the White House and Congress have simply opted to block increases in the alternative minimum tax with one-year and two-year patches.
 But that will become expensive. By about 2008, Mr. Burman estimates, the alternative minimum tax will generate so much money that it would be cheaper to abolish the regular income tax.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Other Income Tax''Alternative minimum tax revenue projections.Graph tracks alternative minimum tax revenue projections under current law and if tax cuts are extended from 2005 through 2015.(Source by Tax Policy Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



208 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Gauging That Other Company Asset: Its Reputation

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS regulatory issues keep troubling Wall Street, some investors are beginning to wonder: Are sound business ethics not only a sign of a morally good company, but of a good investment as well?
 Jim Huguet certainly thinks so. At the very least, Mr. Huguet, the president of Great Companies L.L.C., a money management firm based in Clearwater, Fla., argues that sticking with companies with sound ethical practices, including transparency, accountability and a shareholder-friendly corporate governance structure, is a good way to avoid land mines in your portfolio. 
 ''This is not about feeling good about doing the right thing,'' said Mr. Huguet, whose firm oversees $1.3 billion in assets. ''It's about returns and protecting those returns.''
 The list of companies whose shares have been battered amid accusations of wrongdoing is a who's who of widely held stocks. Among the latest victims has been the insurance giant American International Group, whose stock is down 21 percent this year. 
 A.I.G. is being investigated by regulators over transactions that may have masked the company's financial health. A.I.G.'s longtime chairman and chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, was forced to step down as a result of the controversy. 
 But it's not just A.I.G. The shares of the Marsh & McLennan Companies are off 36 percent over the 12 months; in late January, it agreed to settle a lawsuit by regulators accusing it of cheating customers by rigging prices and steering business to insurers in exchange for incentive payments. 
 And last fall, regulators in Japan ordered Citigroup to suspend its private banking operations there because of violations of the country's banking laws. Citigroup stock is down 12 percent over the last 12 months. Paying attention to a company's behavior is a strategy to reduce risk. ''The lesson here is to treat and research corporate governance issues like any other fundamental,'' said Andrew Metrick, an associate finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 Moreover, two academic studies conclude that investors appear to attach a good-citizenship premium to companies with solid governance structures and policies.
 One of those studies, published by Professor Metrick with Paul A. Gompers and Joy L. Ishii of Harvard in 2003, looked at the corporate governance attributes of roughly 1,500 companies from September 1990 to December 1999. It found that companies with strong shareholder rights provisions tended to exhibit higher profitability and sales growth, among other things.
 Companies that scored well on corporate governance issues also had higher Q ratios. This is an iteration of a statistical measure developed by James Tobin, the Nobel laureate economist; in this case it divides the market value of a company by its book value.
 Companies with good governance practices were rewarded with higher market values relative to their tangible assets than companies that scored poorly. ''There is a premium associated with good governance as far as we measured it,'' Professor Metrick said.
 A more recent study, a working paper released last year by Lawrence D. Brown, an accounting professor at Georgia State University and Marcus L. Caylor, a graduate student at the university, similarly found that investors were paying higher prices for companies with good governance.
 The Georgia State research found that some governance practices that are considered shareholder-friendly don't correlate with good fundamentals. For instance, it found that companies that split the roles of chairman and chief executive didn't necessarily generate a greater return on equity.
 But even without this correlation, investors are still willing to give higher valuations to companies that are deemed good citizens. Put another way, investors give some companies with good track records the benefit of the doubt. That may explain in part why Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has lost only about 1 percent of its value this year. A Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary, General Re, was party to a transaction that A.I.G. has said was accounted for improperly.
 Berkshire ''is a company with a culture of accountability, and that resonates with investors,'' said Gavin Anderson, chief executive at GovernanceMetrics International, a firm in New York that grades corporations on governance practices. (It does not have an official rating on Berkshire.)
 Mr. Anderson's firm recently studied the performance of companies that scored its highest rating: 10 on a scale of 1 to 10. Of 3,220 global companies, only about 1 percent received that score. Shares of those companies generated an average annual total return of 15.6 percent over the five years through Feb. 28. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 1 percent, annualized. 
 Of course, there is an inherent difficulty in trying to beat the market by choosing companies based on good corporate governance. Governance is just one issue; there are other fundamentals to consider, like earnings growth and profit margins. It's also hard to know that a company that is considered ethical today will seem so in the future.
 And it's important to distinguish between ethical business practices and social responsibility issues. Cases in point are so-called sin stocks, like shares of tobacco, gambling and alcohol companies, which have been on a tear over the last five years while the overall market has been flat. 
 Individual investors face another problem: they generally don't have access to private sector research, like reports from such firms as GovernanceMetrics, whose most basic data package costs $7,500 a year. 
 But at the very least, investors should look for past improper behavior in companies in which they're about to invest, Mr. Anderson said. A quick way, he said, is to run a search of a company's litigation and regulatory infringement history, much of which is available through public databases and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 ''What we're looking for when we search for this type of information is a pattern,'' he said. ''I would submit to you that if a company has a pattern of constantly being sued for improper business practices, that suggests its culture allows this type of behavior.''
 And that's precisely the type of company that should make an investor wary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS ETHICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INSURANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); LITIGATION (64%); BANKING LAW (63%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); PRIVATE BANKING (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); MMC (NYSE) (83%); MHM (LSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: JAMES R TOBIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



209 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Guess At Stadium Jobs Is Highest Yet

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg recently provided a new reason for building a 75,000-seat stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan -- and it's not the Olympics, conventions, or professional football.
 ''Keep in mind that what this is about is jobs, jobs, jobs -- and people need those jobs now,'' Mr. Bloomberg said the day the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted to sell development rights to the Jets so that they can build a $2.2 billion home on the Hudson.
 But the mayor, in his eagerness to become a champion of the working class and draw union support for the project, appears to be exaggerating the number of blue-collar jobs that would be created by the project, according to everyone from the Empire State Development Corporation to the Independent Budget Office and stadium critics. 
 In a burst of enthusiasm, the mayor said the stadium and exhibition hall would generate 7,500 permanent jobs. The Jets claim only 6,971, but that is still more than the combined payrolls at Giants Stadium -- the team's current home in the Meadowlands in New Jersey -- the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and Madison Square Garden, the busiest arena in the country.
 The state's general project plan for the proposed stadium estimates that a more modest 3,110 new jobs -- 45 percent of what the Jets claim -- will flow from the operation of the stadium and spending by visitors who attend Super Bowls, basketball games, concerts and trade shows there.
 The Independent Budget Office put the projected number of jobs at 3,791, a bit higher than the estimate by the state, which supports the project.
 Most National Football League stadiums schedule only 10 games each season, including two exhibitions. But the Jets contend that their stadium will be full much of the year with other sporting events, conventions, special events, ice skating shows and circuses. Still, the hot dog sellers, ushers and security guards, and the Teamsters who put up and take down exhibit booths, are not full-time workers.
 ''Typically, a stadium generates seasonal part-time low-wage jobs, although these will be union,'' said Robert A. Baade, a leading sports economist, who teaches at Lake Forest College. ''This is not a very efficient public works program. Someone has to ask, 'Is this good public policy, or not?'''
 Under the terms of the Jets deal with the city and the state, taxpayers would contribute at least $600 million toward the cost of what the Jets are calling the New York Sports and Convention Center. That would translate into a subsidy of $86,070 per job if the Jets projections are correct, or more than $190,000 per job if the state is right.
 Job projections are as much art as science, and the different results in this case arise from the fact that the Jets used an economic simulation model that was different from the one the Empire State Development Corporation and the Independent Budget Office used.
 The Jets acknowledge that the job numbers are wildly at odds. But, they say, the state and the budget office, along with the Jets, all say that the stadium will have an enormous economic impact. 
 ''Although the methodologies are different,'' Thad Sheely, the Jets vice president of development said, ''the conclusions are the same in the sense that this project will generate tens of millions of dollars in economic impact and thousands of jobs.''
 The state's analysis is certainly in line with the Jets, who say that the project will generate $72.5 million a year in state and city taxes, roughly $30 million more than it will cost the city and the state to subsidize it. But both the city and the state largely used the economic impact numbers produced by the team's consultant, Ernst & Young, according to state and city officials involved in the analysis.
 The I.B.O., however, was much more cautious, conducting its own analysis and concluding that the stadium would produce a $210 million fiscal surplus over 31 years, or only about one-fifth of what the Jets claim.
 None of the studies compared the impact of the stadium to alternative proposals in which government invested $600 million in public money in affordable housing, transportation projects, or job development on the piers in Red Hook. Some community groups and critics of the stadium say that kind of analysis would have put the stadium into some kind of perspective as to what is the city's best investment.
 In any event, the mayor and the Jets have won vociferous support from construction unions in the city. The reasoning is simple. The number of construction jobs in the city fell to 111,100 last year from a high of 122,000 in 2001, although the industry now appears to be on the rebound.
 ''We want jobs,'' Edward J. Malloy, president of the 100,000 member Building and Construction Trades Council, told a March 30 rally of several thousand construction workers. ''The only real way of creating long-term, sustainable jobs on the West Side of Manhattan is to move forward with the New York Sports and Convention Center.''
 But once again there are widely varying estimates of just how many construction jobs there will be. The mayor and the Jets contend that the project will generate 18,000 jobs. It actually means, the Jets acknowledge, that there will be an average of 4,500 jobs during the four years of construction.
 The budget office's estimate, however, was far lower than the Jets' -- an average of 2,880 construction jobs per year, and it did not bother multiplying that figure by four, because construction jobs by their nature are temporary.
 The state, in turn, came up with a higher number, 3,188, but still 1,300 shy of the Jets.
 The community and civic groups who opposed the stadium may have missed an opportunity to win union support when they failed to discuss job opportunities associated with their alternative to the stadium--building housing.
 Instead, the Jets capitalized on the issue, pledging not only to employ union workers, but also to ensure that a quarter of the workforce is black, Hispanic or women. That may not be as hard to achieve today as it was 10 or 20 years ago, given that minorities now make up 51 percent of the construction workers in New York City, according to the census.
 ''More than half our new members coming into apprenticeship programs are minorities who live in the city,'' said Paul Fernandes, chief of staff at the Building and Construction Trades Council. ''It's really one of the higher-paying blue-collar jobs you can get in the city, because there's no more manufacturing.''
 But Jim Haughton, who heads an organization that has fought discrimination in the construction industry for 40 years, said that far too many black union members are out of work today.
 ''There's nothing wrong with building the stadium,'' he said, ''but first things first. You could create thousands and thousands of jobs if you fixed up the infrastructure.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the number of jobs that could be generated by a Jets stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan suggested that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's estimate -- 7,500 -- was an exaggeration. That suggestion was based on more conservative estimates from other supporters of a stadium, including the Jets and the Empire State Development Corporation, and from budget watchdogs, like the city's Independent Budget Office. 
 While the article included comment from other parties to explain the discrepancies, The Times should have also asked the mayor's office for its response. On Monday evening, Edward Skyler, a mayoral spokesman, denied that the mayor's estimate was an exaggeration. He attributed the discrepancies to differences in the parties' methodology and in their assumptions about the number of special events and conventions that would be held at the stadium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Bloomberg says the proposed West Side stadium would help create 7,500 permanent jobs. (Photo by Ramon Talaie/The Associated Press)(pg. 34)Chart: ''Job Estimates''The estimated number of jobs that a new Jets stadium would create varies widely depending on who is doing the estimating.JETSCONSTRUCTION JOBS*: 4,500PERMANENT JOBS: 6,971STATE PROJECT PLANCONSTRUCTION JOBS*: 3,188PERMANENT JOBS: 3,110INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICECONSTRUCTION JOBS*: 2,880PERMANENT JOBS: 3,791*Average, over four years of construction. (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); BASKETBALL (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); ICE SKATING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



210 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Hit Man

BYLINE: By Michael Agger. 
Michael Agger is an associate editor at Slate.

 BODY:

CUT AND RUN
By Ridley Pearson.
368 pp. Hyperion. $23.95.
 Ridley Pearson writes best-selling crime novels. He's a best-selling kind of guy. He plays bass guitar in a band with other best-selling authors like Stephen King and Amy Tan, and he recently collaborated with the best-selling columnist Dave Barry on a children's book, ''Peter and the Starcatchers,'' a prequel to ''Peter Pan'' that quickly became a best seller. Like many successful people, he divides his time between locations, in this case St. Louis and Idaho. (Which, when you think about it, is more of a best-selling author state than, say, Montana, which has been overrun with sensitive midlist writers.) On his personal Web site, Pearson relates that a young adult novel is scheduled for publication in September, and he also details his various projects in television and film. About his poetry, he remains coy.
 While Pearson may be a cross-platform modern content provider, his crime novels remain his core business. It's a good moment for the genre, as we live in a restless era. Presumably there are readers out there who enjoy strolling through the mind of a serial killer while sitting at home on an old couch surrounded by sunlight. But the crime novel thrives in airports, on commuter trains and among the treadmill rows. (It also does well on audiotape.) A Pearson book would not be my first choice for an extended stay in a cabin in the permafrost. On a 22-hour plane ride to Tokyo, however, Pearson would be my man.
 Pearson's latest novel, ''Cut and Run,'' is what is known in the trade as a ''stand-alone.'' Urged on by their publishing houses, crime writers tend to write series. They introduce a character, and if the audience is there, they can extend the run for 6 or 17 more books. Pearson's original success was the continuing Lou Boldt-Daphne Matthews series, which is based in the Pacific Northwest and draws its momentum from the romantic tension between the main characters. But when a crime writer tires of his creations he will sometimes produce a new set of sleuths -- hence, the ''stand-alone,'' a venture into virgin territory and a chance to increase the readerly flock.
 The hero and potential franchise player of ''Cut and Run'' is Roland Larson, a federal marshal who dates on the job. He begins an affair with the witness he's protecting, Hope Stevens, a computer expert who has the goods on the Romeros, a secretive family involved in Medicare fraud. Some of the best contemporary crime writers introduce us to a particular milieu -- George Pelecanos, for example, who sets his novels in the African-American byways of Washington. In ''Cut and Run,'' Pearson's characters inhabit a generic world that you might call thrillerland, a place of violent weather (''The fall night air slapped him''), postcard-worthy locations and daft reasoning: if you need to track down your lost lover, concentrate on cities that offer performances of Shakespeare. She always loved Shakespeare. 
 Flimsy logic like this is what we expect, and it does not impair the enjoyment, or the escapism, of ''Cut and Run.'' Pearson designs his plots with the simplicity of a ball drop. Larson must protect Hope from an assassin who razors up his victims and also recover Penny, the daughter he never knew he had. The action set pieces unfurl with declarative ease, and the closest Pearson ever comes to pointless exposition is to relate that Penny likes ''Gogurts, pancakes and flank steak,'' none of which play a later role in the story. With its narrative economy and rock-'em-sock-'em encounters, ''Cut and Run'' is not all that different from a modern action movie, except in one major respect: the sex scene. What has become a chaste fade to black in the cinema remains, on the page, a heaving rhapsody. In print, the stars get naked.
 What, then, is the secret of Pearson's best-selling success? He's a storyteller, meaning that he's ruthless, trimming anything that distracts. He's also winningly conventional. The crime novel, for all its clinical descriptions of murder, is at heart a conservative entertainment. It excites and plays upon our fear of death, but it rarely introduces any real existential panic or sorrow. Especially in Pearson's hands. Sure, the heroine's Blackberry will chime at precisely the wrong moment, but we know that in the end the killer will be caught, that justice will be served, and that the hero will arrange it so that the little girl gets the dog she wanted. Every so often, the reader gets what he or she wants too: a little comfort food for the mind.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Jimmy Malecki)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BESTSELLERS (91%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); MARSHALS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); MURDER (73%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (73%); AIRLINES (73%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); POETRY (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); MEDICARE (70%); TRAINS (50%); MEDICARE FRAUD (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (77%); IDAHO, USA (77%); NORTHWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



211 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2864 words

HEADLINE: The Oracle of Omaha's Latest Riddle

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: OMAHA 

 BODY:
WHEN Berkshire Hathaway shareholders gather here in three weeks for their annual meeting, they will be treated to another homespun video starring the company's chairman, Warren E. Buffett. This year's plot is still a secret, but Mr. Buffett's co-star in last year's video was Arnold Schwarzenegger, the governor of California. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger appeared in Army fatigues and took Mr. Buffett -- who may be the Charles Atlas of investors but who has the musculature of a chipmunk -- through a grueling workout to punish him for criticizing inequities in California's property tax system. At the end of the video, Mr. Buffett graces the cover of a fitness magazine, sporting six-pack abs and rippling biceps, much to the governor's surprise.
 Amid the self-deprecating humor and sly winks at the Berkshire family of companies, Mr. Buffett's annual meetings, which attendees fondly call the Woodstock of American capitalism, are about much more than money. Each gathering is also a tutorial overseen by Mr. Buffett, a man widely regarded as a financial genius, a model for corporate integrity and someone who has spent his 74 years trying to integrate personal values such as honesty, trust and openness with the business, political and public worlds around him. 
 ''What Warren's trying to do with his life is to teach a grand lesson: the right way to run a business and the right way to live a life,'' said Charles T. Munger, Berkshire's vice chairman and one of Mr. Buffett's closest friends. ''A lot of people are coming to Omaha to reinforce the right way to live and the right way to run a company. I jokingly refer to it as a catechism.''
 Tomorrow morning, the Buffett catechism will come under scrutiny in New York. The Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, have asked Mr. Buffett to meet with them in Manhattan to discuss a wide-ranging investigation of insurance industry practices, some of which involve a Berkshire subsidiary. Mr. Buffett is a witness in the investigation, not a target, and several people involved in the inquiry said that there was no evidence that Mr. Buffett had either authorized or had knowledge of any malfeasance.
 But the investigation has forced Mr. Buffett, who has amassed a personal fortune that Forbes pegs at $41 billion, to respond to questions about accounting shenanigans and corporate subterfuge, practices that he has long railed against. People close to Mr. Buffett also say the investigation has left him fearful that his sterling reputation -- built patiently and purposefully during five decades as a professional investor -- will be sullied by events that have largely taken him by surprise. 
 Others around Mr. Buffett, in Omaha and elsewhere, acknowledge the potential risks that the investigation poses to his legacy, but they remain convinced that his accomplishments are so singular and authentic that he need not worry. 
 ''The chance that Warren Buffett wanted to make a little extra money out of a subsidiary that is a freckle of Berkshire's earnings is just madness,'' said Mr. Munger, 81, whose law firm is representing Mr. Buffett in the inquiry. ''I've been around him all these years. He's not that stupid and he's far too honorable.''
 ''We also believe candor benefits us as managers: The C.E.O. who misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in private.'' -- Warren E. Buffett,
 Berkshire Hathaway
 Owner's Manual
 The offices of America's second-richest man are at the corner of 36th and Farnam Streets, overlooking this city where he was born and educated and where he married, raised his children, mourned his wife's recent death and still resides.
 In the building's basement, Stan Docekal has cut Mr. Buffett's hair for about 13 years, usually on Saturday mornings. The barber says he likes to give him the space he needs to relax, read his mail and avoid the telephone. 
 Upstairs, on the 14th floor, a hallway in Berkshire's modest headquarters is adorned with wildlife photographs taken by Mr. Buffett's son Howard. Trinkets from Berkshire companies and investments fill a glass case in a small, quiet waiting room: a toy dog with a copy of The Buffalo News in its jaws; two dolls dressed in Victorian clothing and holding See's candies; toy race cars stamped with the logos of Geico Insurance and Fruit-of-the-Loom; a small bottle of Coca-Cola; a Wells Fargo stagecoach. One shelf displays a red and white University of Nebraska football helmet, signed by the players. A little plaque on another shelf advises that, ''A fool and his money are soon invited everywhere.''
 THE walls in and around Mr. Buffett's office are crowded with photographs of baseball players. In one picture, the Hall of Fame flamethrower Bob Gibson pitches a puffball to an eager Mr. Buffett. Next to a picture of Ted Williams is a chart outlining the slugger's favorite batting zones; like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Williams prided himself on waiting for the perfect pitch. A photograph of Mr. Buffett's father, Howard, a onetime stockbroker and four-term Republican congressman, dominates a wall behind his desk. 
 Scattered in humbly appointed offices elsewhere on the floor, a staff of 17 people makes up the nerve center of a corporation that employs about 130,000 people and last year earned $7.3 billion on revenue of $74.3 billion. In a bright and airy corner office a few hallways from Mr. Buffett's office, his daughter Susan oversees a charitable foundation that donates generously to public school programs, a cause the Buffett family has supported for generations. 
 ''Mr. Buffett has not forgotten his roots and his public school background,'' said John Mackiel, superintendent of Omaha's public school system. ''The essence of profound insight is simplicity and Mr. Buffett has a simple, down-to-earth style that endears him to everyone in Omaha. He treats everyone here in a friendly, courteous manner.''
 Like anyone here who follows the news, Mr. Mackiel is aware of the insurance investigations that have recently washed upon Berkshire's shores. ''Everyone in Omaha is paying a lot of attention to these events,'' he said. ''I believe that Mr. Buffett has been confronted with a challenge and he has risen to that challenge.''
 Regulators and law enforcement officials in the United States and overseas are investigating how complex products known as finite reinsurance have been used to fortify anemic financial statements or to mask problems at struggling companies. Insurers typically buy reinsurance to protect themselves from outsized losses, and a Berkshire unit, the General Re Corporation, is a major reinsurer that figures prominently in investigations here and abroad. 
 General Re sold products to the American International Group in deals that investigators said allowed A.I.G. to enhance its financial statements. The deals led to the ouster of A.I.G's strong-willed chairman, Maurice R. Greenberg, and have brought Mr. Buffett into the glare of the investigative spotlight.
 But according to several insurance industry executives, a memo and an e-mail message indicating that Mr. Buffett had extensive prior knowledge of the A.I.G. transactions were produced by Ronald E. Ferguson, a former General Re chief executive who had an incentive to mischaracterize the extent of Mr. Buffett's involvement in the deals. A person with direct knowledge of the communications between Mr. Buffett and Mr. Ferguson said that no such e-mail was ever sent to Mr. Buffett and that Mr. Buffett never passed judgment on the deal's propriety.
 Mr. Ferguson, these executives say, was responsible for initiating the transactions with Mr. Greenberg. Other General Re executives who worked for him in Dublin doctored paperwork for the deals, according to investigators and insurance executives. But investigators say the motives for doing so remain unclear. A regulator suggested that the reason may have been to make the transaction appear to comply with accounting standards. Mr. Ferguson could not be reached for comment.
 A person with direct knowledge of Berkshire's dealings with the authorities disputed a news account on Friday that said Mr. Buffett authorized the disclosure of information that implicated Mr. Greenberg in wrongdoing. Those sorts of decisions, the person said, were up to Berkshire lawyers, not to Mr. Buffett. 
 While Mr. Buffett has not been accused of any malfeasance, his well-known preference for hiring managers he believes in, and for giving them broad autonomy to make their own operating decisions, appears to have backfired in this case.
 Mr. Buffett has also been slow to scour General Re's ranks since problems at the unit surfaced publicly three years ago. That is a contrast with the forceful way Mr. Buffett has dealt with scandal in the past. In 1991, he was named interim chairman of Salomon Brothers, a major Wall Street investment bank, in the wake of a Treasury trading scandal, and he wasted little time showing troublemakers to the door. 
 Then again, Mr. Buffett was an outsider coming into Salomon Brothers; General Re is a company he acquired, with a management team that is part of the Berkshire empire. 
 Although Mr. Buffett is best known for multibillion-dollar returns on investments in Coca-Cola, The Washington Post, Gillette and other concerns, Berkshire is a holding company that includes major insurers like Geico, National Indemnity and, of course, General Re.
 General Re, however, has long been a thorn in Mr. Buffett's side. Since Berkshire acquired it in late 1998, the company has experienced financial and regulatory problems. Mr. Ferguson stepped down as chief executive almost three years to the day after Berkshire bought the company -- a very short tenure for a Berkshire manager. 
 ON Jan. 6, the same day that Mr. Spitzer's office issued a subpoena to Berkshire and General Re as part of the investigation into insurance improprieties, Mr. Buffett sent a memo to all of his managers and to his board.
 ''The current investigation of the insurance industry underscores the importance of the message that I regularly send to you in my (more or less) biannual memo: Berkshire can afford to lose money, even lots of money; it can't afford to lose reputation, even a shred of reputation,'' Mr. Buffett wrote. ''You and I are the guardians of that reputation. And in the long run we will have whatever reputation we deserve.
 ''There is plenty of money to be made in the center of the court. There is no need to play around the edges,'' Mr. Buffett added. ''I trust you to make these calls yourself. But if at any time you want to check your thinking against mine, just pick up the phone.''
 ''A small chance of distress or disgrace cannot, in our view, be offset by a large chance of extra returns.''
 Warren E. Buffett, 1989
 The Nebraska Furniture Mart, a Berkshire company that is a mainstay of the Omaha economy, sells a cushy, reliable mattress and box-spring set known as ''the Warren.'' It is displayed in the middle of one of the store's warehouse-sized showrooms. A poster on a nearby wall shows Mr. Buffett lounging across his eponymous mattress in a suitcoat and tie, beaming at the camera.
 ''It's the epitome of brand marketing to have 100 percent credibility and that's what you get when you have Warren's name on it,'' said Robert Batt, Furniture Mart's executive vice president. ''Our customers say that if his name is on it then it must be great. Like him, it's made in Omaha.
 ''Warren always says it takes 60 years to make a great reputation and you can lose it in 60 seconds,'' Mr. Batt added. ''We live by that saying, and you know what? So does he. People here give no credence to any of these investigations.''
 Mr. Batt is hardly alone in rushing to Mr. Buffett's defense as the investor's legacy comes into play. In Nebraska's halls of academe, Mr. Buffett's name is legend, and local professors say it will remain that way. ''Everybody's watching this investigation because we're all so in awe of Warren -- not because of his money but because of his value system,'' said Fred Luthans, a business professor at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln, where Mr. Buffett was an undergraduate. ''Based on 38 years of being a management professor and following him through the years, I have no doubt about his integrity.''
 Professor Luthans and Bruce Avolio, the director of the Gallup Leadership Institute in Omaha, have written an upcoming book, ''The High-Impact Leader,'' that outlines the qualities that make for top-drawer corporate leadership. Both men said that they intentionally avoided naming specific chief executives as role models because many leaders come in and out of vogue. Mr. Buffett is the one exception to their rule, and they single him out in their book because of his ''authenticity.'' 
 ''What we think is important about his character is that he's from the heart of the heartland on the Great Plains,'' Professor Luthans said. ''He is a plain-spoken but genuine person, completely aware of himself and grounded in a core value system of ethics.''
 Another Buffett constituency remains unwavering in its support: the investors. John Cleary, an 81-year-old Omaha resident who once worked for Mr. Buffett's father in Washington, is a member of the lucky circle of people who turned their funds over to Mr. Buffett when he began managing money in 1956.
 The rule of thumb is that $10,000 invested with Mr. Buffett in 1956 would be worth a staggering $350 million today. Mr. Cleary, a retired lawyer, declined to say how much money he has made with Mr. Buffett, other than that he has enjoyed an ''astronomical'' return. ''His mother and father were just the best there was and his integrity was at the highest level,'' he said of Mr. Buffett. ''I have never doubted that Warren has lived his life in exactly the same way as his parents. These investigations don't matter at all to anyone here.''
 Mr. Buffett has had local doubters, however. During the technology boom and the Internet bubble of the 1990's, critics called his investing acumen into question. Mr. Buffett famously avoided buying technology stocks, other than Microsoft, because he said he didn't know how to value them properly or how to select which company would emerge as a leader from yet another epochal change in the American economy.
 Some investors in Omaha and elsewhere labeled him a dinosaur who was out of touch with changing times. Then the stock market bubble burst. Mr. Buffett's disciplined approach to investing in undervalued stocks with clear market advantages and superior management was reaffirmed. 
 Those who work for Mr. Buffett said that the insurance investigations represented a similar tempest passing across the Berkshire landscape. The inquiries and the negative press surrounding them will eventually blow past Mr. Buffett, they said, possibly implicating others but leaving his reputation intact. 
 ''The fact of the matter is that the Berkshire name puts enormous trustworthiness and clout behind you,'' said Susan M. Jacques, chief executive of Borsheim's, a local jeweler that is a Berkshire company and is a popular stop for shareholders at the annual meetings. ''You can't ask for anyone with more honesty and integrity. Warren has walked the talk for 74 years.''
 OF course, Mr. Buffett, like anyone, has flaws. Some people close to him say he can be so single-minded that he is hesitant to take counsel from a broader group of advisers. He has no public relations staff to help him manage his response to the insurance inquiries, and he is relying on Mr. Munger's law firm for all of his legal advice. Some people close to him say that these decisions may limit his dexterity as the investigations unfold.
 Few doubt the sharpness of his mind. His bridge partner, Bill Gates, certainly doesn't. Mr. Buffett has forged a close friendship with Mr. Gates, the Microsoft chairman and the only person richer than him in the United States. Mr. Gates, who is 25 years Mr. Buffett's junior, joined Berkshire's board in December. 
 Yet Mr. Buffett can sometimes come across as an absent-minded professor. Several months ago, for example, he and Mr. Gates dined together at Gorat's, a local restaurant that serves Mr. Buffett's favorite steaks. When the two men went to the parking lot to get into Mr. Buffett's new car, Mr. Buffett couldn't negotiate its elaborate security system, leaving the two billionaires stranded in the lot. Mr. Buffett had to call a cab to take Mr. Gates to the airport. 
 Friends and neighbors in Omaha say that they find Mr. Buffett's quirks endearing -- and that none of the issues that have surfaced in the investigation will have any bearing on his reputation for integrity. They say they are confident that Mr. Buffett will present his argument forcefully and clearly to regulators and law enforcement officials when he meets with them, and that he doesn't really need anyone in Omaha storming the barricades on his behalf.
 ''We have Sarbanes-Oxley because too many people in corporate America have run amok, but that's not Warren,'' said Mr. Batt of the Furniture Mart. ''He stands as a giant in corporate America. He doesn't need anyone to defend him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''You can't ask for anyone with more honesty and integrity'' than Warren Buffett, said Susan M. Jacques, the chief executive of Borsheim's, a jewelry store in Omaha that is owned by Berkshire Hathaway.
 Robert Batt of Nebraska Furniture Mart, a Berkshire-owned retailer. It sells a mattress and box-spring set that is known as ''the Warren.'' (Photographs by Dave Weaver for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Owen Smith)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); INSURANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); WITNESSES (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (72%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); BIHAR, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005



212 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today and an auction of four-week bills and a five-year note on Wednesday.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 2.77 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 3.12 percent, and on the four-week issue was 2.59 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TODAY
 Prior Lake/Savage Area Schools Independent School District No. 719, Prior Lake Minn., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TOMORROW
 Marin Community College District, Kentfield, Calif., $75 million of debt securities. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 Fayette County, Ky., School District Financial Corp., $52.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Las Vegas, $304 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Port Authority New York and New Jersey, $200 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 Virginia Public School Authority, $142.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Louisville/Jefferson County, Ky., $68.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Austin, Tex., Independent School District, $55 million of tax refunding bonds for Travis County. Lehman Brothers.
 City of New York, $650 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 City School District of Niagara Falls, N.Y., $74.4 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.
 Dallas, $150 million of general obligation bonds. Bear Stearns.
 Energy Acquisition Corporation II, $246.6 million of debt securities. Seasongood & Mayer.
 Fort Bend, Tex., Independent School District, $69 million of refunding bonds. UBS.
 Hillsborough County, Fla., Aviation Authority, $126.7 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Humble, Tex., Independent School District, $76 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Indiana Health Facility Financing Authority, $152.2 million of hospital revenue bonds for Community Hospitals of Indiana. Banc of America Securities.
 Missouri Housing Development Commission, $75 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds for Homeownership Loan Program. George K. Baum.
 Omaha Public Power District, $128 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Rhode Island, $78 million of general obligation bonds. UBS.
 Riverside County, Calif., $70 million of certificates of participation. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of California, $174 million of veterans general obligation bonds. Bear Stearns.
 State of Public Works Board of California, $130 million of debt securities for the Regents of the University of California. Merrill Lynch.
 The Regents of the University of Colorado University Enterprise, $323.9 million of refunding and improvement revenue bonds. Stifel Nicolaus.
 The Turnpike Authority of Kentucky Economic Development Road, $246.8 million of revenue and road revenue refunding bonds for the Revitalization Projects. Morgan Stanley. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); DEBT NOTES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); HOSPITALS (62%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); SEASONGOOD & MAYER (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); OMAHA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



213 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Crouching Tiger, Swimming Dragon

BYLINE: By Nayan Chanda. 
Nayan Chanda, a former editor of the Far Eastern Economic Review, is the editor of YaleGlobal Online.

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
FIVE hundred and ninety years after a Chinese fleet cast anchor at Hormuz, the Chinese are back in the Arabian Sea. When Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China visited Pakistan last week, one of the many deals he signed was for the deepening of the port at Gwadar, whose Chinese-built facilities symbolize China's return to an area that was, briefly, a playground for its navy. 
 The port's just completed first phase -- three berths that can accommodate very large ships -- is relatively insignificant. But its projected size and strategic location have sent ripples of anxiety through Washington, Tokyo and New Delhi about the potential establishment of a permanent Chinese naval presence near the Strait of Hormuz, through which 40 percent of the world's oil passes. 
 For the sake of regional stability, Beijing should forgo any ambitions to use Gwadar for its naval vessels. Yet China has valid reasons to help develop a commercial port that other powers must accept. Its return to the Indian Ocean is the logical outcome of its blazing economic growth, which the West has encouraged, applauded and profited from. A China that depends increasingly on imported oil transported great distances can justifiably seek commercial refueling and repair facilities, just as European powers dependent on far-flung coaling stations for their ships did in the 19th century. 
 For a brief time in the 15th century, China had the means, but no deep-rooted rationale, for overseas expansion. The Middle Kingdom's maritime glory can be traced to the personal enthusiasm of a single ruler, the Ming emperor Yongle, who dispatched 63 vessels to the Indian Ocean in seven waves. China's first and thus far only blue-water navy consisted of multimasted ships weighing 1,500 tons -- Vasco da Gama's weighed only 300 tons -- and carried 27,500 men up to the Persian Gulf and Africa's eastern shore. 
 Aside from battling pirates and pretenders to the throne, the fleet served primarily as a propaganda vehicle for the emperor. Chinese sailors dazzled Asian states with their technological and military prowess, transported barbarian envoys willing to pay tribute to the Son of Heaven, and brought home exotic products, from aphrodisiac rhinoceros horns to live giraffes. But the expeditions ended as suddenly as they had begun. By the time the Portuguese Navy appeared in the Indian Ocean in 1497, the Chinese had already gone home.
 This time, China's thirst for energy is dictating its turn to the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf. Since 1993 China has been a net oil importer; as its need has grown to 40 percent of total consumption, so has its dependence on oil from the Middle East. Eighty percent of China's oil imports pass through the Malacca Straits, the closing of which would wreak havoc upon the Chinese economy. To reduce this dependence, China has been working to build alternative supply routes through Myanmar to the south and Pakistan to the west. A road, and eventually a pipeline, from Gwadar could give China an alternative energy route that it urgently needs and spur the development of its westernmost provinces. Hence its plan to provide more than a billion dollars in aid and loan guarantees for building at Gwadar.
 China's search for energy security also dovetails, however, with its long-term strategic effort to expand its regional influence and box in India. Analysts see Chinese-operated listening posts in Myanmar's Coco Islands, China's support for a port near Yangon for handling 10,000-ton ships (of which the Burmese have only a few) and another deep-water port at Kyaukpyu in western Myanmar, Chinese aid to the Bangladeshi port of Chittagong and plans to improve Cambodia's Sihanoukville as part of an incremental effort to build a ''string of pearls'' presence on the Indian Ocean rim. 
 Many believe it is only a matter of time before the Chinese Navy, much strengthened by recent purchases of ships and technology, arrives in Gwadar. Pakistani officials boast that Gwadar's Chinese connection will help to frustrate India's domination of regional waterways. A Chinese maritime presence in the area would enable the mainland to monitor naval patrols by the United States and protect Chinese sea lines of communication. China Economic Net, an online news outlet sponsored by China's leading business paper, calls Gwadar ''China's biggest harvest.''
 The fact remains, however, that with the exception of the Chinese ''fishing trawlers'' occasionally found mapping the ocean floor (information needed by submarines), the Chinese Navy has yet to show up. So for now, instead of raining on China's parade at Gwadar, India and the United States should welcome China's contribution to expanded maritime commerce and the additional sense of security that Beijing might derive from it. The port at Gwadar will be a boon to the regional economy; and to deny China's need for a secure oil supply while pumping billions of dollars into China to produce more gas-guzzling cars is both illogical and, in an indirect but palpable way, hostile. China should be left in no doubt, however, that using the Gwadar port for its military would increase tensions and weaken the energy security that it ostensibly seeks. Checking its frigates and submarines at the door would be a good way for China to ensure that others are also able to enjoy the party.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); NAVIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); PAKISTAN (93%); GULF STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Gwadar (Pakistan); China

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



214 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Catholics in New York

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
When Pope John Paul II was named leader of the Roman Catholic world on Oct. 16, 1978, the church in New York was one of the few local institutions whose prospects were, if not great, something better than grim.
 Enrollment in parochial schools, while it had declined considerably since the mid-1960's, was relatively stable. 
And Catholic life in the city, here and there, was still quite vibrant. The seminaries, if approaching a crisis, were still producing priests, and in many parts of a city otherwise mired in crime, filth and economic decline, the parish was still the neighborhood.
 Now 9,674 days later, with the John Paul II era drawn to a close, much has changed. New York has recovered much of its swagger, if in a somewhat sanitized way. But locally, the Catholic Church, by most statistical measures, is struggling mightily. Dioceses in New York and New Jersey are closing elementary schools and planning to consolidate parishes; the ranks of priests are dwindling; finances are increasingly dire; and the sexual abuse scandal has left a lingering scar on the churchs public image.
 With reliable numbers hard to come by, whether the total ranks of Catholics in the region are growing or shrinking is unclear. Here is an admittedly scattershot statistical look at the changing state of the Roman Catholic Church in and around New York City, from the late 1970's to the dawn of a new pontificate. ANDY NEWMAN


CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday with statistics on Roman Catholics in 10 dioceses in the New York region misstated the number of students in Catholic schools in 1977 and 2004 and misstated the percentage change. Corrected figures appear below.

ALL 10 DIOCESES
1977 -- 594,228
2004 -- 390,369
-34%

N.Y.

New York
1977 -- 147,992
2004 -- 112,177
-24%

Brooklyn
1977 -- 131,712
2004 -- 65,284
-50%

Rockville Centre
1977 -- 54,022
2004 -- 32,742
-39%

Albany
1977 -- 25,605
2004 -- 10,764
-58%

N.J.

Newark
1977 -- 94,016
2004 -- 51,216
-46%

Trenton, Metuchen*
1977 -- 59,112
2004 -- 52,302
-12%

Paterson
1977 -- 24,660
2004 -- 19.963
-19%

CONN.

Bridgeport
1977 -- 20,400
2004 -- 13,092
-36%

Hartford
1977 -- 36,709
2004 -- 32,829
-11%

*Trenton and Metuchen Dioceses are combined.

GRAPHIC: Chart:Diocese -- All 10 area diocesesActive parish priests1977 -- 4,4502004 -- 2,671-40%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 6562004 -- 1,093+67%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 42004 -- 106Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 1,497,6882004 -- 1,203,092-20%Diocese -- New YorkActive parish priests1977 -- 8982004 -- 522-42%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 1662004 -- 140-16%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 12Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 313,9092004 -- 276,091-12%Diocese -- BrooklynActive parish priests1977 -- 7502004 -- 365-51%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 1392004 -- 189+36%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 12Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 208,6552004 -- 133,394-36%Diocese -- Rockville CentreActive parish priests1977 -- 3862004 -- 256-34%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 862004 -- 139+62%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 0Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 196,8882004 -- 166,600-15%Diocese -- AlbanyActive parish priests1977 -- 3512004 -- 156-56%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 682004 -- 72+6%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 32004 -- 21Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 86,6982004 -- 55,639-36%Diocese -- NewarkActive parish priests1977 -- 7052004 -- 489-31%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 862004 -- 196+128%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 17Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 200,4842004 -- 123,344Diocese -- Trenton & MetuchenActive parish priests1977 -- 3662004 -- 311-15%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 452004 -- 109+142%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 6Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 224,1562004 -- 102,593-54%Diocese -- PatersonActive parish priests1977 -- 2742004 -- 152-45%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 22004 -- 75+3,650%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 5Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 60,7572004 -- 68,911+13%Diocese -- BridgeportActive parish priests1977 -- 1882004 -- 181-4%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 192004 -- 73+284%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 12004 -- 0Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 62,9812004 -- 60,029-5%Diocese -- HartfordActive parish priests1977 -- 5322004 -- 239-55%Retired, sick or absent priests1977 -- 452004 -- 100+122%Parishes without resident priest1977 -- 02004 -- 21Students in Catholic schools1977 -- 143,1602004 -- 94,928-34%By the numbersAverage age of priests in Brooklyn Diocese1978 -- 522005 -- 63Languages in which Mass is said in the New York Archdiocese1978 -- 192005 -- 35Average elementary school tuition in Brooklyn Diocese1978-79 -- $1,081 (In 2004 dollars)2004-05 -- $2,985Median elementary teacher salary, New York Archdiocese1979-80 -- $24,718 (In 2004 dollars)2004-05 -- $39,000Median elementary teacher salary, New York City public schools1976-77 -- $63,741 (In 2004 dollars)2002-03 -- $55,672 (In 2004 dollars)Non-Catholic students in New York Archdiocese elementary schools1979 -- 9%2004 -- 22%Catholic marriages in the New York Archdiocese1978 -- 10,6952004 -- 6,119Annulments in the New York Archdiocese1978 -- 6702004 -- 366Infant baptisms in the 10 area dioceses1977 -- 145,8932004 -- 133,099Converts in the 10 area dioceses1977 -- 4,5822004 -- 5,671Seminarians in the 10 area dioceses1977 -- 2,0722004 -- 533*Data for the Trenton and Metuchen Dioceses are combined. Metuchen was part of the Trenton Diocese until 1981.(Sources by Official Catholic Directory
Glenmary Research Center
Diocese of Brooklyn
 New York Archdiocese)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CITIES (71%); SCANDALS (67%); SEX SCANDALS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



215 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2671 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Business in New York, Once Prized, Braces for a Crisis

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Two years ago, St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains was failing financially, so politicians and Roman Catholic leaders pressured Westchester Medical Center to take it over. That rescue was the old way of handling a hospital crisis in New York State.
 A few months later, Westchester Medical Center, choking on its own losses, concluded that St. Agnes was beyond hope and shut it down. That decision represents the new way of looking at hospitals in the state, and it now appears to be a precursor to a vast change in one of New York's most important industries.
 The hospital business in New York, one of the largest and most prized sectors of the region's economy, is deep in financial trouble, which is forcing it into a sharp, swift contraction. Across the city and state, public and industry officials agree, hospital doors are likely to begin swinging shut over the next year, and thousands of jobs could be lost. 
 Twelve New York hospitals have closed in the last 27 months, and others have shut wings, wards and clinics. The industry as a whole has lost money five years in a row in New York, while turning a profit nationally each year. Even some of New York's biggest, most sophisticated teaching hospitals, like Mount Sinai and St. Vincent's in Manhattan, have been hemorrhaging money. Just last week, county officials scrambled to assemble a cash infusion for Westchester Medical Center.
 Though it has lost 20,000 beds in the last 15 years, New York still has almost 20,000 more hospital beds than it needs, according to Dennis P. Whalen, the state's executive deputy health commissioner -- nearly one-third of the current total, equivalent to dozens of hospitals and tens of thousands of jobs. Hospital officials call that figure exaggerated, but they concede that whatever the true number, it points toward a wave of closings still to come.
 At the moment, it is too early to say which hospitals are likely to go under. But there is widespread agreement in government and the industry that those most likely to close are smaller, financially weak institutions with other hospitals nearby. Frequently mentioned names in New York City include Cabrini Medical Center in the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan; North General Hospital in Harlem; and St. Mary's Hospital in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Hospitals that duplicate one another's services in smaller cities upstate are also vulnerable.
 The consensus view is that some hospitals will be spared, no matter how poorly they fare financially. They include those that are far from other hospitals, are closely tied to medical schools, have very busy emergency rooms, or are rated as Level 1 trauma centers, those that can handle the most serious cases. Most of the city's public hospitals will probably remain open, but some smaller ones, like North Central Bronx Hospital, have a questionable future.
 Many of those excess hospital rooms were built by politicians and religious institutions, and any attempt to close hospitals was met by fierce resistance in Albany and in union halls. But in the last few months, Gov. George E. Pataki and other elected officials, along with hospital industry and labor leaders, have said that more hospitals must close so that the survivors can thrive. Such talk is a startling turnabout in politics and tone, but it merely acknowledges what is already happening.
 In part, the crisis was the inevitable result of having too many hospitals in New York. But the road to closings was also paved by several economic and political factors: longstanding state laws that set New York starkly apart from the rest of the country, sharp changes in federal aid policies that hit New York's hospitals hard, and market forces and health trends that have been tougher on New York than the rest of the country. And in many cases, the hospitals contributed to the problem, having been unable to respond effectively to those changes, whether through mismanagement or simply because of the overwhelming size of the task.

Too Many Beds
 New York City's hospital building boom began in the 19th century, rooted in the city's traditions of serving the poor and welcoming immigrants. It was an era when people who could not pay generally had to go without medical care, and generations of city officials made a commitment to public health care through a sprawling network of municipal hospitals and clinics far bigger than any other in the country. 
 Religious groups also contributed to the century-long boom, as did the city's unusually heavy concentration of medical schools, and philanthropists whose names turned up on buildings. Hospitals became a favored source of political power, jobs and prestige.
 As a result, while Los Angeles County, with more people than New York City, has four county hospitals and no city hospitals, there are 11 city hospitals in New York. On the state level, New York has 20 percent more hospital beds per person than the national average.
 The attachment to hospitals prevailed long after studies made it clear that New York City had more capacity than it needed. When Mayors Edward I. Koch and Rudolph W. Giuliani proposed closing city hospitals, they were met with protests, and while Mr. Koch succeeded in closing Sydenham Hospital in Harlem in 1980, the other city institutions remain.
 For years, the industry and the hospital workers' union, 1199/S.E.I.U., led by Dennis Rivera, insisted that each hospital should be saved.
 ''In the old days, Dennis and I were the biggest impediment to closing hospitals,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''We would get communities riled up, we would get politicians together, to save this, save that.''
 And now, he said, they find themselves supporting some hospital shutdowns. ''Well,'' he explained, ''hospitals are closing anyway, and we're getting crushed.''
 New York has also used hospitals more intensively than elsewhere. In most urban and suburban areas, patients go for outpatient care to big doctors' offices that house general practitioners and often a range of specialists, offering a kind of low-cost, one-stop medical shopping. But by the time that trend arose, New York City already had its own tradition of outpatient care provided in hospitals, often in emergency rooms, where care is most expensive.

The Price of Regulation
 Having encouraged the construction of all those hospitals, New York took unusual steps to keep them under its thumb. From 1983 to 1996, New York was one of a handful of states that dictated the prices hospitals charged for everything from appendectomies to chemotherapy, a system put in place after several hospitals suffered financial difficulties beginning in the 1970's. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's administration and the Legislature struck a bargain with the hospital industry: the rates the state set would cover the hospitals' costs, but they would have very slim profit margins and would not be allowed to accumulate big cash cushions.
 ''It was exactly backwards,'' said Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group, and a persistent critic of both the hospitals and the state. ''If a hospital managed itself well and generated a surplus, then that hospital was punished with lower rates, whereas if a hospital was inefficient, they found ways to give it more money and cover its costs.''
 New York still is one of the few states that make it very difficult to open a profit-making hospital, and it prohibits investor-owned hospitals and multistate chains. In other parts of the country, many hospitals can pay for new wings or equipment with cash reserves or stock sales, while in New York, hospitals must borrow to raise capital.
 Those restrictions have helped force New York's hospitals into becoming the most deeply indebted in the country, with $15 billion in outstanding long-term debts.
 After Mr. Pataki defeated Mr. Cuomo, he set out to let market forces, not officials in Albany, mold the industry. Beginning in 1997, he did away with the price-setting law, insisting that hospitals should negotiate prices competitively with the insurers who paid the bills, a practice that he said would force hospitals to become more efficient.
 The shift to the new system, however, coincided with the rapid rise in managed care that squeezed hospitals nationally. Hospitals around the country had decades to learn about tough bargaining with insurance companies, but New York's hospitals, cash-poor and deeply in debt, had to learn all at once, at a moment when insurers were gaining in power.
 ''The hospitals were poorly prepared for those negotiations, and their margins were so thin, they were in no position to tell the insurers to take a hike and take their business down the street,'' said James R. Tallon Jr., the president of the United Hospital Fund, a Manhattan-based study group, and a former majority leader of the State Assembly.
 Mr. Raske, the hospital association president, put it more bluntly: ''These H.M.O.'s have eaten the hospitals' lunch. They've made obscene profits by strip-mining communities.''

A Push to Expand
 The start of competition in the late 1990's touched off what state officials call a ''medical arms race'' in New York, with hospitals rushing to enter high-profile, lucrative businesses, opening cardiac catheterization laboratories, cancer centers and cardiac and orthopedic surgery centers. The result was often saturation of the market, turning expensive new projects into money-losers.
 Hospital officials and industry analysts say the state is partly to blame, having fueled the arms race by approving too many expansion projects, some of which are still going on. Unlike most states, New York requires hospitals to get permission before making large capital investments, a provision originally intended to control excessive expansion. But critics note that under Mr. Pataki, the state has allowed the proliferation of ambulatory surgery centers that have taken some of the hospitals' most lucrative business, and has largely set aside its use of planning councils to determine what was needed from hospitals in each region. 
 More recently, the governor has tried to regain some of those functions. He appointed a commission last year to look at the health care industry and consider changes to it, and he and legislators have embraced the commission's idea of another panel to recommend hospital closings. But many lawmakers consider the effort too little, too late.
 ''There's been a lack of guidance or strategic thinking about what the industry should look like,'' said Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat and chairman of the Assembly's Health Committee. ''The problem with that is, if market forces force a hospital to close, it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with whether or not the hospital was needed by that community.''
 The patterns of diseases have also contributed to hospital woes. In the early and mid-1990's, AIDS, hepatitis C and drug-resistant tuberculosis were growing threats that generated a lot of business for hospitals. At one time, 3,000 H.I.V. patients were in New York hospitals on any given night.
 But by the end of the decade, advances in treatment meant those diseases were far less likely to lead to hospitalization. The city's hospitals, having been hit especially hard by all three ailments, have been hurt the most by the loss of those patients.
 Even before those treatments came along, the number of patients in New York hospitals had been dropping anyway, as other outpatient treatments advanced and health maintenance organizations pressured hospitals to shorten stays.
 Though it was clear in the mid-1990's that the hospital industry would have to shrink, it did not shrink enough, or in the ways needed, to stave off the current crisis. The number of hospital beds has declined statewide to 62,800 today from 71,900 in 1990, according to the state. Hospital groups say the real decline may be even greater.
 But many hospitals have added so many new services and outpatient clinics that the overall size of their operations has not changed. The number of people employed by hospitals in New York City was about the same in 2002 as in 1998; statewide, it rose slightly. The state law that forced hospitals to negotiate rates with insurers, which took effect in 1997, provided millions of dollars to retrain workers hit by anticipated layoffs, but most of that money was never spent.

Management Problems
 The problems of New York hospitals since deregulation points toward an obvious question: If hospitals have had eight years to downsize and mold themselves to new challenges, why have so many failed to do so?
 Nearly everyone agrees that mismanagement is a large part of the answer, but there is stark disagreement on the extent of the problem.
 ''There are some hospitals that have management and accounting systems that let them know what was going wrong, and what needed changing,'' said State Senator Kemp Hannon of Nassau County, a Republican and the chairman of the Senate's Health Committee. ''And there are other hospitals that just plain have no idea.''
 That knowledge gap, Mr. Hannon said, is a remnant from the more heavily regulated days, when hospitals' costs were covered by the state, whether they had a clear notion of those costs or not. Too many hospitals are focused on fighting H.M.O.'s and getting more government money, he said, rather than asking themselves how they could be managed better.
 Mr. Raske of the hospital association insisted that most hospitals were well run, noting that the ones Mr. Hannon deals with were those deepest in trouble, looking for a state bailout. Hospitals have inadequate billing and management systems, Mr. Raske said, because they have been too poor to invest in needed technology.
 State and hospital officials now say that the way they thought about downsizing in the 90's was misguided. ''You could go to any hospital and say, 'Take excess beds here, take excess beds there,' and that doesn't gain you much,'' Mr. Whalen said. Such trimming does nothing to lower ''fixed costs'' like real estate, heating, air-conditioning and computers.
 Closing a single, 300-bed hospital could potentially save much more money than taking 30 beds from each of 10 hospitals. ''There were people saying that 10 years ago, but no one wanted to accept it,'' Mr. Hannon said.
 The shift to outpatient clinics in the 1990's was seen as the wave of the future, a way of attracting patients to more welcoming, less expensive settings. But while some hospitals, like Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, had great success with their clinics, others, like Mount Sinai, lost money on them and closed them. Not surprisingly, opinions differ widely as to how much of that difference is due to the quality of management, and how much to local competition, geography, and even luck.
 Several health care consulting firms have concluded that hospitals in New York rate poorly in efficiency and management. One leading consulting firm, Solucient, found that in 2003, the average expense of caring for a patient in a New York hospital was 9.6 percent higher than the national average, even after adjusting for the type of case and regional differences in labor costs. In 2002, it found, the administrative cost per case was 13.1 percent higher in New York.
 In study after study, the biggest difference between New York and the rest of the country is in length of stay, widely considered a measure of the quality of both care and management. Patients spend about 37 percent longer in the hospital in New York than nationally for similar cases, Solucient found, which contributes greatly to higher costs.
 ''These are valid criticisms, but New York is improving significantly,'' said Mr. Tallon, of the United Hospital Fund. ''We're moving toward the national numbers, even if not as fast as we would like.''

Life Support
 Articles in this series will look at the financial crisis facing public and private hospitals in New York State.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Monday about the financial crisis facing New York State's hospitals referred incorrectly at one point to the number of beds that they have lost in the last 15 years. As noted elsewhere in the article, they have lost 9,100 beds, not 20,000. The article also referred imprecisely to Mount Sinai Hospital's outpatient clinics. It has closed some of them, not all. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three hospitals considered possible candidates for closing, from left: Cabrini Medical Center near Gramercy Park in Manhattan
St. Mary's Hospital in Crown Heights, Brooklyn
and North General Hospital in Harlem. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
(Photo by Rebecca Letz for The New York Times)
(Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
When Mayor Edward I. Koch closed the tiny, costly Sydenham Hospital in Harlem in 1980, hundreds protested. There were sit-ins and clashes with the police. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''An Industry in Crisis''Many factors have contributed to financial troubles for hospitals in New York State. Several hospitals are likely to close their doors in the next year, officials say.Legal restrictions discourage profit-making hospitals in New York, and prevent nonprofits from building cash cushions.Commercial hospitalsAs percentage of all hospitals, 2003.U.S.: 16%N.Y.: 1%DebtPer bed, median hospital, 2002U.S.: $181,012N.Y.: $239,323An overabundance of beds and long patient stays might indicate management inefficiencies.Hospital bedsFor every 1,000 people, 2003U.S.: 2.8N.Y.: 3.4Length of stayIn days, average length of patient stay, median hospital, 2002.U.S.: 3.1N.Y.: 4.2In financial health, the state's hospitals have ranked 48th in the nation, or lower.Operating marginPercentage of income left after expenses.Graph tracks percent of income left after expenses in the U.S. and N.Y. since 1997.Meanwhile, insurance companies have benefited from negotioations with New York hospitals. The state has been the first or second most profitable in the nation for insurers in recent years.Health insurance profitsGraph tracks health insurance profits for insurers for the U.S. and N.Y. since 2001.(Sources by Kaiser Family Foundation
American Hospital Association
Greater New York Hospital Association
 Solucient [using Medicare data])(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (94%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAUMA CENTERS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); RELIGION (73%); COUNTIES (68%) Medicine and Health; Surveys and Series; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena; Dennis P Whalen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



216 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: Sharing the Wealth at I.B.M.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. is renowned for its rich storehouse of patented inventions. It once again led the research sweepstakes in America last year, collecting 3,248 patents, more than any other company. And it earned more than $1 billion last year from licensing and selling its ideas.
 So why has I.B.M. shifted course recently, giving away some of the fruits of its research instead of charging others to use it? The answer is self-interest.
 Diverging from conventional wisdom, the company has calculated that sharing technology can sometimes be more profitable than jealously guarding its property rights on patents, copyrights and trade secrets. The moves by I.B.M., the world's largest supplier of information technology services and computers, are being closely watched throughout the business world. 
 Earlier this year, I.B.M. made a broad gesture toward what it called a new era in how it controls intellectual property. It announced in January that it would make 500 patents -- mainly for software code that manages electronic commerce, storage, image processing, data handling and Internet communications -- freely available to others. 
 And it pledged that more such moves would follow.
 This month, the company said that all of its future patent contributions to the largest standards group for electronic commerce on the Web, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards, would be free.
 I.B.M. is at the forefront, but companies in industry after industry are also reconsidering their strategies on intellectual property: What do you share? What do you keep proprietary?
 The Internet, globalization and cost pressures are driving businesses to collaborate in the pursuit of higher productivity and profits, and to accelerate the pace of product development. That collaboration requires companies to share more technical information with corporate customers, suppliers and industry partners. The result, specialists say, is that the terms of trade in intellectual property, and the boundary lines, are shifting. 
 ''The business world today is engaged in a huge experiment in figuring out what different parts of intellectual property should be open and closed,'' said Steven Weber, director of the Institute of International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The fate of many companies, and the strength of national economies, will depend on how the experiment turns out.''
 The change at I.B.M. began last May when Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, told John E. Kelly, a senior vice president, to lead a team to rethink how the company handles its intellectual property.
 Mr. Kelly recalled his boss telling him, ''This is a hugely important area, and I think we need to redirect our strategy and policy and practices.'' Mr. Palmisano, according to Mr. Kelly, then added, ''If any company can take the lead on this, it's us.''
 Mr. Kelly, leading a 12-person group, traveled, studied, brought in outside specialists, and by last September concluded that more of I.B.M.'s homegrown ideas should be shared instead of being tightly held. 
 The shift, admittedly, is carefully calibrated. 
 I.B.M. is not forsaking its lucrative technology licensing business or pulling back on new patent filings. And the company is not giving away the technology for its mainframe computers, its proprietary database software and other complete products. 
 Instead, it is freely contributing the technology building blocks that allow broader communication across industry networks. 
 Such moves do carry risk for I.B.M. 
 ''When you open some of your technology, it forces you to run higher up that economic food chain in your business,'' said Jim Stallings, an I.B.M. vice president for intellectual property and standards. 
 Another consideration is the need to keep intellectual property as both an offensive and a defensive weapon. The best shield against a patent infringement suit is often the threat that the target company may file a countersuit based on its own patent arsenal.
 ''The layer of technology that is open is going to steadily increase, but in going through this transition we're not going to be crazy,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''This is like disarmament. You're not going to give away all your missiles as a first step.'' 
 Still, I.B.M.'s new strategy represents a response to a number of changes in the marketplace for ideas. 
 More and more innovation in business, company executives say, is occurring across cooperative information networks, which require open technical standards. (The Internet and the Web stand as proof of the success of that model; their public standards make low-cost, global communications possible.)
 Companies in fields like health care, chemicals and car manufacturing are already working on standards for sharing more information. To create robust and widely used standards, companies have to make their own intellectual property -- usually specialized software for handling information -- available either for small licensing fees or free, as I.B.M. pledged to do for the Internet e-commerce group. The potential payoff is that open standards will help the entire industry grow faster, and may even work to the advantage of the company making the contributions. 
 ''If you open up your technology and reveal quickly, people will build on your stuff,'' said Eric von Hippel, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of a new book, ''Democratizing Innovation'' (MIT Press, 2005). ''It becomes more economically efficient to be open.''
 In its software business, I.B.M. has been a champion of open-source projects like the Linux operating system, on which programmers collaborate and share code. The patents it made available in January are for use in any open-source project. 
 Another development in recent years that pushed I.B.M. to reconsider its patent approach has been the surge in patent filings and lawsuits, including the rise of firms whose only business is to file patent infringement suits, known as ''patent trolls.''
 ''It seemed to us the pendulum has swung way too far in the direction of companies blindly chasing patents, and blindly chasing the enforcement of patents,'' Mr. Kelly said.
 There is also a sense of urgency to the intellectual property issue, I.B.M. executives say, because government officials in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere are expected to make crucial policy decisions in the next year or two. 
 I.B.M., not surprisingly, wants a ''balanced'' intellectual property policy intended to maintain incentives for inventors and to foster open technical standards so collaboration can flourish. It supports proposals in the United States to make software patents more difficult to obtain, hoping to help curb the patent-and-litigate frenzy. 
 The company is particularly interested in a proposed law to harmonize patent rules in the 25 countries of the European Union. Many European countries, legal specialists say, effectively allow software patents already as computer-accomplished inventions, which cover hardware and software working in tandem. 
 A proposal last month by the European Commission would recognize and define software patents across Europe as computer-accomplished inventions. But it would also require patent holders sometimes to share the technology to create open standards.
 The commission recommendation contains a provision that says software for allowing data sharing across different computer systems -- interoperability, in computer terms -- should be open. And interoperability, the commission added, should trump intellectual property rights, regardless of a company's patents. I.B.M., for one, is a strong proponent of that approach.
 But the compromise is fiercely opposed by some open-source advocates, small businesses and politicians, who argue that the formal legal endorsement of software patents could slow innovation, invite lawsuits and mainly serve the interests of big American software companies. 
 In Europe, software is covered by copyright, which protects a complete software product; patents go further, restricting the use of individual ingredients of technology. The European Parliament is expected to vote on the commission proposal this summer.
 Technology standards for data sharing and collaboration are the equivalent of trade agreements in the modern economy, said Irving Wladawsky-Berger, a vice president and technology strategist at I.B.M. ''Anything that enhances interoperability has to be open,'' he said. 
 The message from Europe, Mr. Wladawsky-Berger said, is clear: if companies do not ensure openness in their voluntary standards groups, governments will step in to enforce it.
 Still, software is malleable and tends to resist sharp boundary lines. Microsoft, for one, has resisted Europe's antitrust sanctions that seek to force the company to share its technology with rivals so that their products can operate smoothly with Windows server software. Microsoft initially argued that following the order could amount to giving away its valuable property to competitors.
 Last Monday, under threat of new fines, Microsoft said it would meet most of the demands of the European regulators. 
 I.B.M. is taking a different path, though it, too, is driven by self-interest and competitive advantage. Even as it preaches greater openness and collaboration, the company is also intent on extending its use of patents in its big technology services business. For example, it has software patents for new mathematical formulas that can be used to optimize orders in supply chains for retailers or manage risk in financial markets.
 ''But in services, when you are co-inventing with a customer, you have to take a lighter hand on intellectual property,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''It's very different from our proprietary tradition of 'it's ours and we'll license it.'''
 Mr. Kelly added that I.B.M. was still feeling its way in determining what technology it was willing to share. ''We don't know quite where this is headed, and the line will obviously evolve over time,'' he said. ''But every action we take will be done with an eye toward striking this more subtle balance between proprietary and open.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At I.B.M., John E. Kelly, left, and Jim Stallings are in the forefront of company moves to give away some patented property. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)Chart: ''Brain Freeze''The explosive growth in patent applications, particularly in biotechnology and software, has left the patent office struggling to keep up.Graph tracks patent applications in contrast to patents awarded from 1990-2004.(Sources by Josh Lerner, Harvard Business School
 U.S. Patent and Trademark Office)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); PATENTS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Inventions and Patents; Copyrights; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); ORGANIZATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF STRUCTURED INFORMATION STANDARDS (55%) International Business Machines Corp; Organization for Advancement of Structured In

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%) Steve Lohr; John E Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



217 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Health Care

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Those of us who accuse the administration of inventing a Social Security crisis are often accused, in return, of do-nothingism, of refusing to face up to the nation's problems. I plead not guilty: America does face a real crisis -- but it's in health care, not Social Security.
 Well-informed business executives agree. A recent survey of chief financial officers at major corporations found that 65 percent regard immediate action on health care costs as ''very important.'' Only 31 percent said the same about Social Security reform. 
 But serious health care reform isn't on the table, and in the current political climate it probably can't be. You see, the health care crisis is ideologically inconvenient.
 Let's start with some basic facts about health care.
 Notice that I said ''health care reform,'' not ''Medicare reform.'' The rising cost of Medicare may loom large in political discussion, because it's a government program (and because it's often, wrongly, lumped together with Social Security by the crisis-mongers), but this isn't a story of runaway government spending. The costs of Medicare and of private health plans are both rising much faster than G.D.P. per capita, and at about the same rate per enrollee. 
 So what we're really facing is rapidly rising spending on health care generally, not just the part of health care currently paid for by taxpayers. 
 Rising health care spending isn't primarily the result of medical price inflation. It's primarily a response to innovation: the range of things that medicine can do keeps increasing. For example, Medicare recently started paying for implanted cardiac devices in many patients with heart trouble, now that research has shown them to be highly effective. This is good news, not bad.
 So what's the problem? Why not welcome medical progress, and consider its costs money well spent? There are three answers. 
 First, America's traditional private health insurance system, in which workers get coverage through their employers, is unraveling. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that in 2004 there were at least five million fewer jobs providing health insurance than in 2001. And health care costs have become a major burden on those businesses that continue to provide insurance coverage: General Motors now spends about $1,500 on health care for every car it produces.
 Second, rising Medicare spending may be a sign of progress, but it still must be paid for -- and right now few politicians are willing to talk about the tax increases that will be needed if the program is to make medical advances available to all older Americans.
 Finally, the U.S. health care system is wildly inefficient. Americans tend to believe that we have the best health care system in the world. (I've encountered members of the journalistic elite who flatly refuse to believe that France ranks much better on most measures of health care quality than the United States.) But it isn't true. We spend far more per person on health care than any other country -- 75 percent more than Canada or France -- yet rank near the bottom among industrial countries in indicators from life expectancy to infant mortality. 
 This last point is, in a way, good news. In the long run, medical progress may force us to make a harsh choice: if we don't want to become a society in which the rich get life-saving medical treatment and the rest of us don't, we'll have to pay much higher taxes. The vast waste in our current system means, however, that effective reform could both improve quality and cut costs, postponing the day of reckoning.
 To get effective reform, however, we'll need to shed some preconceptions -- in particular, the ideologically driven belief that government is always the problem and market competition is always the solution. 
 The fact is that in health care, the private sector is often bloated and bureaucratic, while some government agencies -- notably the Veterans Administration system -- are lean and efficient. In health care, competition and personal choice can and do lead to higher costs and lower quality. The United States has the most privatized, competitive health system in the advanced world; it also has by far the highest costs, and close to the worst results.
 Over the next few weeks I'll back up these assertions, and talk about what a workable health care reform might look like, if we can get ideology out of the way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (67%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (65%); TAX LAW (64%); FOUNDATIONS (60%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



218 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: New York Public Library to Sell Major Artworks to Raise Funds

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The New York Public Library has decided to sell 19 works of art from its collection -- including ''Kindred Spirits,'' a widely admired landscape by the Hudson River School painter Asher B. Durand, and two seminal portraits of George Washington by Gilbert Stuart -- so that it can better compete in acquisitions of important books and collections. 
 Sotheby's, which has been retained by the library, estimates that the works will sell for $50 million to $75 million. The transactions will be handled either privately or by public auction. Paul LeClerc, the library's president, said all of the money would go toward buying books, manuscripts and other works on paper and toward bolstering the library's endowment.
 ''We're not a museum,'' he said. ''We don't have a staff devoted to paintings and sculptures. One of the thrills of running a great library is keeping up with the explosion of information. If we don't grow, we cannot maintain the claim that we are one of the greatest libraries in the world.'' 
 In the hope that many of the artworks can remain on public view in New York, library officials said, any New York institution that wishes to purchase a work will be given preferential payment terms. But it is unclear how much of a financial compromise officials are going to be willing to make to keep the artworks -- paintings and sculptures by major American artists -- in the area. 
 Art experts say the divestiture would be one of the largest sales of artworks by a major public institution in recent memory.
 Over the last two decades, arts institutions in need of money have occasionally sought to part with valuable works to maintain their stated missions. For example, the Armand Hammer Museum of Art and Cultural Center sold of one of Leonardo's Codex manuscripts to Bill Gates for $30.8 million in 1994.
 But to art experts, the library's attempt to sell its important artworks so it can devote itself more fully to acquiring significant books seems a turning point for the institution. 
 Still, Mr. LeClerc said the soaring cost of books and research materials, coupled with city and state cutbacks and the shrinkage of the library's endowment as a result of the tepid stock market performance after Sept. 11, 2001, left the library with little choice but to sell the artworks to continue expanding its collection. The library owns some 43.3 million research materials, including 15.5 million books.
 Fund-raising at the library has remained strong, he said, but the library has sought to channel much of that money toward restoring the branch hours that it reduced for financial reasons after 9/11. 
 In 2000, the library's endowment hit a high of $530 million, but because of 9/11 it dropped to $426 million by the end of 2002. Since then, the endowment has grown to roughly what it was at four years ago. ''But during those four years we lost a huge amount of purchasing power,'' Mr. LeClerc said. ''There was not sufficient revenue to support growth.''
 ''Inflation meant that with the same amount of money we were buying fewer books or passing up collections we wanted,'' he said. ''Had we been growing at our projected 8 percent a year, we would have had $18 million'' -- versus the $13 million it had this year to buy books. It would take $100 million in new endowments well invested, he said, to generate the $5 million in income that the library needs.
 Unlike museums, which generally charge admission to supplement revenue, public libraries are, of course, free. The New York Public Library relies on private sources for 70 percent of its financing, Mr. LeClerc said. Asked if he expected a benefactor would emerge to enable the library to keep the artworks, he simply said no. 
 He stressed that none of the money raised from the sale of the art would go toward daily operations. ''It is crucial that we can provide a permanent source of revenue to purchase books so that we will be comprehensive for future scholars,'' he added. 
 The library has retained Sotheby's to decide on the best way to sell the art, whether at auction or privately. ''We're not ruling anything out,'' said Dara Mitchell, director of Sotheby's American paintings department. 
 Officials at the library said the trustees voted to pursue the sale in November but only recently settled on Sotheby's as the agent. Catherine C. Marron, chairwoman of the library, said the vote was unanimous.
 Among the works to be sold -- 15 paintings and 4 busts -- the overwhelming star is Durand's ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), which is named for a phrase in a Keats sonnet and depicts the painter Thomas Cole and the poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a rocky ledge overlooking the Catskills. That painting and most of the others being sold have been on public view in the Edna Barnes Salomon Room on the third floor of the main library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street.
 ''Kindred Spirits'' was commissioned by Jonathan Sturges, one of Durand's most important patrons, as a gift for Bryant and remained in Bryant's family until it was donated to the library by his daughter, Julia, in 1904. Although Ms. Mitchell declined to say what she believed the painting was worth, experts in the field suggested that it could fetch $25 million to $30 million. 
 Also significant are the two portraits of Washington, which are currently on view through July 31 at the National Gallery of Art in Washington as part of the museum's Gilbert Stuart retrospective. The earlier of the two was owned by Alexander Hamilton and was painted in 1797 while Washington was serving his second term as president. 
 ''Through deliberate review and thought over a couple of years we came to the conclusion that the sale of these paintings and sculptures was critical to maintaining our excellence,'' Ms. Marron said. ''This is about how to best build our collections.'' 
 The value of American paintings has steadily risen in recent years as a group of collectors, led by Bill Gates, has quietly paid large sums for top-quality works as they come up for sale. (Mr. Gates paid $30 million for a Winslow Homer seascape in 1998.) 
 Mr. LeClerc said he would far prefer to see the library's gems go to a public institution. By selling them through Sotheby's, the library would be able to assess its options in time for Sotheby's December auction of American art. 
 Given the library's determination to remain among the world's greatest, it is unclear whether it will encounter public criticism of the sale.
 ''Sure there may be some politician who starts screaming that New York patrimony could be lost,'' said John Wilmerding, an American art scholar and Princeton University professor who was asked to advise the library. ''But that would be unfair and unrealistic.'' 
 ''If this has to happen, this is the way to go about it,'' he added.
 While the 1797 Gilbert Stuart painting of Washington, which shows him half-length, seated and wearing a black velvet suit with a sword across his lap, recalls the Stuart's more famous ''Lansdowne'' portrait of Washington in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, this one has a seascape in the background, which is rare for Stuart. It was commissioned by William Kerin Constable, a New York merchant, as a gift for Hamilton, who was Washington's first secretary of the Treasury. The portrait remained in Hamilton's family, until Alexander Hamilton II, his grandson, bequeathed it to the Astor Library, which eventually became part of the New York Public Library in 1895. American painting experts estimated that the painting could easily sell for about $20 million. 
 The second portrait of Washington, dating from around 1800, is the first of four identical full-length paintings by Stuart. 
 Washington is depicted standing with his right hand resting on a document on a table and his other hand holding a sword. It is known as the Munro-Lenox Portrait, after two of its 19th-century owners: Peter Jay Munro, a lawyer, and James Lenox, the New York bibliophile and philanthropist. After Lenox's death, a library that he had established in 1870 merged with the Astor Library. 
 Another notable work being offered, by John Singleton Copley, is a portrait of Francis Deering Atkinson, the wife of Theodore Atkinson, secretary of the province of New Hampshire. Painted in 1765, it shows Mrs. Atkinson seated at a table playing with a pet squirrel on a chain. 
 Mr. LeClerc acknowledged that the library was selling the best of its collection. All that will be left are a few paintings, sculptures and pieces of furniture of far less value, he said. 
 Yet this is not the first time the library has disposed of artworks. During its more than 100-year history, it has periodically sold paintings to raise money. Over the last 60 years, 450 paintings and sculptures have either been sold or placed elsewhere by the library.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Asher B. Durand's ''Kindred Spirits'' is the standout work being sold. (Photo by Sotheby's)(pg. B5)
 One of the two Gilbert Stuart portraits of Washington to be sold. (Photo by Sotheby's)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%) Art; Auctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Art

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Public Library; Sotheby's

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: Carol Vogel; Gilbert (1755-1828) Stuart; George (1732-99) Washington; Asher B (1796-1886) Durand; Paul Leclerc

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



219 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Newark Journal; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: We'll Make This Dream Come True, Mayor Says

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 8 

 BODY:
With a deafening roar, tons of brick and steel beams crumbled on Friday under the assault of the wrecker's ball at a downtown corner where this city's past, its frustrated hopes and its latest dreams of prosperity intersect.
 Nearly 20 years ago, when Newark was still suffering from the wounds inflicted in the 1967 race riots, a developer arrived like an Icarus in a leased Rolls-Royce. His dream was to build a seven-story retail mall and office complex and, later, a 121-story building, the world's tallest, over the site of the old Central Jersey Rail Station at the corner of Lafayette and Broad Streets, which is now the planned site for a new arena for the New Jersey Devils hockey team.
 But the developer, Harry Grant, went bankrupt when his Renaissance Mall, the first part of his plan, was half-done. Its weathered marble and rusting skeleton have sat there since 1986, a reminder of the fate of those who soar with waxen wings and of how desperately the city had desired a comeback. 
 ''When no one loved us and no one wanted us, anyone could come in and sell us snake oil,'' Mayor Sharpe James said earlier this week. He was reflecting on the differences between two decades ago and now, after the unveiling of the design for the $310 million New Jersey Devils arena scheduled to open in 2007.
 ''That Harry Grant project was an individual's dream, and it reminds us of how individual dreams often fall,'' Mr. James said. ''The arena, on the other hand, is the result of a holistic approach and is the work of a public-private partnership between the city and the Devils, a blue ribbon citizens' committee, preservationists and the City Council. The lesson is that the strongest word in the dictionary is 'we,' not 'I.'''
 For nearly a month, crews have been taking down the half-finished mall and a part of the old rail station, section by section, being careful to avoid damaging adjoining buildings along Broad Street. The workers also are protecting the facade and concourse of the old rail station, which will become a museum. 
 Joseph Bordone, a project engineer with Mazzocchi Wrecking, watched a massive machine pound a steel beam that had been weakened by a Swiss cheese pattern of holes made by workers using acetylene torches. When the beam finally buckled, the vaulted fretwork around the station's old ticket windows crashed down with a sustained roar.
 ''Doesn't it make your hair stand on end?'' Mr. Bordone said with a boyish grin. ''That's the sound of progress.''
 Last week, the owner of the Devils, Jeffrey Vanderbeek, put up a billboard showing the architect's rendering of the new arena. Passers-by stared in approval, but some also recalled the past with the wisdom of the ''once-bitten, twice-cautious.''
 Gerald Krovatin, a lawyer whose office is two blocks from the site, remembered Harry Grant as ''a burst of sunshine'' for Newark, which clouded over into ''question marks and promises that never came true.''
 Rick Thigpen, a political consultant and former executive director of the State Democratic Party, was a young aide to Donald M. Payne, then a councilman and now a congressman, when Mr. Grant was pitching his dreams. The developer made fast friends in the city, he recalled, by, among other things, financing the application of 24-karat gold leaf to the massive City Hall dome near his mall project and by replacing the pedestrian concrete sidewalks in front of City Hall with elegant Belgian block and coral paving stones.
 His beneficence irked City Hall when he continued his sidewalk renewal four blocks north on Broad Street without getting city permission. Mr. James, the newly elected mayor at the time, filed criminal trespass charges against Mr. Grant. 
 Even Mr. Grant's plan to build the 121-story building surprised city officials; they said he commandeered Council chambers for a news conference to announce it. Alfred Faiella, then the city's economic development director, recalled that he, the mayor and some council members, sat alongside the news media, incredulous about what they were hearing.
 Mr. Grant was born in Iraq and changed his name from Uri Chyavi; he moved to the United States from Israel. He could not be reached for comment. A call to a lawyer who represented a company that had been operated by Mr. Grant was not returned.
 Mr. Grant, who was based in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., had developed successful smaller projects on Long Island and in Bergen County. In the 1990's, he owned New York Apple Tours, which operated red double-decker buses that offered tours of New York City. 
 Apple Tours ran afoul of city and state officials for thousands of dollars in traffic citations, unlicensed operators, and noise complaints. In 2001, after the city allowed it to continue operating on the condition that Mr. Grant step down as its head, the company was convicted of evading federal emission standards for buses and incurred an $800,000 fine.
 But for Mayor James, after the unveiling of the design of the new arena before 200 civic leaders, the activities of Mr. Grant seemed to belong to another time.
 ''It's going to be a beautiful oasis in the heart of Newark,'' the mayor said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Demolition of the Central Jersey Rail Station in Newark. Right, Harry Grant, a developer who could not finish a mall in the city in the 1980's. (Photo by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tom Kitts/The Star-Ledger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RIOTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



220 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: For Act II, Architect Gets More Hands-On

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
One might have thought Richard Meier would be reluctant to return to the site, given that the two $50 million glass-and-steel apartment towers he designed on Perry Street and West Street overlooking the Hudson River had attracted so much negative publicity. Celebrity watchers had reveled in reports of leaks, construction delays and other problems that inconvenienced rich and famous tenants like Nicole Kidman, Calvin Klein and Martha Stewart.
 But Mr. Meier was undaunted, having now designed another glass condominium building next door, at 165 Charles Street, to be completed in October. Striding through the construction site in the West Village the other day, his white hair flowing out beneath his hard hat, dust coating the trim of his black trench coat, he seemed anything but chastened as he surveyed his new 16-story transparent tower. 
 ''I love being here,'' he said. 
 To be sure, the Perry Street experience was exasperating, Mr. Meier said, but it taught him an important lesson: how crucial it is to have greater control over the construction and the interior design of his projects.
 Buildings usually go through value engineering, for example, when a consulting architect comes in to suggest how things could be done for less. Not 165 Charles Street. ''I've been through that,'' he said. ''I know what that does. In the end, it compromises everything.''
 And typically, details inside apartment buildings are handled by interior designers, not the architects themselves, who do not usually get involved with finishes, fittings and fixtures. 
 Fortunately, the developers of Charles Street were willing to oblige Mr. Meier, the celebrated architect whose projects include the Getty Center in Los Angeles, the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art, the Jubilee Church in Rome and the Manhattan restaurant 66. 
 Mr. Meier has taken a similar hands-on approach to a residential building he is designing in Brooklyn on Grand Army Plaza overlooking Prospect Park. The 30-story condominium includes 120 units, most of which have balconies with park views. 
 Because there was no value engineering at Charles Street, banks would finance only about 60 percent of the $90 million building, rather than the standard 80 to 90 percent. ''It could have saved me a lot of money,'' said Izak Senbahar, one of the developers, but he chose not to cut any corners. ''I thought it was a better decision to just go for it.'' 
 Mr. Meier designed the interior of all 31 apartments himself, as well as the building's 50-foot pool with waterfall, 35-seat screening room, wine cellar and fitness center. The developers also paid handsomely for every architectural detail. There are no baseboards; instead the walls float one-quarter inch off the floors like those at the newly renovated Museum of Modern Art -- with the same crew doing the installation. The nine-foot-tall bathroom doors, made of opaque glass, were $6,500 each. The African wenge wood floors are being put down by the same team responsible for the Getty's flooring. There is humidity control for people with art collections. 
 At the Perry Street towers, developed by Richard Born and his partners and opened two years ago, the apartments were delivered as raw space for tenants to configure with their own designers. 
 At Charles Street, Mr. Meier has had uncommon leeway in keeping tabs on construction. ''We have given the architect the right to come in more often to the job site and make sure it is all happening according to plan,'' Mr. Senbahar said. ''The usual deal is, they design it, you build it,'' he added. ''But we have gone the extra distance to give Richard what he wants.'' 
 Mr. Meier said he hoped his Charles Street experience would be instructive for the many other architects who have turned their attention to residential buildings in New York.
 Steven Holl, Zaha Hadid, Santiago Calatrava, Frank Gehry, Christian de Portzamparc, Richard Rogers, Architectonica, Norman Foster, Enrique Norten, Robert A.M. Stern, Charles Gwathmey, Jean Nouvel, Tsao & McKown, Winka Dubbeldam, Herzog & de Meuron and Michael Graves are just some of those designing residential towers in New York. 
 Louise M. Sunshine, the chairwoman and chief executive of the Sunshine Group, which is marketing Charles Street, said great architecture could add $400 to $1,000 per square foot in value to the purchase price. Charles Street is 60 percent sold, she said, at prices ranging from $3 million to $20 million. 
 Celebrity architects have also become a selling point. ''It gives the building a certain cachet,'' said Deborah Grubman, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group, a real estate company that has sold some of the Meier apartments. ''It's like having a signed painting.''
 But it is not as if Mr. Meier was some petulant artist asking for the moon, Mr. Senbahar said. ''He's built churches in Rome and museums in Barcelona,'' Mr. Senbahar said. ''He's a reasonable man.'' 
 Moreover, economics still rule. ''You can say, 'The architect should be able to do more,''' Mr. Meier said. ''But if the developer is not willing to spend the money, you have very little power.''
 When the architect Bernard Tschumi designed his new blue glass tower for the Lower East Side, for example, he had to shape the building to get the maximum space and still meet strict zoning regulations. ''The developer wants to get every square foot,'' he said. ''In New York, it seems to be strictly business.''
 The rewards, however, are heady: these architects are changing the New York skyline. Pass by the Meier buildings at night along the West Side Highway or from the Hudson River and you can't help but notice. 
 As a New Jersey native who has lived in New York City all his adult life, Mr. Meier takes pride in this. ''It's like Rockefeller Center,'' he said. ''It makes a place in the city.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Monday about the architect Richard Meier and his hands-on approach to projects included outdated information provided by his firm about a residential building he is designing on Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn. It will be 15 stories, not 30. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Meier, below, is adding the residential tower at right to the two earlier buildings he designed overlooking the Hudson River. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (71%); RESTAURANTS (62%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%) Housing; Condominiums; Housing

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%); NICOLE KIDMAN (56%) Richard Meier; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



221 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Doubts About Whether Shutdowns Equal Savings

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Will closing hospitals actually save taxpayers any money?
 That is clearly the goal of state officials, who are under enormous pressure to cut spending on Medicaid, the health care program for the poor, and who see unnecessary hospital beds as a good place to start. Gov. George E. Pataki recently said that closings would be a significant part of his plan to cut billions from Medicaid in the coming years. 
 But even advocates of closings say there are questions about the long-term savings, noting that any real reduction in expenses might be many years away. And some people who study hospital economics question whether shrinking the industry will lower health care expenses at all.
 ''The cost savings argument is to be taken with a grain of salt,'' said James R. Tallon Jr., the president of United Hospital Fund, a policy group based in Manhattan. ''And the linkage to Medicaid is, at best, a tangential linkage.''
 Hospitals in New York are in terrible economic shape, and there is broad agreement that if some of them close, the remaining ones will gain business. But skeptics say it might not lower the cost per patient, for Medicaid or any other payer.
 ''The real savings is in hospitals becoming more efficient, and merely closing hospitals doesn't accomplish that,'' said Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.
 Closing hospitals can take enormous costs out of the health care system in labor, real estate, maintenance and equipment, and can save money for private hospital corporations. But it is also expensive in the short run, involving settling the hospitals' long-term debts and converting buildings to other uses. That is why the state has asked for $1.5 billion in federal aid to help New York's hospitals weather a period of contraction -- a sort of down payment on future returns.
 ''You have to invest money to save money,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. 
 If consolidation revives hospital finances, Mr. Raske and state officials say, that would make money available to invest in computer systems to improve efficiency and patient care, and disease management programs to improve treatment of people with chronic ailments like diabetes. The experience around the country has been that such efforts, if handled well, can lower health care costs. But again, they involve large up-front costs for gains that take years to turn up.
 Paradoxically, in the near future, closing hospitals could drive the cost of inpatient care up, a point that state and hospital officials and other experts concede. 
 Hospitals have been battered by health maintenance organizations pushing down prices. With fewer hospitals, the prevailing logic goes, those that remain would be in a stronger negotiating position with H.M.O.'s -- in other words, they could charge more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (93%); MEDICAID (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DIABETES (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



222 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine for Hispanics Who Prefer to Read English

BYLINE: By ERIN BROWN

 BODY:
On a recent morning, Jaime Gamboa and Gabriel Grimalt walked into the concrete shell that would soon become the offices of their new magazine, Tu Ciudad. The sun was shining, and a row of windows facing north offered sweeping views from the Hollywood sign to downtown Los Angeles. 
 ''If we do our job right, we'll have the whole view,'' Mr. Gamboa said, imagining a day when Tu Ciudad's offices would expand across an entire floor. 
 Mr. Gamboa, 31, and Mr. Grimalt, 38, believe that Tu Ciudad, the first glossy English-language magazine in Los Angeles aimed at young, upscale Latinos, will be more than just a publication: they think it will prove that they, and wealthy Hispanics like them, have finally arrived. 
 In particular, the Tu Ciudad team is zeroing in on Hispanics who identify strongly with mainstream American culture while also cleaving to their Latin roots.
 ''We think this is going to shake up the way people see the Spanish market,'' Mr. Grimalt said. 
 For years, the conventional wisdom regarding the growing Latino market in the United States has been that it was, by definition, Spanish-speaking. But over the last decade or so, a growing chorus of marketers has sought out more assimilated Latino consumers -- people whose primary language is English. 
 The battle has been political at times. At times, Spanish-language advocates were of the opinion that speakers of English dismissed Spanish ethnic identity. At the same time, many among the English-language crowd consider the Spanish-language advocates (especially the television behemoth Univision) to be dinosaurs, more interested in protecting their own advertising sales turf than exploring what was really going on in their communities.
 ''Unfortunately, the way corporate America has approached this consumer is shaped by the loudest kid in town -- Spanish-language TV,'' said Manny Gonzalez, a senior brand manager at Diageo North America, who oversees Hispanic advertising for Johnnie Walker Scotch.
 ''This kind of publication should have arrived a long time ago in Los Angeles,'' said Mr. Gonzalez about Tu Ciudad. ''We have very few vehicles to reach the acculturated customer. But now you're seeing print space address that thirst for media options.''
 Angelo Figueroa, Tu Ciudad's 48-year-old editorial director, said that the magazine would speak in a voice that was equal parts Latino and American. ''We're saying, 'We know what's in the mainstream.' What that means is, in book reviews, not every book will be about Latinos.''
 ''Or the Killers,'' Mr. Grimalt said, referring to a rock band currently popular with the Anglo hipster crowd. 
 Manuel Machado, president of the Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies, said that publications like Tu Ciudad were ''the payoff for the people who've made it.'' It is unclear, for now, how exactly Tu Ciudad will strike the correct balance. Backed by Emmis Communications, which owns Los Angeles and Texas Monthly magazines, the bimonthly Tu Ciudad (Your City, in Spanish) will feature a familiar mix of glossy regional publication content -- celebrity profiles, reportage, listings, restaurant reviews, and design and fashion features -- ''with a Latino twist,'' its founders said. 
 That inaugural issue, scheduled for May 20, will go out to 110,000 readers in the greater Los Angeles area through controlled circulation. Within three years, its founders said, Tu Ciudad will shift to a subscription model. Eventually, the magazine hopes to expand to other major cities. 
 Tu Ciudad will join other magazines aiming at Hispanics, including popular titles such as People en Espanol, Latina and Hispanic Business, which took in $182 million in advertising revenue in 2004, an increase of 16.8 percent from the year before, and higher than the 11.1 percent increase for the general magazine market, says Carlos Pelay, president of Media Economics Group, a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., company that tracks Hispanic magazines. 
 Its three principals are well known in the business: Mr. Gamboa began by selling ads for Men's Health and Wired and for the Hispanic market heavyweight, People en Espanol; Mr. Grimalt was in Spanish radio; and Mr. Figueroa was the founding editor of People en Espanol. 
 But as more marketers acknowledge the buying power of Latinos, some observers of the English-language magazines wonder if advertisers already able to reach hip, wealthy Latinos through magazines like GQ and Vanity Fair will not consider the Tu Ciudad superfluous. 
 ''The one area where it might be difficult for these guys is running into clients who think, 'Why would I do an English-language message when I'm already reaching these guys with my general-market buys?''' said Lucia Fernandez-Palacios, media director at Dieste, Harmel & Partners, a Hispanic advertising agency in San Francisco. 
 But publishing regionally rather than nationally may give Tu Ciudad help in connecting with its audience. Mr. Figueroa said that Tu Ciudad will concern itself with the tastes of Latinos in Los Angeles, who mostly hail from Mexico.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A byline was misspelled in Business Day on Monday on an article about an English-language magazine for Hispanic readers. The writer was Eryn Brown, not Erin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The founders of Tu Ciudad, Gabriel Grimalt, left, and Jamie Gamboa aim to attract young, wealthy Latinos. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (65%); BRANDING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%) Magazines; English Language; Hispanic-Americans

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Tu Ciudad (Magazine)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (52%); DGE (LSE) (52%); DEO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%)

PERSON: erin brown; Jaime Gamboa; Gabriel Grimalt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



223 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Financial Firms Are at Less Risk of Tax Audits

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service audits the tax returns of nearly every large company in manufacturing, mining, heavy construction and agriculture, but just a fifth of big banks, insurance companies and brokerage firms, Syracuse University researchers said in a report scheduled for release last night.
 The researchers said the disparity in audit rates for the years 2002 through 2004 raised questions about the agency's focus on old-line industrial companies over the returns of financial services concerns, many of which have been central to the proliferation of aggressive tax shelters. 
 ''The very low attention being given to the financial sector by the I.R.S. is particularly surprising in light of the leading role this industry plays in the country's economy, including the level of income subject to federal corporate income taxes,'' the researchers said in their report. 
 The I.R.S. said no disparity existed and blamed flaws in its own statistical reporting system. 
 Among the 11,000 largest companies, the audit rate rose to 38 percent last year, from 29 percent in 2003, according to the report.
 A senior I.R.S. executive acknowledged in an interview, however, that some auditors were complaining that the increased numbers might mask a decline in the depth and quality of audits.
 The same I.R.S. executive challenged the Syracuse University report, saying I.R.S. corporate audit data was flawed. An audit of a bank or insurance company will be incorrectly reported as a manufacturing industry audit if the examination is done out of a small office, such as Boise, Idaho, that does not have a financial industry specialist, the I.R.S. said. Financial services companies account for 8,000 of the 11,000 largest companies.
 ''We track audit closures by our organizational structure where the audit was closed,'' said Deborah Nolan, the I.R.S. commissioner for large- and medium-size businesses.
 She said the Syracuse University researchers ''tried to oversimplify'' the data and ''came to the wrong conclusions.''
 That explanation was disputed by David Burnham, co-director of the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research unit at Syracuse University that gathers raw government data, organizes it and posts the data and analysis on the Internet at http://www.trac.syr.edu.
 ''There are indeed flaws in the way the I.R.S. gathers its data,'' Mr. Burnham said, ''but those flaws are nowhere near enough to explain why the audit rates for some industries are five times what the data show for the big banks, insurance companies and brokers. The disparity is just too great for that explanation to hold.''
 Noting the central role of banks, insurers and brokerage firms in creating and marketing abusive tax shelters, as well as intricate financial derivatives, Mr. Burnham said he found it ''truly amazing'' that manufacturers would receive more audit scrutiny.
 The disparity in audit rates is also a surprise to tax executives at major corporations, said Timothy J. McCormally, executive director for the Tax Executives Institute in Washington.
 After talking to some of his members, Mr. McCormally said audit rates for banks might be low because the I.R.S. measured them by deposits, not by assets owned by shareholders. ''It could be that it is quite easy to build to a $250 million balance sheet for a bank or insurance company but still not be that big a bank or insurance company,'' he said.
 Ms. Nolan, the I.R.S. executive, said the I.R.S. chose corporations for audit based on its analysis of the risk that the government was being shortchanged, not by industry.
 The new data also show that even as the government says that high-level tax cheating is growing, the I.R.S. has cut the rate at which it conducts face-to-face audits of individuals who have business income. 
 Last year, 45 million of the 130 million individual tax returns showed income from sole proprietorships, also known as Schedule C businesses, or from partnerships, S corporations and other business entities. In 1997, the agency conducted face-to-face audits with 5.6 percent of taxpayers reporting such business income. By 2002, that was down to 2.1 percent, and the next year it slipped to 1.9 percent. Last year the figure fell to 1.7 percent.
 Other I.R.S. data show that the audit rates are lowest for partnerships and S corporations, which are favored by investors and professionals such as lawyers. The I.R.S. audit rates are highest for Schedule C businesses, most of which report revenue of less than $50,000.
 The I.R.S. has also cut back on assessing penalties for fraud and negligence.
 In 2004, 25 negligence penalties were assessed against corporations, a 99 percent decline since 1993. Fraud penalties fell to 132, from 555 in 1993.
 Tax returns were filed by 5.3 million corporations last year, but the largest 10,989 accounted for 90 percent of all assets and 87 percent of profits, the data show. 
 Among the largest companies, the big banks, insurers and other financial services firms collected a quarter of all revenue and earned 61.6 percent of profits to shareholders, but just a third of taxable profits.
 Manufacturing was larger, with a third of the revenue. This sector earned just under a quarter of all corporate profits reported to shareholders, but more than 37 percent of all profits subject to tax. Tax rules run counter to the business cycle, pushing up manufacturing profits subject to tax in hard times and pushing it down in good times.
 Based on figures reported to shareholders, the financial services firms had a tax rate in 2001 of 15.6 percent because only a little more than half of those profits were subject to tax. The story was the reverse for manufacturing industries, where more money was subject to tax than profits reported to shareholders, resulting in an effective tax rate of 28.8 percent.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the drop in audit rates for federal tax returns misstated the rate of decline in face-to-face reviews of taxpayers with business income. They fell to 1.7 per thousand taxpayers last year from 5.6 per thousand in 1997; not to 1.7 percent from 5.6 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Eye of the I.R.S.''For years, audit rates of various types of businesses have been falling. But last year the audit rate for the 11,000 biggest companies rose by nearly a third. The Internal Revenue Service says this shows smarter use of resources, but acknowledges that some auditors say they are under pressure to be quick rather than thorough.Graph tracks the following from 1992-2004:1. Audits of partnerships, S corporations and similar pass-through entities. Audit rates per 1,0002. Percent of corporations with assets of $250 million or more whose tax returns were audited3. Percent of all corporate tax returns that were audited(Source by Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); AUDITS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TAX AUDITS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (68%) Taxation; Research; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (93%) Syracuse University; Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (68%) IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



224 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Amazon.com, already a proven bookseller, expands into publishing original work with the purchase of BookSurge.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
SURE, Amazon.com can sell books. But can it make them?
 The company itself raised that question, among others, last week when it purchased BookSurge, a book printing business based in Charleston, S.C., that specializes in so-called on-demand printing. BookSurge, which was privately held, is among a handful of companies spawned during the dot-com boom that rely on Internet technology to print a few books at a time, or even one at a time. 
 The services have been most popular with writers who are unable or unwilling to strike deals with publishing houses, and who do not want to spend thousands of dollars to complete a print run of, say, 2,000 books on a traditional offset press. Publishers, too, have used digital printing companies to satisfy small orders of obscure titles.
 Amazon.com declined to share specific details about the acquisition -- its second in five years. ''We feel we can do great things together. We're just not saying what that might be,'' said Patty Smith, a company spokeswoman. Nonetheless, Amazon appears a good match for BookSurge's would-be authors, because it attracts perhaps more literary types than any other electronic commerce site.
 The BookSurge deal, for which terms were not announced, may also help Amazon protect what remains a crucial part of its business, said Mark S. Mahaney, an analyst with the investment firm American Technology Research. 
 ''Anything to boost book sales is a good thing for Amazon's business, and for the stock,'' Mr. Mahaney said. ''This could help.''
 Sales of books and movies, Mr. Mahaney said, made up the bulk of Amazon's $2.6 billion in North American media sales last year -- revenues that also included music. In the fourth quarter of 2004, in particular, he said, Amazon's North America media sales jumped nearly 18 percent from the year-earlier period.
 ''That's remarkably robust, given that it's Amazon's oldest, most mature business,'' Mr. Mahaney said. That growth is particularly important, he added, because book sales garner profit margins of between 20 percent and 30 percent, compared to consumer electronics, which generate profits of 10 percent to 15 percent.
 Profit margins have been Amazon's Achilles' heel in recent months. In early February, the company said that its 2004 sales had climbed 31 percent, compared with 2003, but it said that its operating margins had dropped to 7 percent -- well off the company's stated long-term goal of 10 percent. At the same time, Amazon.com's share price slipped from nearly $42 to about $36. 
 The stock fell 30 cents to $34.60 a share on the Nasdaq on Friday.
 According to Robert Holt, BookSurge's managing director, the company has created proprietary software programs that automate the printing process to the point where even single-copy print orders are profitable, even though the book's final price is comparable to that of books produced through traditional means. 
 ''For a print run of 10,000 or 50,000 books, the manual costs can be spread out,'' Mr. Holt said. But for smaller print runs, he said, labor costs kill the economics of the operation.
 While lean manufacturing technology has existed for years at companies like BookSurge and Lightning Source, a division of the book distributor Ingram Industries, other elements have helped bring these services more squarely into the cross hairs of publishers and authors.
 Print quality has improved considerably, said Lorraine Shanley, a principal at Market Partners International, a publishing industry consulting firm. ''You can now use color in a book, and produce hardcovers as easily as paperbacks,'' she said.
 And perceptions about on-demand publishing have also changed. Previously, many writers rejected the notion of so-called vanity publishing -- the province of aspiring authors who spend tens of thousands of dollars to see their name on books collecting dust in the basement.
 With costs down and quality up, though, self-publishing has become more acceptable. And thanks to the Internet, authors have a greater chance of actually distributing their books. Susan Driscoll, chief executive of iUniverse, a service for self-published authors that is based in Lincoln, Neb., said one of her company's authors, Robert T. Dirgo, has found a steady market of about 800 copies a year for his book, ''How I Reversed My Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Hypothyroidism.''
 ''With the Internet, these kinds of authors can find and reach their readers,'' Ms. Driscoll said.
 According to Bryan Smith, chief executive of AuthorHouse, another self-publishing business that is based in Bloomington, Ind., writers have also been emboldened by success stories like that of Joe Vitale, an AuthorHouse writer who reached No. 3 on Amazon.com's best-seller list in 2003 with ''Spiritual Marketing: A Proven 5-Step Formula for Easily Creating Wealth From the Inside Out.'' Other AuthorHouse writers, he added, have moved from self-publishing to traditional publishing houses.
 Of course, for every writer who achieves financial or literary success through self-publishing, there are many more who have little, financially speaking at least, to show for the roughly $700 they pay to have their manuscript designed and bound, or the additional money they pay for marketing or editorial advice.
 Jill Scharff and Jaedene Levy, co-authors of ''The Facelift Diaries,'' which BookSurge published in October, have appeared on ''Good Morning America'' and the Fox News Channel, and have been mentioned in an article in The Washington Post, among other publications. Yet the authors said they have yet to turn a profit on their initial print run of 500 books, for which they paid an undisclosed amount.
 ''There is no money in this,'' said Ms. Scharff. ''There are some authors that seem to make money, but they probably have to put a lot more work into it -- although we have put a lot of work into it.''
 Still, Amazon appears well suited to sell its services even to those who more vaguely believe they may have a book in them, as do more than 80 percent of Americans, according to Ms. Driscoll, of iUniverse. Since many of those prospective writers are presumably readers, the Web's dominant bookseller could easily reach them.
 The Web site is already well-trodden ground for many experienced and would-be authors, analysts said, since it ranks the popularity of millions of book titles and provides a reliable database for those researching available books on a given topic. 
 And Amazon.com's new BookSurge clients could help increase advertising revenues, which now represent a small fraction of the company's overall sales. 
 Amazon charges authors and publishers about $750 monthly to promote their books on the site's item description pages for various best-selling titles.
 These ads, which have been a fairly well-kept secret in the industry, could attract new authors who are experiencing slow sales. After all, as any author knows, if a book does not sell well, it is clearly a marketing problem.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaedene Levy, left, and Jill Scharff wrote ''The Facelift Diaries,'' which BookSurge published. They have yet to earn a profit on the book, which had an initial print run of 500. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOOK PRINTING (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Automation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Books and Literature

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; BookSurge

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



225 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: 7 Vying for Mayor Appear Together, But Not for Long

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
For a fleeting moment yesterday morning, all seven New York City mayoral candidates appeared together for the first time at a community forum in Queens, looking a little like estranged relatives forced to share the same breakfast table.
 The interlude did not last long.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in a hurry to get to the Greek Independence Day Parade in Manhattan at 12:30 p.m., stayed seated next to Democrat Fernando Ferrer for less than a minute before rising to make a brief speech, field two questions from a moderator and leave. In the mayor's absence, his opponents criticized him for not sticking around to take questions from the audience at the Samuel Field Y.M.-Y.W.H.A. in Little Neck. 
 ''He saw fit to make a speech in which he was unchallenged, and leave, and I'm sorry to see that,'' said Thomas V. Ognibene, a former city councilman from Queens, who is one of two Republicans challenging Mr. Bloomberg for their party's nomination.
 Mr. Bloomberg's aides said they had made it clear to the organizers of the forum, sponsored by the Northeast Queens Jewish Community Council, that the mayor would not be taking part in a freewheeling exchange. Indeed, it would be highly unusual for any mayor to participate in a debate with multiple candidates from the opposing party before that party had settled on a nominee.
 The four Democrats -- Mr. Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president; Manhattan Borough President C. Virginia Fields; City Council Speaker Gifford Miller; and Representative Anthony D. Weiner -- are all vying for their party's nod. In addition to Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Ognibene, Steve Shaw, an investment banker from Brooklyn, is seeking the Republican nomination.
 ''We were invited to come and give opening remarks, and that's what we did,'' Mr. Bloomberg said later, referring to the Queens forum. ''But we've got a whole group of things to do today and are just trying to do as many of them as possible.''
 During his short stay, Mr. Bloomberg rattled off what he described as his administration's accomplishments, including a reduced crime rate, mayoral control of the city's schools and economic development projects. But he did not dwell on the biggest project: the plan for a Jets stadium on Manhattan's Far West Side. His opponents characterized the stadium as a financial boondoggle cooked up by Mr. Bloomberg and wealthy team owners, an argument that drew applause from the crowd.
 ''There's kind of this level of contempt for anyone who is not a billionaire in Manhattan,'' Mr. Weiner said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg speaking at a forum in Queens yesterday. Mr. Bloomberg appeared with the six other candidates for mayor. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); CRIME RATES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); STEVEN A SHAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



226 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: U.S. COMMANDERS SEE POSSIBLE CUT IN TROOPS IN IRAQ

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Robert F. Worth contributed reporting from Baghdad for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10 

 BODY:
Two years after the fall of Saddam Hussein, the American-led military campaign in Iraq is making enough progress in fighting insurgents and training Iraqi security forces to allow the Pentagon to plan for significant troop reductions by early next year, senior commanders and Pentagon officials say. 
 Senior American officers are wary of declaring success too soon against an insurgency they say still has perhaps 12,000 to 20,000 hard-core fighters, plentiful financing and the ability to change tactics quickly to carry out deadly attacks. But there is a consensus emerging among these top officers and other senior defense officials about several positive developing trends, although each carries a cautionary note. 
 Attacks on allied forces have dropped to 30 to 40 a day, down from an average daily peak of 140 in the prelude to the Jan. 30 elections but still roughly at the levels of a year ago. Only about half the attacks cause casualties or damage, but on average one or more Americans die in Iraq every day, often from roadside bombs. Thirty-six American troops died there in March, the lowest monthly death toll since 21 died in February 2004. 
 Attacks now are aimed more at killing Iraqi civilians and security forces, and have been planned with sinister care and timing to take place outside schools, clinics and police stations when large daytime crowds have gathered. 
 Several top associates of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian militant whose network has claimed responsibility for many of the most deadly attacks, have been captured or killed in recent weeks. American commanders say it now takes longer for insurgents to regroup and conduct a series of attacks with new tactics, like the one on the night of April 2 against the Abu Ghraib prison that wounded 44 Americans and 13 Iraqi prisoners.
 While senior commanders say the insurgency is still mostly driven by Iraqis, small numbers of foreign fighters who carry out most of the suicide bombings are still sneaking into the country, mainly from Syria. 
 The overall number of insurgents has remained virtually unchanged since last fall, even though hundreds, maybe thousands, have been killed or captured, suggesting that the insurgency can still attract the unemployed, disaffected and even enough true believers to keep the pool from drying up. American commanders also fear that the fledgling Iraqi government and security services are riddled with informants despite thorough vetting of applicants, officials say.
 The American military's priority has shifted from waging offensive operations to training Iraqi troops and police officers. Iraqi forces now oversee sections of Baghdad and Mosul, with American forces on call nearby to help in a crisis. More than 2,000 American military advisers are working directly with Iraqi forces.
 More Iraqi civilians are defying the insurgents' intimidation to give Iraqi forces tips on the locations of hidden roadside bombs, weapons caches and rebel safe houses. The Pentagon says that more than 152,000 Iraqis have been trained and equipped for the military or the police, but the quality and experience of those forces varies widely. Also, the Government Accountability Office said in March that those figures were inflated, including perhaps tens of thousands of police officers who are absent from duty. 
 Interviews with more than a dozen senior American and Iraqi officers, top Pentagon officials and lawmakers who have visited Iraq yield an assessment that the combination of routing insurgents from their sanctuary in Falluja last November and the Iraqi elections on Jan. 30 has given the military operation sustained momentum, and put the Bush administration's goal of turning Iraq over to a permanent, elected Iraqi government within striking distance. 
 ''We're on track,'' Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview. But the insurgency ''kills virtually every day,'' he warned. ''It's still a very potent threat.'' 
 This view of steady if uneven progress is shared by virtually all senior American commanders and Pentagon officials interviewed, who base their judgments on some 50 to 70 specific measurements from casualty figures to assassination attempts against Iraqi government officials as well as subjective analyses by American commanders and diplomats. They recall how plans a year ago to reduce American forces were dashed by resurgent rebel attacks in much of the Sunni-dominated areas north and west of Baghdad, and in Shiite hot spots like Najaf. And they express concern that a huge, last-ditch suicide attack against a prominent target, like the new Iraqi National Assembly, could deal the operation a severe blow. ''I worry about being excessively optimistic,'' Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld told reporters on March 29.
 Precisely when and how many American forces withdraw from Iraq hinges on several factors, including the security situation, the size and competence of newly trained Iraqi forces, and the wishes of the new Iraqi government. Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top commander in Iraq, told CNN two weeks ago that if all went well, ''we should be able to take some fairly substantial reductions in the size of our forces'' by this time next year. 
 General Casey has declined to describe the size of any possible troop reductions, but other senior military officials said American force levels in Iraq could drop to around 105,000, or about 13 brigades, by early next year, from the 142,000 now, just over 17 brigades. 
 Even some of the administration's toughest critics now express cautious optimism about an Iraq operation that costs more than $4 billion a month, as the nascent political process and slowly improving economy appear to drain away tacit support for the insurgency from the tens of thousands of Iraqi civilians the military calls ''fence-sitters.'' 
 ''We've gained some real military traction over the past several months, but we'd be naive to think that the insurgency is over,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat and former officer in the 82nd Airborne Division. ''We're there militarily for the long haul.'' 
 American officials say the insurgency is still a mix of former Baath Party loyalists, Iraqi military and security service officers, Sunni Arab militants and terrorists like Mr. Zarqawi. Rather than focusing on their numbers, commanders say they are more concerned with what the insurgents can do. These groups are well armed and well financed, but are suffering some recruiting problems that are increasingly forcing them to form tactical partnerships to carry out their attacks, officials said.
 ''They're slowly losing,'' said Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, a senior aide to General Myers who commanded the Fourth Infantry Division in Iraq last year. 
 Helping the situation is that, as the Iraqi security forces gain more confidence and experience, Iraqi residents have put more trust in them. ''We are gaining more victories because people are now cooperating more with us,'' Maj. Gen. Adnan Thabit, the head of 11,000 Iraqi police commandos and other security forces, said in an interview.
 Senior officers say the increased pressure on insurgents is driving many of them out of safe havens in Mosul, Samarra and Baghdad, and into the desert. Senior officials say it is notable, although not clearly understood, how the insurgency seems to be moving in more of a set-piece fashion than it did in its early period. 
 The Abu Ghraib attacks, for example, were coordinated, small-unit strikes by 40 to 60 insurgents, though they were largely ineffective, officers say. 
 ''At this point, we are all concerned they may be changing tactics,'' Brig. Gen. John DeFreitas III, the senior military intelligence officer in Iraq, said in an interview. ''It's still too early to tell.''
 Commanders are also concerned that the attacks are being aided by a growing network of informants, some of whom appear to be in lower levels of the new Iraqi civilian administration and security forces.
 ''They have tentacles that reach all through the new government and the new military,'' said Lt. Gen. Walter E. Buchanan, the top American air commander in the Persian Gulf region. The concern about infiltration by former Hussein loyalists has slowed, to some degree, the reforming of Iraqi security forces at all levels. ''Picking senior leadership has been slower initially than I think anyone liked because the vetting process had to be so carefully done,'' General Myers said, adding that the process now is ''moving faster, and faster and faster.''
 Indeed, the biggest remaining challenges are recruiting new Iraqi leaders at all levels of command, and training the new Iraqi police, American officers say.
 Officials say that in training Iraqi forces as well as filling the ranks of the new Interior and Defense Ministries, they seek to strike a balance between pressing them to assume more responsibilities quickly, and not doing so before they are ready. 
 ''We don't want a rush to failure,'' said Brig. Gen. Carter F. Ham, the Joint Staff's deputy director of operations, who recently ended a tour as head of American forces in northern Iraq. 
 ''There has been a steady increase, particularly since the elections, in the capabilities and numbers of Iraqi units,'' Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American trainer in Iraq, said in an e-mail message. ''However, there is still a huge amount of work to be done to help them achieve the capability of conducting independent counter-insurgency operations.'' 
 How quickly those Iraqi forces take over security duties will dictate the timetable of the American withdrawal. General Myers said senior Iraqi leaders had discussed with him a possible long-term economic and security partnership with the United States, after most troops go home. 
 Even then, sizable numbers of Special Operations forces, intelligence personnel and surveillance systems will probably remain in Iraq or nearby countries to help quell the insurgency. Gen. John P. Jumper, the Air Force chief of staff, said, ''I think we're there for a long time.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers from the 205th Battalion of the Iraqi Army searching a house in Miqdadiya with the aid of a flashlight held by an American soldier. (Photo by Christoph Bangert/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart: ''A Report Card on Iraq Security''Two years after the invasion of Iraq.American military deathsGraph tracks number of military deaths caused by accidents or of other causes and those killed in action or died of wounds since March 2003.Target of attacks By numberGraph tracks number of attacks since March 2003 on the following targets:On civiliansOn U.S. and allied forcesOn Iraqi forcesOn other targetsTarget of attacks By proportionGraph tracks attacks by proportion for the targets listed above since March 2003.Training of Iraqi security forcesDEFENSE MINISTRY FORCESIraqi ArmyGOAL: 94,656TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 66,895PCT.: 71%Air ForceGOAL: 453TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 186PCT.: 41%NavyGOAL: 582TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 521PCT.: 90%INTERIOR MINISTRY FORCESIraqi Police, Highway PatrolGOAL: 141,300TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 55,862PCT.: 40%Other forcesGOAL: 34,050TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 29,153PCT.: 86%TotalGOAL: 271,041TRAINED AND EQUIPPED*: 152,617PCT.: 56%*As of April 4.Note: Figures for the Interior Ministry include police officers who are absent without leave, a number that military officials say could be in the tens of thousands.(Sources: Department of Defense [American military deaths]
Government Accountability Office, from Defense Intelligence Agency data [insurgent attacks]
 State Department [Iraqi security forces])(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Elections

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Syria; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



227 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: 'Just I.O.U.'s,' The President Says

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Shameless Photo-Op,'' you are right to make the case that the Social Security trust fund is no joke. As you point out, future generations will have to make good on the debt issued to the Social Security trust fund. But why do critics of President Bush's plan minimize the consequences of requiring future generations to honor those debt obligations? 
 Paying back Social Security will require higher taxes, spending cuts, further increases in debt or some combination of the three; all of the options have significant fiscal and economic implications. It's possible to criticize President Bush's approach to Social Security reform without minimizing the fiscal problems posed by an aging population, isn't it?

Nancy Vanden Houten
Teaneck, N.J., April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGING (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005



228 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: China Said to Step Up Religious Persecution of Minority in Its West

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 11 

 BODY:
China has stepped up a campaign of religious persecution against its minority Uighur population in the western region of Xinjiang even though the government has already eliminated any organized resistance to Beijing's rule there, two leading human rights groups said in a joint report to be released Tuesday.
 The groups, Human Rights Watch and Human Rights in China, quoted secret Communist Party and government documents as detailing a range of new policies that tighten controls on religious worship, assembly and artistic expression among Xinjiang's eight million Turkic-speaking Muslims, including strict rules on teaching religion to minors.
 China adopted some of the measures, the groups said, after it persuaded the Bush administration that a little known Uighur exile group, the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, was responsible for terrorist acts and belonged on America's list of leading terrorist threats. The groups said China has used isolated terrorist acts to justify a wholesale crackdown on its Uighur Muslim population. 
 ''China is using the suppression of religion as a whip over Uighurs who challenge or even chafe at Chinese rule of Xinjiang,'' Brad Adams, Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement. ''In other parts of China, individuals have a little more space to worship as they choose. But Uighur Muslims are facing state-ordered discrimination and crackdowns.''
 China has waged a long-term battle against what it describes as ''splittist'' forces in its two sprawling but lightly populated border regions of Xinjiang and Tibet. The Beijing government has promoted rapid economic development in both areas, while encouraging migration of Han Chinese, the dominant ethnic group, to offset the influence of Tibetans and Uighurs in their home communities.
 The Chinese government has long maintained that it allows religious freedom in both areas, opposing only those people who use religion to advocate independence.
 But the human rights groups said that in practice the authorities in Xinjiang have adopted ever-more-intrusive controls, including intensive political vetting of imams, surveillance inside mosques and screening of literature and poetry for even vague hints of dissent.
 Even prosaic complaints about the government or the quality of life that might no longer be taken as threatening in other parts of China are often viewed as veiled support for separatism in Xinjiang, the report said.
 Although these and other human rights groups welcomed the release of Rebiya Kadeer, Xinjiang's best known political prisoner, before the United Nations Human Rights Commission's annual meeting last month, the report's authors said they detected no signs of a general easing of conditions in the region.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); HUMAN RIGHTS (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); ETHNICITY (65%); POETRY (61%); WRITERS (61%) Freedom of Religion; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government ; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Islam

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%) Human Rights Watch; Human Rights in China

PERSON: Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTHWEST CHINA (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XINJIANG, CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (98%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%) China; Xinjiang Province (China); China

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



229 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

PERSON: Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman

HEADLINE: Maurice Hilleman, Master in Creating Vaccines, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman, a microbiologist who developed vaccines for mumps, measles, chickenpox, pneumonia, meningitis and other diseases, saving tens of millions of lives, died yesterday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85. 
 The cause was cancer, said a son-in-law, Greg Slamowitz.
 Raised on a farm in Montana, Dr. Hilleman credited much of his success to his boyhood work with chickens, whose eggs form the foundation of so many vaccines. 
 Much of modern preventive medicine is based on Dr. Hilleman's work, though he never received the public recognition of Salk, Sabin or Pasteur. He is credited with having developed more human and animal vaccines than any other scientist, helping to extend human life expectancy and improving the economies of many countries.
 Dr. Hilleman probably saved more lives than any other scientist in the 20th century, said two medical leaders, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Dr. Paul A. Offit, chief of infectious diseases at Children's Hospital in Philadelphia.
 ''The scientific quality and quantity of what he did was amazing,'' Dr. Fauci said. ''Just one of his accomplishments would be enough to have made for a great scientific career. One can say without hyperbole that Maurice changed the world with his extraordinary contributions in so many disciplines: virology, epidemiology, immunology, cancer research and vaccinology.''
 Dr. Hilleman developed 8 of the 14 vaccines routinely recommended: measles, mumps, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, chickenpox, meningitis, pneumonia and Haemophilus influenzae bacteria (which brings on a variety of symptoms, including inflammation of the lining of the brain and deafness). He also developed the first generation of a vaccine against rubella or German measles. The vaccines have virtually vanquished many of the once common childhood diseases in developed countries.
 Dr. Hilleman overcame immunological obstacles to combine vaccines so that one shot could protect against several diseases, like the MMR vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella.
 He developed about 40 experimental and licensed animal and human vaccines, mostly with his team from Merck of Whitehouse Station, N.J. His role in their development included lab work as well as scientific and administrative leadership. His colleagues said he routinely credited others for their roles in advances.
 Vaccine development is complex, requiring an artistry to safely produce large amounts of weakened live or dead micro-organisms. ''Maurice was that artist: no one had the green thumb of mass production that he had,'' Dr. Offit said.
 The hepatitis B vaccine, licensed in 1981, is credited as the first to prevent a human cancer: a liver cancer, known as a hepatoma, that can develop as a complication of infection from the hepatitis B virus.
 One of Dr. Hilleman's goals was to develop the first licensed vaccine against any viral cancer. He achieved it in the early 1970's, developing a vaccine to prevent Marek's disease, a lymphoma cancer of chickens caused by a member of the herpes virus family. Preventing the disease helped revolutionize the economics of the poultry industry.
 Dr. Hilleman's vaccines have also prevented deafness, blindness and other permanent disabilities among millions of people, a point made in 1988 when President Ronald Reagan presented him with the National Medal of Science, the nation's highest scientific honor.
 Dr. Hilleman also discovered several viruses and made fundamental discoveries about the way the influenza virus mutates.
 Because scientific knowledge about viruses was so limited when he began his career, Dr. Hilleman said that trial and error, sound judgment and luck drove much of his research.
 Luck played a major role in the discovery of adenoviruses. Dr. Hilleman flew a team to Missouri to collect specimens from troops suffering from influenza. But by the time his team arrived, influenza had died out. Dr. Hilleman, fearing that he would be fired for an expensive useless exercise, seized on his observation of the occurrence of a fresh outbreak of a different disease. His team discovered three new types of adenoviruses among the troops.
 Dr. Hilleman was a discoverer or co-discoverer of a number of other viruses, including hepatitis A; rhinoviruses; and SV40, a monkey virus that causes cancer and that was included in the earliest human polio vaccines.
 In the early 1950's, he made a discovery that helps prevent influenza. He detected a pattern of genetic changes that the influenza virus undergoes as it mutates. The phenomenon is known as drift (minor changes) and shift (major changes). Vaccine manufacturers take account of drift in choosing the strains of influenza virus included in the vaccines that are freshly made each influenza season.
 Shifts can herald a large outbreak or pandemic of influenza, and Dr. Hilleman was the first to detect the shift that caused the 1957 Asian influenza pandemic. He read an article in The New York Times on April 17, 1957, about influenza among infants in Hong Kong -- cases that had escaped detection from the worldwide influenza surveillance systems.
 Dr. Hilleman, who directed the central laboratory for worldwide military influenza surveillance, was sure that the cases represented the advent of an influenza pandemic. So he immediately sent for specimens from Hong Kong and helped isolate a new strain of influenza virus.
 Dr. Hilleman also demanded that breeders keep roosters that would otherwise have been slaughtered so they could fertilize enough eggs to prepare 40 million doses of influenza to protect Americans against the 1957 influenza strain.
 Dr. Hilleman stood 6-foot-1, wore reading glasses that rested on the tip of his nose and described himself as a renegade. He often participated in scientific meetings, where he could be irascible while amusing his colleagues with profane asides.
 At one of many meetings with this physician-reporter, a Thanksgiving Day dinner during a conference at the World Health Organization in Geneva in the 1980's, Dr. Hilleman said he was driven by a goal to get rid of disease and by a belief that scientists had to serve society. 
 At Merck, he played a major role in the hierarchy and had direct control over his research.
 Maurice Ralph Hilleman was born on Aug. 30, 1919, in Miles City, Mont. His mother and twin sister died during his birth.
 In 1937, he went to work in the local J.C. Penney's store where he helped cowpokes, as he described his customers, pick out chenille bathrobes for their girlfriends, and he was well on the way to a career in retailing until his oldest brother suggested that he go to college.
 After graduating from Montana State University in 1941, he received his Ph.D. in microbiology from the University of Chicago and then joined E.R. Squibb & Sons. There, he developed a vaccine against Japanese B encephalitis to protect American troops in the World War II Pacific offensive.
 In 1948, he moved to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and stayed until 1957, when Vannevar Bush, then chairman of Merck and a former director of the federal Office of Scientific Research and Development in World War II, persuaded him to direct a virus research program for the drug company. 
 After retiring as senior vice president for Merck research laboratories in 1984, Dr. Hilleman continued to work on vaccines, saying they were needed for at least 20 diseases, including AIDS.
 Dr. Hilleman is survived by his wife, Lorraine, a retired nurse; two daughters, Jeryl Lynn of Palo Alto, Calif., and Kirsten J. of New York City; two brothers, Victor, of Fontana, Calif., and Norman, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
 His daughter Jeryl Lynn is at least in part responsible for the mumps vaccine. In 1963, when her salivary glands started to swell with the disease, Dr. Hilleman swabbed her throat and went on to isolate the virus. He then weakened it and within four years had produced the now-standard mumps vaccine. The weakened strain bears her name.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1983)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (91%); PATHOLOGY (90%); MUMPS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MEASLES (90%); MENINGITIS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); CHICKEN POX (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PNEUMONIA (90%); LIVER DISEASE (89%); MMR VACCINE (89%); HEPATITIS (89%); HEPATITIS B (89%); BACTERIA (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); CANCER (89%); RUBELLA (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); VIROLOGY (78%); VIRUSES (78%); HEPATITIS A (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (76%); POULTRY (76%); VETERINARY DRUGS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BIOLOGICS MFG (73%); ALLERGIES (73%); DEAFNESS (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (72%) Medicine and Health; Deaths (Obituaries); Vaccination and Immunization; Mumps; Measles; Chickenpox; Pneumonia; Meningitis; Biographical Information; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY & INFECTIOUS DISEASES (56%)

Lawrence K Altman; Maurice R (Dr) Hilleman

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



230 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: Step by Step

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
EMPLOYERS are slashing their fixed-benefit pension plans. Cuts in Social Security are being proposed. Americans understand that the only way to retire comfortably is to save much more money. So why don't we? 
 This behavioral quirk has long stumped mainstream economists, who tend to assume that people are generally rational beings who have read the Aesop fable about the ant and the grasshopper and understand the virtues of thrift.
 Yet over the last couple of years, researchers from fields as disparate as economics, psychology and neuroscience have come together to shed new light on the problem. Armed with brain scans and economic models, they are finding that the reluctance to set aside for tomorrow may be rooted in traits that were carved by evolution, hard-wiring our brain to prefer immediate gratification. The research also suggests that, when properly re-engineered, our behavioral peculiarities can be harnessed to make us save more. 
 We save remarkably little for a society that views a golden-age retirement as a right. Fewer than two-thirds of Americans own a tax-deferred savings account like an individual retirement account or a job-based 401(k) plan. Of those who do, many contribute much less than they need. 
 In an appearance before the Senate Special Committee on Aging in March, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said that absent a raise in payroll taxes, by the middle of this century Social Security benefits would amount to 30 percent of a typical worker's last wage -- down from 42 percent today. To replace 80 percent of pre-retirement income, as financial advisers recommend, workers will therefore need much more in the piggy bank. 
 Yet by 2001, the last time the Federal Reserve Board conducted its broad survey of consumer finances, a typical worker 55 to 64 years old had $42,000 in his 401(k) and I.R.A.'s, about enough for an annuity payment of $200 a month.
 Some people do better than others, of course. William G. Gale of the Brookings Institution argues that about a third of workers are on track, salting away enough for a comfortable retirement. Yet another third have clearly not saved enough for a penury-free retirement. The middle third, mostly younger workers, could go either way.
 We know we are doing something wrong. In one survey of workers, the economists David Laibson and James J. Choi of Harvard and Brigitte C. Madrian of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania found that while 68 percent of respondents reported saving too little, only 24 percent said they would increase contributions to their 401(k), and only 3 percent actually did it within four months. 
 ''It is not a question of education,'' said Stephen Utkus, director of the Vanguard Center for Retirement Research. ''It is a question of acting on the knowledge you have.''
 What's wrong with everyone? Many people are simply befuddled by the arithmetic of retirement saving, clueless about how much they need to save. But the complexity of the decision cannot alone explain such procrastination. Indeed, new research suggests that we are just less rational than we have been led to believe. 
 The life-cycle theory of savings, a mainstay of standard economics, says that we act rationally to even out our consumption -- saving when we're young to consume when we're old -- coolly maximizing our economic well-being over our lifetimes.
 But many people do not really behave that way. In fact, we exhibit lots of foibles that make little sense.
 For instance, we value the $100 that we may lose more highly than the $100 we may win, a concept that economists call loss aversion. This helps explain why we can hate losses, though be willing to suffer opportunity costs -- that is, foregone future earnings -- even when the two are economically equal.
 This eccentricity on its own could cut into our retirement savings, making us reluctant to lose income today in exchange for a future reward. But our economic inconsistencies run deeper. If given a choice today between doing 10 hours of awful work on May 1, or 12 hours on May 15, virtually everyone would prefer the 10 hours. But come April 30, we pick the 12 hours, exhibiting an overweighting of immediate rewards and costs that scholars call hyperbolic discounting. Last year, Mr. Laibson and his fellow economist George Loewenstein of Carnegie Mellon University, together with Jonathan D. Cohen and Samuel M. McClure of Princeton's Center for the Study of Brain, Mind and Behavior studied brain scans of people choosing between rewards at different points in time. The scans suggested that decisions were made in two areas of the brain. One is the lateral prefrontal cortex, a system that developed as humans began to split off from apes, which evaluates trade-offs between abstract rewards. The other is the more primitive limbic system, designed to respond to immediate stimuli, which humans share with other mammals. 
 Mr. Laibson said that this research was in its early stages, but he noted that it was compelling. It suggests that this primitive brain structure, which developed to deal with immediate contingencies like a charging rhinoceros, tends to drive many of our decisions. 
 ''It seems to drive a lot of indulgent behaviors,'' Mr. Laibson said.
 Among them is the procrastinating, spend-now-don't-worry-about-tomorrow ethos that guides our approach to saving. Understanding this psychological undertow is helping economists create new saving methods that take advantage of our behavioral quirks. 
 ''The biggest driver of savings behavior is inertia,'' said Brian Tarbox, president of the Tarbox Group, a firm that helps fund providers devise pension plans. ''Inertia, engineered in the right way, can be used to the benefit of participants.''
 The required engineering is straightforward: it just requires flipping people's choices. Rather than offering workers the opportunity to save, companies are automatically enrolling them in savings plans and offering them the chance to opt out. 
 Ms. Madrian and Dennis F. Shea of the UnitedHealth Group studied savings patterns in one company that switched from optional to automatic enrollment. Before the switch, enrollment among newly hired workers was 37 percent. After the switch, it jumped to 86 percent. The change was most drastic among lower-income workers, who need to increase their savings the most. The 401(k) enrollment among newly hired workers earning $20,000 to $29,000 rose to 83 percent from 25 percent.
 Automatic enrollment has drawbacks. Procrastinating workers will stick to the default savings rate set by the company, even workers who would have saved more on their own. They will also stay with the default asset allocation -- even when the company merely dumped the savings into a money-market fund offering very low returns.
 ''The key to defaults is that defaults are sticky,'' Ms. Madrian said. ''People are going to stick at the default.''
 One alternative is to force people to make a choice. Ms. Madrian, Mr. Laibson and Mr. Choi found that forcing workers to choose whether they want to join a 401(k) plan, instead of just giving them the option to do so, also increased participation rates radically.
 Two economists, Richard H. Thaler of the University of Chicago and Shlomo Benartzi of the University of California, Los Angeles, have a different method, which they call Save More Tomorrow, or Smart. The idea is to offer workers the option to start saving in the future and increase their contribution rate by a set amount every year, say, 1 or 2 percent of their wages, to a preset limit. 
 This device helps overcome hyperbolic discounting. Just like the chunkier among us have an easier time signing up for a diet at a later time rather than starting one immediately, workers are more likely to agree to bite the savings bullet if it is deferred. 
 In one pilot tracked by the economists, workers' average contribution to their 401(k) plans rose from 3.5 percent of their wage before joining the Smart plan to 13.6 percent four years after signing up to the new method. 
 These ideas are gaining traction in the financial industry. 
 The fund manager Vanguard, for instance, has about 180 corporate 401(k) plans on a new program that lets workers sign up for automatic annual contribution increases; it also has 50 plans on automatic enrollment and three companies that have chosen both. 
 One that is signing on to the full package is BHP Billiton, a mining company that is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia. According to Dan Helman, who is responsible for retirement plans in the United States and Canada, BHP Billiton signed up first for automatic enrollment, then it started offering employees Vanguard's managed account option, under which Vanguard actively manages the asset allocation. This month it should begin making the automatic annual increase available, too. 
 The results, so far, are encouraging. ''Participation rates in the 401(k) were about 70 percent before,'' Mr. Helman said. ''Now there are only two people out of more than 2,000 who are not on the 401(k).''
 It is too soon to say whether this tinkering with our limbic system will truly make us close the savings gap. For one, only half of all workers have a company savings plan. Tinkering with 401(k) structures does nothing for the other half.
 ''How much of a solution this is will depend on how soon people take this up,'' Mr. Thaler said. ''If we reach people early enough this would be a pretty good solution.''
 But if this rejiggering of incentives proves insufficient, the new behavioral insights could spur a wave of interest in finding other solutions. ''I can see enormous interest in the pharmaceutical sector to design a neurochemical intervention mechanism to avoid temptation,'' Mr. Laibson said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Mirko Ilic)(pg. G1)
 (Photo by Mirko Illic)(pg. G8)Chart: ''How Much Americans Save, More or Less''Reported total savings and investments, not including value of primary residence.ALL WORKERSLESS THAN $25,000: 52%$25,000-49,999: 1350,000-99,999: 11100,000- 249,999: 12250,000 OR MORE: 11BY AGE: 25-34LESS THAN $25,000: 70$25,000-49,999: 1250,000-99,999: 9100,000- 249,999: 5250,000 OR MORE: 4BY AGE: 35-44LESS THAN $25,000: 50$25,000-49,999: 1450,000-99,999: 15100,000- 249,999: 10250,000 OR MORE: 10BY AGE: 45-54LESS THAN $25,000: 41$25,000-49,999: 1350,000-99,999: 14100,000- 249,999: 17250,000 OR MORE: 1655+LESS THAN $25,000: 39$25,000-49,999: 750,000-99,999: 12100,000- 249,999: 23250,000 OR MORE: 19Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.(Source by Employee Benefit Research Institute)(pg. G8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BRAIN (75%); AGING (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



231 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld, in Iraq, Warns of Pitfalls for Leaders

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Tuesday, April 12 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld landed in Iraq just before dawn on Tuesday, bearing warnings for the country's new leaders of government corruption and civil turbulence that could delay a constitution and national elections.
 Mr. Rumsfeld's surprise visit, which was not announced in advance because of security concerns, is to include meetings with Jalal Talabani, the Kurdish militia leader who is the new president, and with Ibrahim al-Jaafari, the leader of a Shiite religious party who has been nominated to be prime minister. The daylong trip to Iraq will allow Mr. Rumsfeld to conduct the first face-to-face meetings by an American cabinet secretary with the new leaders since they were chosen. 
 Administration officials have voiced concerns that Iraq could fall prey to political purges motivated by religion, ethnicity, tribal or political affiliations that could upset the careful balance being built.
 In particular, Mr. Rumsfeld is expected to emphasize during his visit here that competence should be rewarded among those Iraqis already at jobs organizing, training and equipping security forces within the Interior and Defense Ministries, and that unnecessary personnel changes could hobble stabilization efforts now under way.
 Aboard a C-17 cargo plane that flew nonstop from Andrews Air Force Base, Mr. Rumsfeld was asked about suggestions from some Iraqis about postponing a political process that now calls for writing a constitution by August and holding a referendum on it in October, setting the stage for nationwide elections in December. The transitional law under which the government is being formed does allow a six-month delay.
 However, Mr. Rumsfeld warned en route here that any brake on the political process could imperil the security and reconstruction mission in Iraq, because such delays ''have the effect of creating questions and uncertainties about the progress of the political process.''
 It is important, he said, for the Iraqi people ''to see progress on the political side.'' 
 ''They've got to see progress on the economic side,'' he added. ''They've got to see that the Iraqi security forces are taking over their responsibility and that the presence of coalition forces is not something that is going to go on forever.''
 As is his policy in public, he refused to predict when Iraq might be safe enough to allow a significant withdrawal of the approximately 140,000 American troops here.
 Mr. Rumsfeld also declined to assert whether Iraq had reached any kind of ''tipping point.'' But he did say larger numbers of undecided Iraqis, and even some previously hostile ones, were being persuaded to take up the cause of the new government.
 He pointed to ''the fact that after the elections, the winners did not try to get even, but rather tried to reach out,'' and to ''the fact that the people who made the mistake of sitting it out now understand it was a mistake and are leaning forward to get in.''
 ''All those things are good signs,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (79%); AIR FORCES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RELIGION (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); ETHNICITY (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Politics and Government; Elections; Constitutions; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JALAL TALABANI (73%) Thom Shanker; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Ibrahim Al- Jaafari; Jalal Talabani

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



232 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slip as Oil Rises and Investors Wait Cautiously

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks and the Nasdaq composite index declined slightly yesterday as crude oil prices rebounded late in the session and a profit warning from Ford Motor weighed on the auto sector.
 In a lackluster day's trading marked by low volume, traders cited caution before the release today of the minutes from the March 22 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.
 Investors will be watching for any hints that more aggressive interest rate increases may be in store from the Federal Reserve, which has raised rates seven times since June.
 The late rebound in oil futures prices acted as a damper on the stock market. Crude for delivery in May settled up 39 cents at $53.71 a barrel, increasing concerns about weaker consumer spending and corporate profits. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 12.78, or 0.1 percent, to close at 10,448.56. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up a mere 0.01, to 1,181.21. The Nasdaq composite index was down 7.23, or 0.4 percent, to 1,992.12.
 ''All we've really been doing is going sideways,'' said Paul Cherney, chief market analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''There's a little bit of caution ahead of tomorrow's F.O.M.C. minutes,'' he said.
 ''There's low volume and that's telling you that the sidelines are packed with people waiting for some sort of a headline to act as an inspiration telling them to buy or sell,'' Mr. Cherney said.
 Trading was moderate, with 1.22 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, below the 1.46 billion daily average for last year. 
 Investors were also looking ahead to the coming slew of earnings, some of which are expected this week.
 Among stocks falling was Ford, the No.2 American automaker, which slid 5.4 percent, or 59 cents, to $10.44, after it cut its 2005 earnings forecast late Friday and warned that it no longer expected to reach its 2006 profit goal.
 Shares of General Motors, which cut its 2005 earnings forecast last month, closed down 25 cents, or almost 0.9 percent, at $29.25. Auto parts makers were hurt, including Visteon, which receives about 70 percent of its revenue from Ford. Shares of Visteon fell nearly 5 percent, or 27 cents, to $5.23.
 ''Ford preannounced after the close on Friday and that pulled that whole group down, but I don't think that's any big surprise, given what G.M.'s been saying,'' said Todd Clark, head of listed trading at Wells Fargo Securities.
 Apple Computer, maker of the iPod digital music players and Macintosh computers, dragged on the Nasdaq, falling 4.2 percent, or $1.82, to $41.92. Apple is scheduled to report second-quarter results tomorrow and expectations are high for the company, which in January reported quarterly profit that exceeded even the highest Wall Street forecasts. 
 Shares of Starbucks declined 2.3 percent, or $1.11, to $47.51, amid worry that the stock was overvalued and the days of supercharged sales increases were over. Last Wednesday, the company reported a less-than-expected 6 percent gain in March same-store sales.
 Shares of Procter & Gamble rose 1.5 percent, or 84 cents, to $55.34 after the company raised its quarterly dividend 12 percent. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 10/32, to a price of 96 19/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.43 percent from 4.47 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of the auction of three-month and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.314	98.450	High Rate	2.710	3.065	Investment Rate	2.767	3.156	Low Rate	2.700	3.030	Median Rate	2.700	3.055	Total applied for	$53,462,485	$39,326,921	Accepted	$23,330,901	$20,510,884	Noncompetitive	$1,674,091	$1,112,116	

Both issues are dated April 14, 2005. The three-month bills mature on July 14, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 13, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FUTURES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (56%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); VISTEON CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (52%); VC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



233 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Falling Fortunes of the Wage Earner; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Average Pay Dipped Last Year for First Time in Nearly a Decade

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Beginning in the mid-1990's, pay increases for most workers slowly but steadily outpaced the rate of inflation, improving the living standards for nearly all Americans. But an unexpected reversal last year in those gains has set off a vigorous debate among economists over whether the decline is just a temporary dip or portends a deeper shift that may cause the pay of average Americans to lag for years to come.
 Even though the economy added 2.2 million jobs in 2004 and produced strong growth in corporate profits, wages for the average worker fell for the year, after adjusting for inflation -- the first such drop in nearly a decade.
 ''Pay increases are not rebounding, even though the factors normally associated with higher pay have rebounded,'' said Peter LeBlanc of Sibson Consulting, a division of Segal, a human resources consulting firm.
 The problem is not with the jobs themselves. Most economists dismiss as overblown the widespread fear that the number of jobs will shrink in the United States because of foreign competition from China, India and other developing nations. But at the same time many of these economists argue that the increasing exposure of the American economy to globalization, along with other forces -- including soaring health insurance costs that leave less money for raises -- is putting pressure on wages that could leave millions of workers worse off. 
 ''We're in for a long period where inflation-adjusted wages will be under acute pressure,'' said Stephen S. Roach of Morgan Stanley. ''That's a most unusual development in a period of high productivity growth. Normally, real wages track productivity.''
 But some economists are more optimistic, saying that the wage sluggishness is temporary and that real wages have slipped only because a sudden spike in oil prices has briefly left workers behind the curve. These economists assert that wage stagnation will end soon, as normal growth brings a tighter labor market. 
 ''What we're seeing now is not atypical; employers can't pay the wage bill to keep up with the oil price increase,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University. ''I think the long-term trend will be that wages will right themselves and look like productivity growth on average.''
 The most commonly used yardstick of wages -- the Bureau of Labor Statistics' measure of nonsupervisory private-sector workers, covering 80 percent of the labor force -- fell 0.5 percent last year, after inflation. Real wages for these workers are now lower, on average, than two years ago. A broader measure, the employment cost index, which includes supervisors, managers and most government workers, dropped 0.9 percent.
 At a Sprint call center in North Carolina, 180 customer service representatives are well aware of how such forces are squeezing them. Their jobs have not migrated overseas, but the employees just concluded their most bruising battle ever over wages.
 The Sprint workers in Fayetteville emerged from negotiations that lasted months with a contract that left them with a pay freeze for last year and no definite increase for 2005. While the best performers are promised 2 percent merit raises, even those are likely to lag inflation.
 ''It's like their wages are in a severe coma,'' said Rocky Barnes, president of the union local. ''Sprint said they had to restrain wages because the company's performance wasn't so good, but we think a lot of it has to do with offshoring.''
 Sandra J. Price, a Sprint vice president, took issue with union leaders. She said Sprint sought the freeze not because of low-wage competition overseas, but because benefit costs were soaring and the company felt the call center's compensation was generous for the area.
 Whatever the explanation for Sprint's action, many economists, liberal and conservative, are perplexed by two unusual trends. Wage growth has trailed far behind productivity growth over the last four years, and the share of national income going to employee compensation is low by historic standards.
 Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley said wages were being held down by foreign competition; corporations that are moving jobs offshore; the uncertainty of businesses over demand; and management's ability to substitute computers and other devices to replace workers. 
 ''These factors aren't going to go away,'' he said. ''The competitive pressures for companies to hold the line on labor costs are intense, and the alternatives they have -- technological substitution and offshoring labor -- are growing.''
 The overall wage figures hide a split, with an elite group getting relatively large gains. In a study of census data, the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, found that for the bottom 95 percent of workers, after-inflation wages were flat or down in 2004, but for the top 5 percent, wages rose by an average of 1 percent, with some gaining much more.
 The upper-income group enjoyed strong pay increases largely because of bonuses, stock options and other inducements and because of robust demand in certain fields, like law and investment banking.
 J. Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said that current wage patterns, while perhaps only temporary, did not conform to traditional economic explanations.
 ''You'd think that with the unemployment rate near 5 percent and productivity growth so strong, employers would be anxious to raise payrolls and would have plenty of headroom to raise wages,'' he said. ''But they're not.''
 Since 2001, when the recovery began, productivity growth has averaged 4.1 percent a year; overall compensation -- wages and benefits -- has risen about one-third as fast, by 1.5 percent a year on average. By contrast, over the previous seven business cycles, productivity rose by 2.5 percent a year on average while compensation rose roughly three-fourths as fast, by 1.8 percent a year. 
 ''The question is not whether corporations are seeking higher profits; the question is how come they're getting them to such a degree at the expense of compensation,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. ''I'm struck at how successful they've been at restraining labor costs.''
 Labor unions' declining bargaining power has given corporations a stronger hand to hold down wages, he argued, but more recent trends, including the emergence of Wal-Mart Stores as a central force in the economy, now play crucial roles, too.
 Laurie Piazza, a Safeway cashier in Santa Clara, Calif., said she reluctantly voted to approve a pay freeze in the first two years of her union's three-year contract because Safeway insisted that it needed to hold down costs to compete with Wal-Mart. Her take-home pay will fall $20 a week because the contract reduces the premium for working on Sundays to 33 percent of regular pay, from 50 percent. 
 ''We tried to get weekly pay increases, but the company wouldn't do it,'' said Ms. Piazza, who earns $19 an hour after 18 years on the job. ''I think Wal-Mart has a lot to do with this. They're setting the model.''
 With Wal-Mart moving aggressively into California with supercenters, Safeway officials say they need to clamp down on what they consider high labor costs to meet the challenge.
 Last year's double-digit rise in health costs helped squeeze wages as well; many companies also required employees to cover more of the premiums out of their own pay.
 ''Benefit costs are rising fairly substantially, and that may explain the tendency to hold down wages,'' said Sylvester J. Schieber of Watson Wyatt, a human resources consulting firm. ''If you throw an extra 10 percent into your health plan, that can suck 1 percent out of your budget for compensation.'' 
 Many executives say they are offering raises that do not exceed inflation. Pitney Bowes, which provides mail and document-management systems, plans to offer merit raises averaging 3 percent this year, about equal to the expected inflation rate, compared with recent merit raises, also in line with inflation, averaging 2 percent to 2.5 percent. 
 ''The past couple of years we've maintained a moderation of our wages,'' said Johnna G. Torsone, the company's chief human resources officer, who noted that the company has had to greatly increase spending on health and pensions.
 While agreeing that these factors are important, Richard B. Freeman, a Harvard economist, predicted that new competition in the form of millions of skilled Chinese, Indian and other Asian workers entering the global labor market will increasingly pull down American wages. 
 ''Globalization is going to make it harder for American workers to have the wage increases and the benefits that we might have expected,'' he said. 
 Facing intense foreign competition, Delphi, the auto parts manufacturer, has decided against any merit raises this year for its salaried workers. And at its air bag and door panel factory in Vandalia, Ohio, it persuaded unionized workers to accept a three-year pay freeze, warning that the plant would be closed otherwise.
 ''The majority of workers felt they had to agree to this,'' said Earl Shepard of the United Steelworkers local in Vandalia. ''People here say the big problem is competition from Asia.''
 Lindsey C. Williams, a Delphi spokesman, said the company was seeking to keep the Vandalia factory ''viable'' and was working with the union. 
 Many economists say the nation may be returning to a period like 1973 to 1996, when inflation-adjusted wages stagnated or rose glacially. That era was a reversal from the golden years of 1947 to 1973, when wages marched steadily upward.
 From 1996 to 2001, wages grew strongly again because of an unusually low jobless rate, caused in part by the high-technology boom. In the late 1990's, the tight labor market pressured companies to give sizable raises to attract and retain workers even as a surge in productivity helped business afford them without substantially cutting into profits.
 Thomas A. Kochan, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said wages could once again rise, but only if there was especially robust economic growth.
 ''To produce real wage gains now, it takes sustaining a very tight labor market,'' he said. ''Without that, we're going to continue to see what we're seeing now: abysmal growth in real wages.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Laurie Piazza, a Safeway cashier in Santa Clara, Calif., said she reluctantly voted to approve a pay freeze in the first two years of a three-year contract. (Photo by Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times)Graph: ''Cheaper Labor''Employee compensation fell in the last three quarters of 2004.Graph tracks cost of labor
 Yearly change in the employment cost index, quarterly, adjusted for inflation since 1982.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics via the Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C10)Graph: ''Slipping Pay''Change in hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls, adjusted for inflation.Graph tracks Recessions since 1981. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); STATISTICS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); CALL CENTERS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



234 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Trade Surplus in China Hit $5.7 Billion in March

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
China's trade surplus widened in March as manufacturers shipped more clothes, electronics and machinery to the United States and Europe.
 The surplus reached $5.7 billion, up from $4.4 billion in February and rebounding from a $630 million deficit in March 2004. Exports rose 33 percent from a year earlier, to $60.9 billion, after gaining 37 percent in the first two months of the year, the official Xinhua news agency said yesterday. 
 ''China's exports are benefiting from a competitive currency, outsourcing by foreign companies and the dismantling of global quotas on textiles,'' said Rob Subbaraman, senior Asia economist at Lehman Brothers in Tokyo.
 China's imports increased 19 percent, to $55.1 billion in March, after rising 8.3 percent in the first two months of the year. Growth has slowed from 37 percent last year amid a government clampdown on industrial expansion.
 A widening trade surplus is helping sustain growth in China, the second-largest economy in Asia, as the government restricts industrial expansion to keep inflation in check. Lawmakers in the United States, which had a record $162 billion trade deficit with China last year, are debating a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese imports.
 The tariff is being considered after calls by the United States for China to limit its exports and relax the yuan's peg to the dollar had little impact. 
 China's exports of high-technology products rose 26 percent in the first quarter, the vice minister of commerce, Wei Jianguo, said at a news conference in Beijing yesterday, to 84 billion yuan ($10.16 billion) in the period, accounting for about 29 percent of total exports.
 China's textile exports, which are surging after quotas were abolished on Jan. 1, rose 29 percent in the first three months of this year, with sales to the United States almost quadrupling in the period, the commerce ministry said on its Web site earlier yesterday. The United States and the European Union have said they might impose caps on imports of Chinese clothing.
 ''The fight is just beginning on this front,'' said David L. Cohen, director of Asian economic forecasting at Action Economics in Singapore. ''But even if China adjusts its exchange rate as some politicians are demanding, it won't remove the competitiveness of Chinese exports.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TEXTILES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); EURO (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); WEB SITES (50%) International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); JAPAN (56%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



235 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: GOODYEAR SECURES LOWER-INTEREST LOANS AND CREDIT LINES

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company said yesterday that it had secured $3.65 billion in new loans and credit lines to replace $3.28 billion of financing with higher interest rates. The new borrowings run through at least 2010, replacing debt with higher rates expiring in 2005, 2006 and 2007, Goodyear said. J.P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas last month offered Goodyear lower interest margins on most of its loans after the tire manufacturer reported on March 16 its first full-year profit since 2000, people close to the transaction said last month. Goodyear is based in Akron, Ohio.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TIRES (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (88%); TIRE MFG (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (84%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (94%); GT (NASDAQ) (94%); GT (BRU) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (94%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (94%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (94%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (94%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



236 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: West Street Tunnel Plan

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I am heartened that Goldman, Sachs & Company's qualms about the proposal to build a traffic bypass at West Street, endorsed by Gov. George E. Pataki, have drawn attention to this project (''Goldman Plans at Ground Zero Are in Doubt,'' news article, April 5). 
 The residents of Lower Manhattan have vociferously objected to this $860 million proposal for years, particularly since a $175 million surface restoration would resolve traffic problems just as well. Unfortunately, after encouraging residents to remain downtown after Sept. 11, the government has continually dismissed their concerns.
 The governor too often forgets that Lower Manhattan is not just an economic center. It is also a residential neighborhood. While commercial and residential needs and desires often conflict, here there is a remarkable convergence of opinion between Goldman and area residents. Both sides agree that this proposal is a dangerous, unnecessary boondoggle.

Deborah J. Glick
Member of Assembly, 66th Dist.
New York, April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



237 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Has Nuclear Power's Time Come?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nuclear power's unsolved spent-fuel problem disqualifies it as a responsible person's energy solution. 
 Multiplying fuel dumps from a nuclear ramp-up would become an inheritance just as unwanted as coal's atmospheric impact. 
 Nicholas D. Kristof should concentrate his fire on insincere regulation of consumption. 
 President Bush wants a perpetual hunt for new sources amid conservation efforts that amount to little more than moralistic abjurations. 
 The world is striving for economic parity, implying a vast increase in greenhouse emissions or an unpalatable proliferation of nuclear capability. An America of mandated conservation, imposing taxes (at meaningful levels) on the full panoply of emitters and related culprits (family cars, fast food, tract houses and discount boxes in cornfields) would set a standard to which the rest of the world might reasonably respond.
 Or America can keep on behaving like an addict, its house strewn with dead soldiers.

Richard Wolfe
Cumberland, Me., April 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); EMISSIONS (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



238 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Bush Gives Sharon's Plan Both Support and Criticism
President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel differed over Israel's intention to expand a settlement in the West Bank, but Mr. Bush gave the Israeli leader backing for his plan to withdraw from Gaza. A1

Nominee Rebuts Accusations
John R. Bolton, rebutting attacks from Democrats on his fitness to serve as ambassador to the United Nations, pledged to bring about a partnership with the organization and denied ever trying to have anyone dismissed for disagreeing with him on intelligence matters. A1

Border Settled for Trade's Sake
China and India announced an agreement to resolve a decades-old border dispute and let trade flourish between them. A9

Islam Issue Awaits New Pope
Many cardinals mentioned as candidates to be the next pope have expressed positions on Islam, and on how confrontational the Roman Catholic Church should be with Muslims. A14

Insurgents Raided in Baghdad
Hundreds of Iraqi troops and commandos backed by American soldiers swept through Baghdad capturing at least 65 suspected insurgents in one of the largest raids in the capital since the fall of Saddam Hussein, military officials said. A6

Confused Response to Virus
The confusion over the diagnosis of the Marburg virus in Angola says much about the state of African health care and reflects the chaos and common misery of a continent with the lowest life expectancy rate in the world. A3

NATIONAL A15-19

U.S. Accuses 15 States Of Medicaid Improprieties
The Bush administration named 15 states that it said had used improper accounting techniques to obtain excessive amounts of federal Medicaid money. A15

Bomb Scare at U.S. Capitol
Police officers tackled and forcibly removed a man who was carrying two suitcases near the Capitol, saying he was uncooperative when they sought to question him. The authorities feared that he might be a suicide bomber. A16

Trial Opens in Grenade Attack
An Army sergeant charged with killing two officers and wounding 14 others in a grenade attack on his own camp in Kuwait was mentally ill and acted not out of premeditation but desperation, his lawyer said. A15

Dementia Patients at Risk
Elderly patients with dementia who are given antipsychotic medicines are almost twice as likely to die prematurely as those given placebo treatments, federal drug regulators said. A17

Pet Projects Pack Spending Bill
Senators seized on a rare chance to pack pet projects into a supplemental military spending bill put forth by President Bush, adding provisions on oil drilling, a new baseball stadium for Washington and economic aid to Palestinians. A18

Panel Hears Silicone Debate
A federal advisory panel heard from many women on both sides of the debate over silicone breast implants. Some women argued that the implants, whose use is restricted, should be more broadly available. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Videos Contradict Claims Of Convention Disorder
Videos taken by private citizens and police officers have shifted the debate over precisely what happened on the streets of New York during the Republican National Convention. For at least 400 people arrested that week, recordings have provided persuasive evidence that they did not commit a crime, prosecutors and defense lawyers say. A1

Gambling Riches Fade
New York State's plan to rely on gambling parlors full of slot-machine-like video lottery terminals to help finance increases in education aid is not paying off nearly as much as officials had hoped, state data shows. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Clinton Starts AIDS Drug Plan
Former President Bill Clinton said that children in 10 countries would get inexpensive AIDS drugs under a plan negotiated by his foundation. F2

Health & Fitness F7

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-8

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B6-7

Archbishop Iakovos
Primate of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese in North and South America for 37 years, he was 93. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Ex-A.I.G. Head Not Talking
Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chairman of American International Group who is at the center of a wide-ranging investigation into possible financial manipulation, plans to exercise his right against self-incrimination and will not answer regulators' questions today, his lawyer said. A1

Economists Debate Wages
The decline in wages for the average worker last year has set off a debate among economists over whether the decline is just a temporary dip or portends a deeper shift that may cause the pay of average Americans to lag for years to come. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Guilty until proven innocent; a new attack on women's sports; strength in number crunchers; the old curiosity mall.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
Weather D7
TV Listings E9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); DEMENTIA (87%); MEDICAID (86%); LEGISLATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); TROPICAL DISEASES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ARMIES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); BASEBALL (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); AGING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ANGOLA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



239 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: India and China Agree to Resolve Decades of Border Disputes

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 11 

 BODY:
China and India agreed Monday to resolve a decades-old border dispute and let trade flourish between the countries. 
 Promising a new era of ''peace and prosperity'' between the world's two most populous countries, the announcement came during a four-day visit to India by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China. 
 It signaled an end to a protracted dispute over several patches along the 2,200-mile border between the countries, stretching from Kashmir to Myanmar. China defeated India in a war over territory in 1962, and relations have been fraught for four decades. 
 The two countries have reached ''a certain level of maturity,'' India's foreign secretary, Shyam Saran, said at a news conference here. ''India and China are partners, and they are not rivals,'' he added. ''We do not look upon each other as adversaries.'' 
 The announcement did not spell out which territory would go to which country, but the two countries did agree to come up with a plan to resolve disputes over frontier territory. Each side has troops along the border, but there have not been any recent skirmishes. 
 Despite the border dispute, relations between India and China -- both nuclear powers, both witnessing rapid economic growth, both facing an enormous demand for energy -- have flourished in recent years, led primarily by trade. China is now India's second-largest trading partner, after the United States.
 On Monday Mr. Wen and his Indian counterpart, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, said the two countries expected to increase bilateral trade from $13 billion last year to at least $20 billion in 2008. 
 Chinese-made toys, toasters and televisions have proliferated across the Indian marketplace. India exports raw materials for China's booming construction industry.
 ''Aware of their linked destinies as neighbors and the two largest countries of Asia, both sides agreed that they would, together, contribute to the establishment of an atmosphere of mutual understanding, trust and cooperation in Asia and the world at large,'' read a joint statement. 
 India reiterated in the statement that it believed Tibet to be a part of Chinese territory; Tibetans, led by the Dalai Lama, have clamored for independence for decades. China in turn has recognized Sikkim, a tiny Himalayan finger poking into Tibet, as Indian territory. Annexed by India 30 years ago, Sikkim had been represented as an independent country until recently. 
 To drive the point home, Mr. Saran produced an official Chinese map showing Sikkim as part of India, ''the same color wash as the rest of India.'' 
 India declared that it had China's backing for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council -- arguably India'a principal foreign policy objective this year -- but the joint statement was less than explicit. 
 ''China attaches great importance to the status of India in international affairs,'' the statement read. ''It understands and supports India's aspirations to play an active role in the U.N. and international affairs.'' 
 Beyond the delicately worded statement and a brief appearance by Mr. Wen, the Chinese delegation did not make itself available to journalists, making it impossible to clarify its position on India's effort to gain a permanent seat or anything else. 
 Twelve separate agreements were signed during the visit, ranging from the border issues, to cooperation on filmmaking, to the export of Indian bitter gourds and grapes to China. 
 India and China also agreed to expand flights between the countries, and to military exchanges to enhance ''mutual trust'' between their armed forces. They also agreed to engage in joint exploration for oil and gas in other countries.
 What India did not mention were agreements that China has made with India's neighbors and rivals, from building road links with Bangladesh to financing a deep-sea port in Pakistan. Senior Chinese officials also visited the king of Nepal, even after he ousted his government and declared emergency rule on Feb.1, a move India strongly condemned.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China with his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh, at the opening of a Chinese cultural event yesterday in New Delhi. The visit built on improved relations between the countries. (Photo by Prakash Singh/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Map of India and China highlighting disputed border-regions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) International Relations; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (89%); MANMOHAN SINGH (78%); DALAI LAMA (59%) Somini Sengupta; Wen Jiabao (Prime Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) SIKKIM, INDIA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (89%); KASHMIR (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (73%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (99%); TIBET (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MYANMAR (79%) India; China

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



240 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Black Officials See Social Security 'Race Card'

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11 

 BODY:
A group of leading black officials accused President Bush on Monday of ''playing the race card'' in efforts to promote his Social Security overhaul. 
 Julian Bond, chairman of the N.A.A.C.P., and Dennis Courtland Hayes, its acting president and chief executive, said Mr. Bush should focus on addressing the underlying health care reasons that blacks have a shorter life expectancy than whites instead of citing it as a reason to support his idea of private accounts. 
 The administration has argued that the current Social Security system is a disadvantage to blacks, maintaining that with a shorter life span, they draw less than their fair share of lifetime benefits. Under Mr. Bush's proposal, money diverted from payroll taxes into personal retirement accounts, plus earnings on that money, could be passed along as an inheritance; under the current system, survivors of people who die before retiring sometimes do not receive Social Security benefits.
 But an overhaul as envisioned by Mr. Bush would almost certainly entail a cut in the guaranteed benefits that the program has offered for seven decades.
 ''Rather than playing the race card to set Americans against Americans, we urge the administration to address the long-term problems the system faces now,'' Mr. Bond said. ''Recognizing the shorter life expectancy of people of color is commendable, but placing them further at risk is no solution.''
 Government statistics show that the average life span of a newborn black male is 69, compared with 75 for a newborn white male. But critics of Mr. Bush's plan say black mortality figures are skewed by higher death rates among black infants and blacks' higher exposure to violent crime. They cite statistics showing that by the common retirement age of 65, life expectancy of black males becomes 79.6 years, compared with 81.6 years for while males.
 ''Don't use the fact that African-Americans have a lower life expectancy as an excuse for privatization,'' said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, a former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
 Mr. Bond, Mr. Hayes and Mr. Cummings were among speakers at a news conference that opened a lobbying effort to defeat the president's plan. The White House dismissed the criticism.
 ''President Bush does have a comprehensive plan that has greatly improved health, education, homeownership and economic opportunity for all Americans, including African-Americans,'' said a White House spokesman, Trent Duffy. ''The fact is that the current system penalizes some workers who don't reach retirement age, which is one of the many loopholes that can be fixed by bringing Social Security into the 21st century.''
 Mr. Hayes, though, said the creation of private accounts could bring reductions or changes in Social Security's survivor or disability programs.
 ''We have to be concerned about mutations,'' he said, ''of changes that occur that we sometimes didn't foresee when we thought we were doing something good.''
 As examples, he said, constitutional amendments on behalf of blacks after the Civil War led to Jim Crow laws curbing black voting rights, and court decisions outlawing segregated schools led to white flight from cities and racial profiling in suburbs. 





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (88%); STATISTICS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); LOBBYING (76%); MEN (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (69%); CAUCUSES (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (84%)

PERSON: ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



241 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: United States And Europe Still Deadlocked On Jet Subsidies

BYLINE: By DON PHILLIPS and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Don Phillips reported from Paris for this article and Katrin Bennhold from Brussels. Paul Meller contributed reporting from Brussels.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, April 11 

 BODY:
A deadline to take action before the World Trade Organization came and went Monday, with the United States and the European Union instead saying they would try again to agree on what constitutes acceptable government aid to Airbus and Boeing, the trans-Atlantic rivals.
 The brinksmanship of the last few days apparently spurred both sides to make a further effort to avoid leaving the outcome of the multibillion-dollar dispute to the W.T.O. But neither side budged an inch in what has become a steadily nastier feud.
 The newest effort to negotiate leaves Airbus in limbo as to when it might apply for roughly $1.3 billion in loans for its possible new long-distance, midsize aircraft, the A350, which is intended to compete against the 787 Dreamliner that Boeing has already put into development. The Boeing plane, which has already signed up a few customers, is scheduled to enter service in 2008. 
 ''As long as no action is taken -- action at the W.T.O. or the disbursement of aid -- there is a window of opportunity to negotiate,'' said Claude Veron-Reville, a spokeswoman for the European trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson. 
 She added, however, that the European Union did not want ''this period to drag on indefinitely.'' 
 She did not elaborate, but the issue was especially pressing for Airbus, as it might want to formally introduce the A350 at the Paris air show in June, and would like clarity on government help before then.
 ''Launch aid,'' as the disputed Airbus subsidies are known, can total up to one-third of the development cost of a new aircraft. Those loans, however, do not have to be repaid until the aircraft is actually sold, which takes several years at the least. 
 Richard Mills, the spokesman for the United States trade representative's office, said Washington also was still prepared to negotiate an accord despite the expiration of the self-imposed 90-day standstill period. ''The United States continues to believe that such an agreement would be a useful solution to this important issue,'' he said. 
 But he made clear that the United States considered the only issue on the table to be soft loans from European governments for new Airbus products.
 American trade officials have repeatedly raised the possibility of going to the W.T.O. rather than broadening the talks to include issues pushed by the European Union, like Boeing's federal and state tax breaks, military contracts and government subsidies to Boeing's foreign suppliers.
 In interviews Monday, however, Mr. Mandelson insisted anew that Boeing and Washington must be prepared to make concessions. 
 ''They attack subsidy, as they call it, for Airbus, but give Boeing a free pass,'' Mr. Mandelson told the British Broadcasting Corporation. ''The fact is that both companies receive financial support from government sources, in fact Boeing more so and from more sources.''
 Bloomberg News later quoted Mr. Mandelson as saying that he thought an amicable settlement was still possible, but that Washington had to give more ground. 
 ''A very strong demand was being made on the European side to abandon immediately the entire sort of basic principles and character of all government investment in Airbus without commensurate, offsetting and balancing moves by the American side as regards Boeing,'' he said. ''That doesn't exactly make for a good negotiation.''
 Brussels argues that Boeing has received other forms of support, including government research and development funds for military aircraft and assistance from state and local governments. But Washington contends that the money Boeing has received was for legitimate military research or represented support from local governments, just like the support Airbus and other companies have received in the United States and Europe for building facilities in favorable locations. 
 Officials close to the talks say both sides clearly would prefer a negotiated settlement, rather than entrust their fate to the W.T.O. Unofficially, both sides used the phrase ''weeks or months'' to describe how long they would be prepared to discuss the situation. 
 The issue takes on added importance because Airbus is working toward an official introduction of the long-range A350, and government-backed loans could directly affect its price. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Finances; International Trade and World Market; Credit; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (85%); BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization; Airbus Industrie; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (78%) Don Phillips; Katrin Bennhold

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



242 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Retirement; SOCIAL SECURITY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Pros vs. Cons: A Guide to the Debate

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FORGET, for a moment, the rhetoric from President Bush and his Democratic opponents over Social Security.
 Like actors in a Japanese Kabuki play, both sides spar constantly over generalities but hint only vaguely about the specific choices that lie just below the surface.
 Mr. Bush warns that Social Security is going bankrupt, and campaigns for ''personal retirement accounts.'' Democrats charge that the president would shred a safety net that keeps millions of older people out of poverty. 
 But below the surface, the battles are becoming ever more specific: ''add-on'' accounts versus ''carve-out'' accounts; ''wage-indexing'' versus ''price indexing''; higher payroll taxes versus delayed retirement ages.
 The choices are often expressed in the jargon of benefit formulas and actuarial analysis. But they would lead to profoundly different results for retirees in the future.
 Here is a guide to the debate.

How Big a Problem?
 President Bush often warns about an $11 trillion deficit, and others refer to a $4 trillion deficit. Both estimates come from the Social Security program's trustees, but neither sheds much light on its own.
 The lower estimate is the projected gap between payroll tax revenues and benefit costs over the next 75 years. The $11 trillion estimate is the gap projected to infinity.
 But the long-term problem is less daunting when it is compared with the amount of money people would be earning in the future. The trustees estimate that the 75-year shortfall is equal to about 1.92 percent of projected payrolls. In other words, the shortfall could be eliminated by immediately raising payroll taxes to 14.32 percent from 12.4 percent.
 That would be a painful jump in payroll taxes -- about $960 for a person who earns $50,000 a year -- or a comparable drop in benefits. But the projected gap is smaller than the cost of making President Bush's tax cuts permanent, and it is about one-sixth the long-term gap projected for Medicare.

Looking at the Cash
 Another way to look at the problem is in terms of cash flow. The trustees project that Social Security will start running deficits in 2017, and reserves in the trust fund will be used up by 2041. Without any changes in the law, the government would have to slash benefits by about 27 percent to match up with incoming payroll taxes.
 But the cash-flow problems start much earlier, because drawing on the trust fund is different from Paris Hilton drawing on her inheritance. The government already spends the annual Social Security surpluses -- $156 billion in 2004 -- on regular government operations. If the surpluses disappear on schedule in 2017, the government will have to come up with cash equal to nearly two years of war costs in Iraq -- and more each year after that. 
 According to the Social Security trustees, the annual shortfall will exceed $1 trillion in current dollars in 2040.

How Private Accounts Work
 One crucial battle is over carve-out accounts and add-on accounts.
 Mr. Bush favors a carve-out approach, so named because the money for private accounts would be carved out of existing payroll taxes. Mr. Bush's plan would allow people to divert up to 4 percentage points of their payroll taxes -- about two-thirds of a worker's Social Security contribution -- to private accounts.
 This approach would require huge borrowing over the next two decades, possibly more than $4 trillion, because the government would lose revenue while still having to pay full benefits to retirees who had already earned benefits under today's system.
 Mr. Bush and his supporters say the government would eventually get all the money back, because benefit costs would decline as retirees in the future relied more heavily on their private accounts.
 Democratic lawmakers say that would be fiscally reckless. But many Democrats support add-on accounts, like today's 401(k) plans, that would come on top of today's system.
 In themselves, neither type of account addresses the shortfall for Social Security.
 Mr. Bush's plan would cut benefits, but would also cut tax revenues. Add-on accounts would increase savings -- some would call it a new tax -- but would not reduce government obligations.
 At least for the moment, neither approach has enough support to pass Congress.

What's a Clawback?
 If Mr. Bush's plan ever gets any traction in Congress, this could be a huge sleeper issue.
 For every dollar that a person diverts from taxes to a private account under Mr. Bush's plan, the government would reduce that person's retirement benefit by a dollar, compounded at an annual interest rate of 3 percent above inflation.
 In other words, a person would have to earn 3 percent a year on his or her private account -- 6 percent, at today's inflation rate -- to break even.
 The administration based this offset -- sometimes called a clawback -- on the supposedly risk-free average return on Treasury bonds.
 But administration officials worry privately that the break-even point is too high. The actual yield on inflation-protected Treasury bonds, known as TIPS, is only 2 percent.
 A 2 percent offset would make personal accounts much less risky, and could mean thousands of dollars more for a person at retirement. But it could also greatly increase the cost of Mr. Bush's plan.

What's an Increase?
 The last big changes in Social Security, based on recommendations to Congress from a bipartisan commission in 1983, sought to extend the program's solvency through a combination of tax increases and benefit cuts, and many experts say something similar is needed for the shortfalls ahead.
 Mr. Bush staunchly opposes any increase in the payroll tax rate, but he has not ruled out an increase in the payroll tax ceiling, a step that could raise just as much money.
 Under current law, payroll taxes are applied on wages and salaries only up to $90,000 a year. About 6 percent of workers earn more than that, accounting for about 15 percent of aggregate pay.
 According to the National Academy of Social Insurance, imposing the payroll tax on all pay would raise 116 percent of the expected shortfall.
 If the earnings ceiling were lifted, but people also earned extra benefits for their extra taxes, the academy estimated that the shortfall would still decline by 93 percent. That is because high-income people get a much smaller benefit for each dollar of payroll tax than low-income people do.
 Several polls show that raising the ceiling on payroll taxes is more popular than any proposal for cutting benefits. But that does not mean it can pass Congress; any such proposal would invite bitter opposition from millions of rich, educated and politically engaged voters.

What's a Cut?
 If Social Security benefits simply rose in line with inflation, experts say the program might not even have a shortfall. But under a law passed in 1977, benefits rise with wages, and wages rise about one percentage point a year on average faster than prices.
 Earlier this year, White House officials floated the idea of price indexing. A person's initial benefit would have the same buying power in the future as today, but it would be about half what is now promised to a worker starting off now.
 Actuarial experts say price indexing would save enough to close the projected $4 trillion shortfall. But experts say benefits would not keep up with rises in the standard of living. If benefits had remained constant ever since 1940, for example, retirees might have enough money for black-and-white television sets but not for cable television. More concretely, people would feel much poorer upon retirement because Social Security would replace a much lower share of a person's pre-retirement income.
 Under current law, Social Security benefits would replace about 40 percent of a middle-income worker's pay in 2065, according to the Congressional Budget Office. With price indexing, it would replace only 21.7 percent.
 A newer variant is progressive price indexing, which would apply the new formula only to people above a particular income level. Benefits for people in the bottom third of earnings would rise in line with the general standard of living.
 Proposed by Robert Pozen, a former executive at Fidelity Investments, the idea has many supporters in the White House.
 Government actuaries estimate the proposal could close about three-quarters of the projected shortfall over 75 years. But it could also deepen political divisions: high-income people already get a much smaller return on their payroll taxes than low-income workers, and that gap would widen every year.

Should People Work Longer?
 Life expectancies have risen, and they are expected to keep rising in the future. Under changes imposed in 1983, the ''normal retirement age'' is gradually climbing to 67 from 65 for those reaching retirement in 2022.
 If the normal retirement age was set at 67 immediately and raised to 68 over the next 12 years, the National Academy of Social Insurance estimated the shortfall would shrink by 28 percent. If the retirement age kept climbing gradually to 70, the shortfall would decline by 36 percent.
 Many experts contend that delayed retirement would simply reflect improving health care. Critics counter that it would be unfair to people with physically demanding jobs or lower-income people, who on average die younger than the well-off.
 Polls show none of the alternatives are popular with voters, which is why President Bush has yet to get specific and why even Republican lawmakers are pessimistic about passing a law this year.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ingo Fast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); CASH FLOW (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



243 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: A Political Dispute Puts a City in the Dark

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 8 

 BODY:
Looking to increase its cash flow in Brazil, the American energy giant, the AES Corporation, has been busy doing what power distributors everywhere do when customers fail to pay their bills: pulling the plug. But when it cut the lights recently at 85 buildings owned by the city government of Sao Paulo, it was dragged into the middle of an ugly political fight.
 Eletropaulo, AES's main Brazilian unit and Latin America's biggest power distributor, claims that the city owes it 636 million reais (about $246.1 million) in unpaid bills -- more than 100 times Eletropaulo's net profit in 2004. 
 Though almost all that debt was incurred by previous governments, dating back to 1996, Eletropaulo's decision to cut off power to the city, South America's biggest, came just three months after a new mayor took office, setting off a public outcry from city officials who argued that the move was politically motivated. 
 The showdown has important implications for AES, which has poured almost 2 billion reais (about $774 million) into Eletropaulo since it was privatized in 1998 and plans to invest an additional 428 million reais (about $165.6 million) in the company this year. AES, which is based in Arlington, Va., gets about a quarter of its worldwide revenue from Brazil, more than it gets from North America. Sao Paulo's city government is by far both Eletropaulo's biggest customer and debtor, accounting for 2.5 percent of the company's monthly revenue.
 ''Eletropaulo needs to cut down on fraud and nonpaying customers to become more profitable,'' said Renato Pinto, an energy analyst at Fator Corretora, a Sao Paulo brokerage firm.
 ''In that sense, they're right to cut off clients who don't pay,'' he continued. ''But when you're dealing with an entity like City Hall that serves the general public, I'm not so sure that this is the best way to resolve the problem.''
 At the heart of the dispute is a political tug of war between the city's new mayor, Jose Serra, of the Social Democratic Party, and his predecessor, Marta Suplicy, a member of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's Workers' Party. Mr. Serra, who ran for president in 2002 and lost to Mr. da Silva, says he inherited a city on the verge of bankruptcy with about 8 billion reais (about $3 billion) in short-term debt owed to array of utilities, construction companies, employees and even the federal government. 
 He has also accused Ms. Suplicy's administration of violating a federal fiscal responsibility law by not leaving enough money in the city's coffers to cover upcoming debt payments, something Ms. Suplicy has angrily denied.
 To clean up the city's finances, Mr. Serra has imposed draconian budget cuts and ordered that outstanding debts with utility companies like Eletropaulo and several other service providers be audited by the city officials -- a move that was widely viewed as an attempt to force the companies into renegotiating existing contracts.
 Mr. Serra is used to playing hardball with big multinational corporations. When he was Brazil's health minister from 1998 to 2002, when Fernando Henrique Cardoso was president, he forced pharmaceutical companies to lower prices on AIDS drugs by threatening to break patents.
 Eletropaulo executives say they are willing to negotiate a payment plan for the city, which they claim has not paid its electricity bill since last October, when Ms. Suplicy was still mayor. But, executives said, when the company's requests to meet with Mr. Serra's economic team went unanswered, it decided to cut the power at city buildings as a way of prodding city officials to the negotiating table.
 ''We were left with no alternative,'' said Roberto Di Nardo, Eletropaulo's vice president. ''We have an obligation to our shareholders to preserve the economic health of the company.''
 Within hours, the city won a court injunction ordering Eletropaulo to turn the lights back on. But Mr. Serra seized on the incident to ratchet up the war of words with Ms. Suplicy and the Workers' Party, saying that her administration had been treated more leniently by Eletropaulo for political reasons. He also suggested that Brazil's national development bank, B.N.D.E.S., which is controlled by the federal government and has a 49 percent stake in Eletropaulo, may have tacitly nudged the company into taking a harder line with his administration.
 ''They couldn't take any measures against the previous administration for political reasons, because they were saved by B.N.D.E.S.,'' Mr. Serra told reporters. ''So they came and did this during our administration.''
 The mayor was referring to Eletropaulo's own debt problems, which almost prompted the government to renationalize the company two years ago. At the time, Eletropaulo was still reeling after the government imposed power rationing, and had defaulted on part of the $1.2 billion that AES borrowed from the development bank to buy Eletropaulo in 1998. In the end, though, the bank agreed to a generous debt restructuring that allowed AES to retain a 51 percent majority control of Eletropaulo.
 Though AES is still one of the development bank's biggest borrowers, with some $445 million in debt, the bank's president, Guido Mantega, insisted that it has no say in how Eletropaulo is run.
 ''B.N.D.E.S. is a minority shareholder in Eletropaulo,'' Mr. Mantega said in a radio interview last week. ''It doesn't get involved in how the company is managed. It didn't in the past and it doesn't now. All the decisions are made by Eletropaulo's management.''
 Frustrated at what he sees as a lack of good faith on the city's behalf to negotiate a deal, Mr. Di Nardo said Eletropaulo was appealing the court ruling that forced it to restore power. He also said that Eletropaulo was prepared to cut the lights again if the city did not pay. Mr. Serra has said the city will sue the company for damages if Eletropaulo turns off the power again.
 But even as the threat of another blackout looms, the city does not appear to be in a rush to settle the matter.
 ''We're not going to default,'' said Mauro Ricardo Machado Costa, the city's finance secretary. ''But we need to audit the numbers to make sure they are correct. Then, we'll negotiate a payment schedule.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at a health agency in Sao Paulo, Brazil, had to use a flashlight to help a patient after the power company, a unit of the American energy giant AES, cut electricity because the city was behind in its bills. (Photo by Tiago Queiroz/Agencia Estada, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASH FLOW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MAYORS (88%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COMPANY REVENUES (65%) Electric Light and Power; Finances; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: AES CORP (96%); ELETROPAULO METROPOLITANA ELETRICIDADE DE SAO PAULO SA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Aes Corp; Eletropaulo 

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (96%); ELPL3 (BOVESPA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (96%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (96%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (78%) Todd Benson; Jose Serra; Marta Suplicy; Luis Inacio (Pres) Lula Da Silva

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Brazil; Sao Paulo (Brazil); Brazil; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005



244 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: World Bank and I.M.F. Seek Doubling of Aid to Poor Lands

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund called yesterday for a doubling of foreign aid to poor countries in five years, adding their weight to recent support from other development groups for such increases. 
 They laid out an agenda for combating global poverty, including calling for debt relief for poor countries and trade reform by rich ones, in a joint 256-page report. The document, which was reviewed by their governing boards, sets the stage for a high-level meeting of the two institutions this weekend in Washington. 
 Their advocacy of sharply higher levels of aid comes at a crucial time for the World Bank, the largest financier of antipoverty programs in developing countries. On June 1, it will have a new president, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary in the Bush administration, who has yet to fully define his own views on development strategy and foreign aid.
 Already this year, a group of development experts advising the United Nations, headed by Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Columbia University economist, and a commission headed by the British prime minister, Tony Blair, have recommended a doubling of aid and called on rich nations to quickly ratchet up spending.
 Senior economists at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund echoed both the United Nations group and the Blair commission in saying that this year is critical if there is any chance to reach specific goals set at the United Nations in 2000 for slashing poverty, illiteracy and sickness in developing countries by 2015.
 While the world as a whole may halve extreme poverty by 2015 -- in large measure because of progress in India and China -- Africa south of the Sahara may not meet any of the goals endorsed by world leaders five years ago, according to the report released yesterday, titled, ''Global Monitoring Report 2005: From Consensus to Momentum.'' Africa's economic growth rate would have to nearly double to 7 percent in the next decade for it to halve poverty, the report said.
 Senior World Bank officials, including the current president, James Wolfensohn, have said in recent years that substantially higher levels of aid are needed, especially in Africa. But Zia Qureshi, a senior adviser at the World Bank who wrote the report, said the clarity and specificity of the call for a doubling of aid in five years grew out of a growing conviction that poor countries can spend the money well.
 He noted that a dozen African countries had averaged close to 6 percent economic growth rates over the past decade, and that several others had rates above 5 percent.
 The report also includes a call on developing countries themselves to pursue policies that will encourage economic growth.
 Mark Plant, a senior adviser at the International Monetary Fund, said financial aid was necessary but far from enough on its own for Africa to achieve the growth required to reduce poverty. Sound economic policies, good budgetary planning and accountability for spending are also essential, he said.
 ''Money might not provide that jump-start,'' he said. ''It's more complicated than that.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



245 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: The Hard Stuff Now Includes Wine

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
NOT so many years ago, back when Americans sought out compact cars and calculated their gas mileage, most California wines clocked in at an economical 12 to 13 percent alcohol. It was perhaps a shade higher than what their European colleagues achieved, but California was blessed with generous sunshine that made ripening grapes an easier proposition than in the cooler climates of Bordeaux and Burgundy.
 Twenty-five years later, the 12 percent California wine seems as quaint as the gas-saving hatchback. Today, it's the rare bottle from California, red or white, that doesn't reach 14 percent alcohol. Many now hit 15, even 16 percent, a difference that may seem insignificant until you realize that a 15 percent bottle contains 25 percent more alcohol than one labeled 12 percent. 
 Casual consumers seem to pay little attention to the small print on the label that indicates the approximate alcohol content. And while these extreme wines do not hide their alcohol levels, few winemakers trumpet them, either. 
 In fact, many of these wines come from some of California's most critically acclaimed producers, who charge from $25 to $100 or more a bottle. Clearly, consumers intent on intoxication can find far cheaper pathways, like a bottle of bourbon with 40 percent alcohol.
 But among California producers and those who follow wine closely, the wines have provoked sharp debate. 
 Opponents have called them wines on steroids, and insist that the qualities of elegance and subtlety, and the ability to evolve gracefully with age, so prized in traditional wines, are completely lost. Wine's place on the dinner table, they say, is in danger, too. These wines, they argue, overwhelm food instead of enhancing it. High alcohol can create the impression of sweetness, which can clash with food. And then there's the headache factor, not to mention the issue of driving.
 ''You raise the alcohol just a couple percent in wine, and you change people's experience,'' said Andrew Murray, a winemaker in Santa Barbara County, who says he has tried taming the alcohol in his wines. ''The old concept, my wife and I can split a bottle of wine with dinner, is no longer true.''
 Proponents say the alcohol level is irrelevant, as long as the wines are balanced and taste good. They complain that opponents are judging them by Old World benchmarks. These producers assert that they are carving out an identity for California in the most traditional fashion, by allowing the wines to reflect the characteristics of the soil and climate in which the grapes are grown. They contend that higher alcohol levels are not a flaw as long as other factors, like acidity, which gives a wine zing, and tannins, which give it structure, do their part.
 ''We're not trying to be Burgundy, we're not trying to be California pinot,'' said Greg Brewer, who, with his partner, Steve Clifton, makes pinot noir and chardonnay in the Santa Rita Hills of western Santa Barbara County. ''We're only interested in the two grapes that grow best in the area in which we live.'' The Brewer-Clifton wines are often above 15 percent alcohol. They are intense, but unlike many of the high-alcohol wines they can be balanced and graceful as well.
 ''It's a number,'' Mr. Brewer said, dismissing the focus on alcohol. ''Are people checking the B.T.U.'s on a chef's burner?''
 At the Adega Restaurant and Wine Bar in Denver, where the higher-alcohol wines are popular, the issue of percentages almost never comes up, said Aaron Foster, the wine director. ''Their popularity is due to the name recognition,'' he said. ''To a certain degree, most people assume that wines are all the same, and they're looking at taste.''
 High alcohol levels are not completely new in California. Zinfandels have a long history of surpassing 15 and 16 percent. What's different are the wines from grapes not known for producing blockbuster alcohol levels. The Heavyweight 2003, a blend of cabernet sauvignon, merlot and two other grapes from Behrens & Hitchcock in the Napa Valley, weighs in at 15.6 percent. A 2001 roussanne from Sine Qua Non is at 15.5 percent. The 2002 Hard Core, a blended red wine from Core in eastern Santa Barbara County, hit 15.7 percent. Syrahs from Pax Wine Cellars in northern California regularly approach 16 percent, while the Bulladoir, a 2002 syrah from the Garretson Wine Company in Paso Robles, reached nearly 17 percent. Each of these wines has received scores of 90 points or higher from Robert M. Parker Jr., the influential wine critic.
 ''It used to be anything above 14 percent was really up there,'' said Bob Lindquist of Qupe Wine Cellars, who has been making wine in Santa Barbara County since the 1970's. ''Now, 15 is the new 14.''
 Around the world, a few wines, like Amarone in northeast Italy, are typically above 15 percent. Australia has had many high-alcohol wines, and in hot years, like 2003 in France, some producers may achieve elevated alcohol levels. But nowhere else can match California's concentration of extreme wines.
 In the state, the alcohol watershed came roughly around 1990. Previously, grape growers judged the ripeness of their grapes simply by gauging the sugar content. When the grapes hit a certain point on the Brix scale, which measures sugar content, they were picked. In the last 15 years, though, the buzz phrase has been physiological ripeness. This takes into account the ripeness of other parts of the grape, like the seeds and the skins. A physiologically ripe grape, in which the seeds have turned from green to brown, yields softer, more supple tannins with less astringency, making traditionally long-lived wines easier to drink at an earlier age.
 In most California vineyards, the seeds and skins lag behind sugar in reaching their ideal level of ripeness. As the seeds and skins ripen, the grapes get sweeter and sweeter. Growers using the standard of physiological ripeness are picking grapes at a much higher sugar level than they had previously.
 That's only part of it. Many winemakers say that scientific advances in viticulture have turned grapevines from plow horses into thoroughbreds, able to photosynthesize sunshine into sugar far more efficiently than a couple of decades ago. Scientists have sharply reduced the viruses that used to afflict leaves and turn them a brilliant red late in the growing season. Now those leaves are green and absorbing far more light than before. In the modern nursery, growers are able to select their rootstocks, graft them to any number of grapevine clones, and in a sense custom-design their own grape-producing factories.
 ''Because we've done such a great job in the selection of budwood and eliminated the viruses, photosynthesis is working far more efficiently,'' said R. Michael Mondavi, the former chief executive of the Robert Mondavi Corporation who is now a consultant. ''It's forcing people to have much higher sugar levels before the skin and seeds become mature.''
 In order to deal with ultra-sweet grape juice, scientists have developed voracious strains of yeast that are far more efficient in transforming sugar into alcohol than wimpier yeasts of old.
 ''These are Schwarzenegger kinds of yeasts,'' said Bruno D'Alfonso, the winemaker at Sanford Winery in the Santa Rita Hills. ''They would ferment a building if given a chance.''
 Mr. Mondavi does not favor the higher-alcohol wines.
 ''To me a wine is a beverage to be enjoyed with a meal,'' he said. ''These wines remind me of what my grandfather used to do with a big, heavy wine. He would add water, then drink it with his meal.''
 In fact, Mr. Mondavi's grandfather used a technique not that different from what some winemakers do to avoid having wines too high in alcohol. They add water to their grape juice before fermenting it into wine, resulting in less alcohol by volume.
 ''I pick ripe and water back,'' said Mr. D'Alfonso, saying out loud what many winemakers would prefer not to admit. ''I shoot for between 14.2 and 14.5. But I've had wines that were above 14.8 and they were balanced.''
 Other winemakers employ more advanced methods, like reverse osmosis or spinning cone columns, which can remove alcohol from wines after they are made. ''Pick at 16 percent, spin a third of it down to 12, then blend it together under 15 percent,'' said Jim Clendenen, owner of Au Bon Climat Winery in Santa Barbara County. 
 Mr. Clendenen continues to make wines under 14 percent, and occasionally under 13 percent. So does Randy Dunn, owner of Dunn Vineyards in the Napa Valley, who makes powerful cabernet sauvignons that are always long lived. His 2001 weighed in under 13.8 percent, and he tries to keep his wines in that range, even if he has to resort to techniques like reverse osmosis. Figures like 13.8 percent, by the way, are not as accurate as they seem. A wine below 14 percent, according to federal regulations, has a margin of error of plus or minus 1.5 percent. Above 14 percent, the margin of error is reduced to 1 percent. And for reasons that are more arcane than scientific, the federal government taxes wines above 14 percent at a higher rate ($1.57 a gallon) than those 14 percent or lower ($1.07). Winemakers seem not to care.
 ''I go with, the numbers be damned if you're picking the fruit when it's really ripe,'' said Mat Garretson of the Garretson Wine Company, whose wines typically run from 15 to 17 percent alcohol. He acknowledges that his wines may be a little much at a dinner party. 
 ''To do more than two or three of those at a meal is kind of scary,'' Mr. Garretson said. ''I know that does present a problem for some people, but I'm just trying to make the best wines I can from the area. There's a lot more pain to be had from people who pick too early or pick too late.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1)Chart: ''More Gusto in a Glass''A standard French wine is 12.5 percent alcohol, but now some wines, especially those from California, are reaching 15.5 percent or more.Chart shows (4-OUNCE GLASSES)
BLOOD ALCOHOL LEVELS After consuming the wine in 1 hour.Wine alcohol content12.5%15.5%The dark red indicates how much more alcohol is in the blood when a wine is 15.5 percent. Levels are based on average metabolism.In most states, including New York, driving with a blood alcohol level of 0.08 is driving drunk. Impaired judgment, especially while driving, can occur around or before 0.04.(Sources by David Craig, Hobart and William Smith Colleges
 New York State Dept. of Motor Vehicles)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



246 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Trade Deficit Hit $61 Billion As the Cost of Oil Increased
The trade deficit expanded in February for the third month, reaching a record $61 billion, as the rising cost of oil and the appetite for foreign goods propelled imports to new heights.
 The Commerce Department reported that imports ballooned to $161.5 billion, $2.6 billion more than in January. Meanwhile, exports remained virtually flat at $100.5 billion. The nation recorded a $64.7 billion deficit in the trade of goods, slightly tempered by a $3.7 billion surplus in services. [Page C6.]

Fed's Inflation Worries Increase
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve expressed more concerns about inflation at their meeting last month. [C10]

3 Charges Dropped Against Scrushy
A federal judge indicated that she would dismiss three perjury charges from the 58 counts against Richard M. Scrushy, left, the former chief executive of HealthSouth. Judge Karon Bowdre granted a defense motion to bar jurors from hearing evidence on Mr. Scrushy's sworn statement to an investigator from the Securities and Exchange Commission. [C6.]

Security Breach Said to Be Larger
Reed Elsevier said that Social Security numbers, driver's license information and the addresses of 310,000 people may have been stolen from its Seisint unit, 10 times more than it originally reported last month. [C7.]

Ex-A.I.G. Chief Remains Silent
Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief executive of American International Group, invoked his right against self-incrimination by not answering questions. [C7.]

Panel Rejects Bid to Sell Implants
A federal advisory panel voted 5 to 4 to reject an application by Inamed to sell silicone breast implants more widely. [A16.]

Pepsi Bottling Raises Outlook
Shares of Pepsi Bottling jumped 10 percent after the company raised its annual profit forecast to $1.80 a share, 2 cents more than its forecast in February. Pepsi Bottling raised prices by 4 percent in the United States in response to $100 million in added costs this year for plastic resin, aluminum and sweeteners. [C6.]

Verizon to Issue Shares for MCI
Verizon Communications is issuing 132 million shares as part of its $7.6 billion bid for MCI. [C18.]

Wal-Mart Donating $35 Million
A week after environmentalists forged an alliance with organized labor and community groups to attack Wal-Mart, the company announced that it would donate $35 million over the next decade to a conservation effort. [A16.]

Fed Minutes Create a Stock Rally
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 59.41 points, to 10,507.97; the S.&P. 500 was up 6.55 points, to 1,187.76; and the Nasdaq composite index gained 13.28 points, to 2,005.40. [C12.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,507.97 up 59.41Nasdaq composite -- 2,005.40 up 13.2810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.35% down 0.08The euro -- $1.2880 down 0.0102The dollar -- 108.24 yen up 0.52Graph: ''TODAY'' shows retail sales from September to February.Retail SalesMarch figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.8%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Pepsi Bottling shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); JUDGES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); JURY TRIALS (69%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (69%); PLASTICS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); RESINS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (56%); REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (69%); VZ (NYSE) (69%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); HLS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (56%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (56%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (56%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (55%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



247 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Trade Surplus Grew in February

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, April 12 

 BODY:
Canada's trade surplus unexpectedly rose 11.6 percent in February from January, as exports of commodities like oil and minerals helped overcome the effect of a strong Canadian dollar.
 Statistics Canada said Tuesday that the February trade surplus reached 4.8 billion Canadian dollars ($3.89 billion). Exports rose 1.4 percent, and while all sectors contributed to the wider surplus, farm and fish shipments were particularly strong. Imports fell 0.2 percent, but were underpinned by shipments of Chinese-made clothing, which jumped 9.1 percent. 
 The small increase in the trade surplus ran against a declining trend dating back to last summer. The Canadian dollar's strength against the American dollar has been blamed for the decline.
 Glen Hodgson, chief economist with the Conference Board of Canada in Ottawa, attributed the improvement to the recent high prices of oil and other commodities. Oil and natural gas alone represented 16.6 percent of Canada's exports in February. 
 ''I would like to think that this shows export recovery,'' Mr. Hodgson said, ''but it's too early to say that.'' Last week, the Conference Board of Canada forecast an overall decline in exports for the first quarter of 2005.
 Canada's trade surplus with the United States, its biggest trading partner, was up by 500 million Canadian dollars, to 8.7 billion Canadian dollars ($7.06 billion), while imports from the United States declined 0.7 percent.
 Despite the global weakness of the automobile sector, exports of trucks and auto parts rose while shipments of passenger cars remained steady. The overwhelming majority of Canada's auto trade is with the United States.
 The surprising strength of Canadian exports helped support the Bank of Canada's case that Canadian businesses are adjusting successfully to a soft American dollar. 
 Separately on Tuesday, the central bank left its core lending rate steady at 2.5 percent. It suggested in a statement, however, that rate increases may be coming. 
 ''There is increasing evidence that the Canadian economy is adjusting to global developments,'' the bank said. ''In line with this outlook, a reduction of monetary stimulus will be required over time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rise in exports of farm products, like cranberries in Manseau, Quebec, contributed to the 11.6 percent increase in Canada's trade surplus. (Photo by Jacques Boissinot/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SEAFOOD (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (59%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



248 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Depressed? New York Screens for People at Risk

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Doctors in New York City have begun to use a simple questionnaire to determine if a patient is at risk for depression, a practice that health officials hope will become a routine part of primary care, much like a blood pressure test or cholesterol reading.
 The new program is the first to carry out depression screening using a scored test on a wide scale. It comes amid a spirited national debate among psychiatrists, policy makers and patient-advocacy groups on the wisdom of screening for mental disorders, especially in children.
 In 2003, an expert panel convened by President Bush recommended expanding mental health screening, and Congress budgeted $20 million in supporting money for state pilot programs for this year. Several states, including populous states like Florida and Illinois, have begun to investigate large-scale screening plans, and scores of schools and other youth centers throughout the country have used instruments to test youngsters for suicide risk. 
 But some politicians and advocates for patients argue that testing people broadly for mental conditions is an invitation to overdiagnosis, unnecessary treatment and lifelong stigmatization. 
 In New York, no federal money is being used for the program, which is under way in hospitals run by the city. The test, which is being given to adults only, derives a depression score from the answers to nine questions. It is not meant to yield a formal diagnosis, but a high score would lead a doctor to recommend a more thorough clinical screening.
 The test includes questions about mood and behavior.
 For instance, patients are asked if over the past two weeks they have felt ''down, depressed or hopeless.'' They can answer by checking one of four categories: not at all, several days, more than half the days or nearly every day. Dr. Lloyd I. Sederer, who heads the mental health division of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, which is leading the New York effort, said he hoped the screening would set an example for other doctors in New York and around the country.
 ''It is our hope to have this become a standard practice,'' Dr. Sederer said.
 Health officials in New York City are working with the Health and Hospitals Corporation to put their screening program into effect. So far, only about a dozen primary-care physicians are using the test, which was developed using research from the RAND Corporation. The goal is to have every primary-care physician in the city hospital system using the test within the next two or three years. One in every four New Yorkers uses city hospitals for basic health-care treatment, meaning the program could soon involve millions of patients.
 Dr. Sederer said that a similar screening test could be developed for adolescents and that if the testing of adults gained acceptance, it would be easier for doctors to use a screening procedure for patients of any age.
 Psychiatrists and other proponents say mental health screening is long overdue. They argue that millions of people with serious mental disorders never get help, and that heightened vigilance would not only allow doctors to head off much worse mental problems later, but would also reduce the tremendous costs of untreated illness.
 Surveys have found that about 16 percent of Americans -- or as many as 46 million people -- suffer from depression at some point. And by some estimates, depression costs the nation $44 billion a year in lost work and disability -- more than any other illness, including heart disease.
 But opponents say that depression is not always easy for primary-care doctors to recognize, even in people who seek help, and they argue that a screening score of any kind could needlessly confuse or worry patients.
 ''When you label people as having a mental problem, such a label stays with them for their entire lives, whether or not it's accurate,'' said Vera Hassner Sharav, president of the Alliance for Human Research Protection, a patient-advocacy group that has been campaigning to block screening for mental health.
 Critics like Ms. Sharav contend that screening tests will also increase the use of psychiatric drugs, including antidepressants like Zoloft and Prozac, whose use in children and adolescents has recently come under scrutiny by regulators. 
 Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican and a gynecologist, introduced an amendment last fall to block federal financing for screening programs, in part because of worries about overmedicating schoolchildren. The plan was rejected.
 ''We already have a tremendous number of kids being put on drugs like Ritalin and Prozac,'' Dr. Paul said, ''and I think if these screening programs grow, you're going to see a lot of people pushed into medication programs for behavioral problems.''
 Dr. Sederer and psychiatrists, psychologists and administrators around the country who favor screening say these concerns are overblown and obscure a much larger problem: a dismissive public attitude toward mental illness. 
 Bill Emmet, coordinator for the Campaign for Mental Health Reform, a coalition of organizations working to build support for screening and other mental health programs, said: ''Are people sometimes misdiagnosed? Of course. But the fact is that there are whole segments of the population that for a variety of reasons are not being diagnosed with problems they do have, and that is the far greater problem.''
 Dr. Sederer said that once doctors were convinced that a quantitative score worked in recognizing depression, they would be more open to using similar measures for other areas of mental health. 
 Still, he acknowledged that ''nobody likes to be measured'' and said that there had been some resistance from doctors who worried that this would take away from already limited time with patients and add to their workload. The science behind screening is mixed. In studies of patients who belong to health maintenance organizations in California and Washington, researchers have found that screening, when combined with programs that coordinate treatment, does help many adults who are struggling with depression and who would otherwise receive little or no care.
 But in May, the Preventive Services Task Force, a federal panel of experts that advises doctors and the government on screening guidelines, concluded that there was not enough evidence to recommend a similar kind of screening for suicide risk. The controversy is not likely to be settled soon. 
 ''I have been getting a lot of attention on this, and it runs across the political spectrum, from civil libertarians on the left to Christians on the right,'' Representative Paul said. ''I think the idea of screening people, of asking these kinds of questions, rubs people the wrong way, and particularly when it's their children.''
 Officials in New York, however, defend their initiative.
 ''Depression is a leading illness in New York City, but it can be effectively treated,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner. ''Our surveys show that there are an estimated 400,000 New Yorkers with depression; many have not been accurately diagnosed or effectively treated.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on April 13 about a New York City plan to have primary-care doctors screen their adult patients for depression referred incorrectly to a related federal program. Congress has set aside $20 million to encourage states to develop an array of mental health programs, including expanded screening for depression; the money is not solely for screening. 
 The article also included an incorrect identification, supplied by the city's Health Department, for the institution that developed the New York test. It was Columbia University, not the RAND Corporation. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Lloyd I. Sederer, the director of mental health services in New York, hopes to set an example for the nation by screening for depression. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart: ''Rating Depression''Doctors are beginning to use a simple questionnaire to measure if an adult is suffering from depression. The test is not meant to be a formal diagnosis, but a high score would lead a doctor to recommend more screening.Over the past two weeks, how often have you been bothered by any of the following problems?(Answer the set of following questions, and score them according to this scale)Not at all: 0Several days: 1More than half the days: 2Nearly every day: 31. Little interest or pleasure in doing things2. Feeling down, depressed or hopeless3. Trouble falling or staying asleep, or sleeping too much4. Feeling tired or having little energy5. Poor appetite or overeating6. Feeling bad about yourself, or that you are a failure or have let yourself or your family down7. Trouble concentrating on things, such as reading the newspaper or watching TV8. Moving or speaking so slowly that other people could have noticed. Or the opposite, being so fidgety or restless that you have been moving around a lot more than usual9. Thoughts that you would be better off dead, or hurting yourself in some wayTally your scoreRESULTS1-4 -- Minimal depression5-9 -- Mild depression10-14 -- Moderate depression15-19 -- Moderately severe depression20-27 -- Severe depression(Source by New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (74%); SUICIDE (73%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%) Mental Health and Disorders; Depression (Mental); Tests and Testing; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Mental Health and Disorders

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Health and Mental Hygiene Department (NYC)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Lloyd I (Dr) Sederer; Marc Santora; Benedict Carey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



249 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Last Month, Fed Officials Voiced Inflation Worries

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12 

 BODY:
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve became notably more worried about inflation last month, with some warning about the potential need to raise interest rates more rapidly in the future, according to meeting notes released on Tuesday. 
 But investors reacted with relief, pushing stock prices up and long-term interest rates down, in part because Fed officials concluded that their strategy of modest rate increases was ''appropriate for now'' and that faster rate increases ''did not appear necessary at this time.''
 The stock market jumped immediately after the minutes were released at 2 p.m., turning sharply around from losses earlier in the day that had pushed the major market gauges close to new lows for the year.
 Long-term interest rates declined sharply. Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds, which have a direct impact on mortgage rates, declined from 4.43 percent to 4.35 percent -- the first time in a month they fell below 4.4 percent. 
 ''While the minutes reinforce the notion that the Fed's worries about inflation have increased, they do not signal that a shift toward a more aggressive stance is on the near-term horizon,'' said Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak & Company. 
 But that interpretation may not last for long. According to minutes from the central bank's policy meeting on March 22, ''many participants indicated that their uncertainty about the intensity of inflation pressures had risen.'' Fed officials also appeared surprised by rapid economic growth and strong business investment early this year, leading some to conclude that they might be forced to act more aggressively against rising prices. 
 The minutes provided new insight into the central bank's most recent meeting, when it jolted financial markets by issuing a new warning about ''inflation pressures.''
 Though the central bankers agreed in March to continue saying that they expected to raise rates at a ''measured'' pace -- which investors have understood to be a quarter-point increase per meeting in overnight lending rates -- the warning raised fears that the Fed might either jump faster or keep raising rates over a longer time period than expected. 
 The minutes made it clear that Fed officials have become more worried about rising consumer prices, which have climbed about 3 percent over the last year, and that they wanted to warn financial markets to be ready for a tougher stance if the economy outpaced expectations. 
 But the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy, drew comfort from the fact that wages were climbing slowly and productivity growth had remained strong. 
 Evidence in the three weeks since the Fed's policy meeting has pointed toward slower domestic growth, which could ease some of the fears expressed by the central bankers. 
 Oil import prices climbed higher, pushing gasoline prices up sharply, but, instead of feeding inflation, that may ultimately serve to slow consumer demand. Meanwhile, consumer confidence has slipped, job creation was much slower than expected in March, and the trade gap widened again in February. 
 ''Everybody agrees that the first quarter was very strong, but since then we've had one mediocre employment report, declining consumer confidence and higher energy prices,'' said Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America. ''The consumer can't go at this pace with these gasoline price increases.'' 
 Fed officials ''noted with some concern the elevated readings on inflation,'' according to the minutes, and some predicted that energy prices would remain high for the foreseeable future. Several members ''viewed an upside surprise to inflation as potentially more harmful than an equivalent downside surprise.'' 
 Despite the warnings, investors focused almost entirely on the committee's conclusion that there was no immediate need to abandon the policy of ''measured'' rate increases. That relieved fears that the Fed would raise the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks by half a point in May rather than by a quarter-point as it has done at every meeting since last June.
 But even as Fed officials decided to retain language about a ''measured'' pace at their March meeting, they signaled that the phrase did not preclude them from raising rates more abruptly or for a longer time than investors are expecting. 
 According to the minutes, members who wanted to keep the wording noted that it was ''clearly conditional'' on developments in the economy. 
 ''The committee seems to have defined 'measured' more or less like an eight-lane highway,'' said Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''Measured pace now has a broader interpretation, perhaps to cover up a less cohesive set of opinions in the committee.'' 
 The minutes suggest growing disagreement about when to drop the forward-looking guidance implied in the commitments about a ''measured'' pace. The Fed began giving such guidance in the summer of 2003, when it sought to reassure investors that it would keep rates low for a ''considerable period.'' 
 But some Fed officials have complained from the start that such language reduced their flexibility. Fed officials have made it clear they will eventually have to drop the advance guidance, either because they no longer need to raise rates or because they need to act more aggressively. 
 Those concerns, the minutes make clear, became ''more pressing'' at the March meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



250 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 365 words

PERSON: Wilbur A. Levin

HEADLINE: Wilbur A. Levin, 84, Guide to Brooklynites as Kings County Clerk

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Wilbur A. Levin, the Kings County clerk and a longtime civic and business leader in New York City, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
 The cause was cancer, his daughter Kate D. Levin said. 
 Mr. Levin's official title was county clerk and clerk of the Supreme Court and commissioner of jurors, County of Kings. The post, to which Mr. Levin was named in 1989, was a lifetime appointment that made him an important figure to more than a million Brooklynites. 
 ''If you live in Brooklyn,'' Mr. Levin told The Daily News in 1996, ''and are 18 or over, a citizen, a nonfelon, and either vote, pay taxes, collect unemployment, welfare, or have a driver's license, your name is going to pass through this office.''
 Mr. Levin was previously president, chief executive and chairman of the board of Independence Savings Bank and a former president of the Martin's department store chain, both based in Brooklyn.
 Wilbur Arthur Levin, almost always called Bill, was born in Brooklyn on Oct. 21, 1920, and raised in Brookline, Mass. He received a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1941 and served as a lieutenant in the Army. In 1945, he joined Martin's, which had been founded by his grandfather.
 As county clerk, Mr. Levin was routinely dazzled by the inventiveness of Brooklynites summoned for jury duty. There was the United Nations interpreter who said he knew no English, the Roman Catholic priest who brought a note from Cardinal John J. O'Connor and the limousine driver who said he was blind.
 Active in civic affairs, Mr. Levin served on many boards, including those of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center and Helen Keller Services for the Blind. He was a trustee and vice chairman of Brooklyn Law School and a director of the Prospect Park Alliance. 
 Besides his daughter Kate, the New York City cultural affairs commissioner, Mr. Levin is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Schwalbe, the author, as Phyllis Lee Levin, of ''Edith and Woodrow: The Wilson White House'' (Scribner, 2001); a sister, Jeanne Brenner of Jamaica Plain, Mass.; a daughter, Emme Deland of Manhattan; two sons, John, of Brooklyn, and Peter, of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); JURY DUTY (72%); CANCER (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (69%); DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); RETAILERS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); BLINDNESS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); RELIGION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INDEPENDENCE SAVINGS BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



251 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Most Big Corporate Pension Funds Showed Gains in 2004

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The health of corporate pension funds stabilized in 2004, but the widespread investment losses most funds suffered in recent years will continue to undermine corporate earnings for at least another year, according to a study by Milliman Consultants and Actuaries.
 The study found that on average, America's biggest corporate pension funds had 90 cents for every dollar they owed to workers and retirees at the end of 2004, a slight improvement over the 89 cents at the end of 2003. Most big pension funds enjoyed investment gains in 2004, but the gains did not increase overall pension plan solvency very much because the amounts owed to workers and retirees also grew.
 Milliman based its findings on a review of the pension information disclosed by America's 100 largest companies in the footnotes of annual reports. Those disclosures are intended to help investors understand how much money a company has promised its work force, relative to the size of its business. The information can differ substantially from the data companies publish separately, in complying with the federal pension funding rules. 
 It was the second consecutive year that pension investments have had positive returns, Milliman found. In 2004, pension investments returned 12.4 percent, on average, and in 2003 they returned an average of 19.6 percent. The company with the biggest annual return on its pension investments, Federal Express, reported a gain of 29.5 percent in 2004. 
 But the improvement in pension investments will not show up in corporate financial performance for at least a year, Milliman said, because of lags built into the accounting process. When actuaries calculate pension values, they generally spread them over several years, to reduce year-to-year volatility. As a result, the big losses most pension funds suffered in the last bear market are still working their way through income statements.
 ''Investors shouldn't say, 'Oh good, assets are up, therefore pension income will appear again,''' said John W. Ehrhardt, a consulting actuary for Milliman, who added, ''I think people still think that way.'' 
 Pension income refers to the increase to corporate earnings that a pension fund can occasionally provide. Most of the time, companies report pension expense -- not income -- because pension benefits have a cost to the companies that provide them. But in the late 1990's, pension funds produced big enough investment gains to offset the reported cost of providing the benefits. So companies were able to add some of those gains to their earnings as pension income.
 The practice has been controversial, because in reality, a pension fund is a dedicated trust; a company cannot take money out of it and apply it to the business. Critics complained that reporting pension income blurred the quality of corporate earnings, making it hard for investors to know how much of a company's profit came from the business and how much from pension activity. 
 Since 2002, most companies have gone back to reporting pension expense. But because of the lags built into the system, a few companies have been able to add pension income into their operating income over the last two years. In 2004, Milliman found, 14 of the 100 large companies in its sample included pension income in pretax earnings. The companies included I.B.M., General Electric, Verizon Communications, Lucent Technologies, Prudential Financial and Qwest Communications. 
 Mr. Ehrhardt said that it was likely that much of the pension income would dry up at these companies in 2005. 
 General Electric, for example, has been reporting less and less pension income every year since 2001, when it had $2 billion worth. In 2004, it reported $124 million, out of total earnings of $16.6 billion. 
 A G.E. spokesman, David Frail, confirmed that the company's pension income days were drawing to a close. 
 ''We will not have pension income in 2005,'' Mr. Frail said. ''The pension plan has been a drag on earnings growth for the last several years, and that will continue in '05.''
 The Milliman study also examined actuarial assumptions, and found that many companies have been bringing their assumptions into closer alignment with current economic conditions -- though not nearly enough to satisfy economists, who have been arguing that pension funds should be measured using market values. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



252 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 818 words

PERSON: Paul K. Perry

HEADLINE: Paul K. Perry, Innovator in Polling, Dies at 95

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Paul K. Perry, an architect of the Gallup Poll who pieced through the wreckage of pollsters' stunningly wrong predictions that President Harry S. Truman would be defeated in 1948 to improve forecasts for future elections, died on April 7 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 95.
 The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, a son, Dr. Paul G. Perry, said.
 In the 1948 election, Gallup and other pollsters predicted that the Republican challenger, Thomas E. Dewey, would defeat Truman. But Truman surged to victory despite his secondary position in the last polls, resulting in the legendary photograph of a delighted president holding a copy of The Chicago Tribune bearing the banner headline that Dewey had triumphed. 
 The immensely embarrassed polling industry, then in its infancy, huddled with academics and quickly came up with some reforms, most notably the need to conduct polls later in the election cycle. Another was to make the surveys more random.
 Mr. Perry, who was chief statistician and later president of the Gallup Organization, is credited with at least two innovations: devising a system to identify likely voters, and coming up with ways to allocate undecided voters to candidates.
 He evaluated the methods by scrutinizing results of the 1950 elections, in which he accurately predicted a Republican gain of 28 seats in the House, and wrote detailed articles in professional journals explaining his decisions. The efficacy of Mr. Perry's methods for predicting the choices of likely voters proved still effective in 1999 when the Pew Research Center for People and the Press tested them during the race for mayor of Philadelphia. The voting behavior of 73 percent of those surveyed was correctly forecast.
 ''At their core, the methods he came up with were disarmingly straightforward,'' Albert H. Cantril, an independent public opinion analyst in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message yesterday. ''Were he still active in the field, Paul would be bringing the same empirical rigor to current challenges, such as how to sample people who use only a cellphone.''
 Another example of Mr. Perry's ingenuity, Dr. Cantril said in an interview, was his polling of some people secretly and others openly during the 1964 election. He found that Barry M. Goldwater, a Republican who was considered the more controversial candidate, did better among the secret responders. In 1972, Democrat George S. McGovern, also considered controversial, also did better among those being polled privately.
 Mervin Field, the founder of the Field Poll in California, said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Perry was one of the first polling experts to emphasize making second calls to people who were not home for the first call, and later was a pioneer in developing techniques to survey voters as they left polling places.
 Working with George Gallup almost from the beginning of modern public opinion surveys in the 1930's, Mr. Perry played a critical role, Mr. Field said. ''You can't overstate the contribution Paul Perry made to Gallup's name and franchise,'' he said.
 Paul Keely Perry was born on Feb. 22, 1910, in Camden, N.J., and grew up in Philadelphia and in Rochester, N.Y. His father sold wholesale leather to shoe manufacturers.
 Mr. Perry, an economics major, graduated from Tufts University in 1933, but was unable to find a job in the Depression. A fraternity brother working for Dr. Gallup, who had only recently set up shop, invited him to come to Princeton to apply for a job. Mr. Perry lived in Princeton until his death.
 ''There were just a few of us, five or six, and we were hand-tabulating ballots, that was our principal task,'' Mr. Perry said in an interview with The Washington Post after Dr. Gallup died in 1984.
 Mr. Perry and others among Dr. Gallup's first hires honed their statistical knowledge in seminars they arranged with Princeton professors.
 Still, the newness of the field meant that Mr. Perry ''had to invent a few tools,'' said Herbert Abelson, who has worked in public opinion surveys at Princeton University and at a company he founded. Dr. Abelson said that Mr. Perry ''had a profound effect on the whole field.''
 His influence was magnified by Dr. Gallup's willingness to let him publish articles in journals like Public Opinion Quarterly, rather than keeping certain methods as proprietary secrets. Dr. Cantril suggested that this policy was also in part an effort to re-establish the credibility of polling after the 1948 debacle.
 Mr. Perry's wife of 53 years, the former Ruth Grandison, died in 1990. In addition to his son Paul, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by his daughters, Ruthmarie Thomas of West Windsor, N.J., and Alice Strong of Princeton; another son, Mark, of Charlottesville, Va.; seven grandchildren; and two stepgrandsons.
 Dr. Perry said his father never said how he voted in the presidential election of 1948. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MAYORS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



253 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Rising Steel Prices Force Changes in Construction Plans

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 12 

 BODY:
For Richard L. Friedman, chief executive of Carpenter & Company here, redeveloping the historic Charles Street Jail into a $100 million four-star hotel is a dream project. In two weeks, he hopes to start construction on a major addition and renovation of the majestic stone structure, which has a prime location near the Charles River, world-class hospitals and the State House. It is at the foot of Beacon Hill, a neighborhood with 19th-century town houses, brick sidewalks and period lighting.
 But since planning started on the development, which had a $50 million construction budget two years ago, the prices of steel and other construction materials have soared, and Mr. Friedman undertook an eight-month redesign to bring the construction budget, which had risen to $70 million, down to $64 million. Because of the higher total cost, he was also required to put up an additional $6 million in equity. 
 The architects, Cambridge Seven Associates Inc. and Ann Beha & Associates, removed the basement that had been planned in the addition, reduced the distance from each floor to the floor above and added a 15th story, said the project manager, Darren D. Messina. ''We couldn't afford it at 14 stories,'' he said. Seeking room rates of $250 a night, ''we were a little handcuffed in what else we could take out,'' he added. 
 Despite a four-year effort to put this deal together, ''it's been a nightmare,'' Mr. Friedman said, expressing a sentiment heard around the country from private, public and institutional developers, builders and architects. To rein in construction costs that are often 10 to 20 percent over budget or even more, they have had to redesign or re-engineer projects, increase investments or borrowing, cut projected profits and delay or cancel construction.
 Since June 2003, the price of steel has doubled. The costs of copper, gypsum, plywood, lumber, cement and petroleum used to fabricate, transport and install many materials have also increased steeply, if less drastically. 
 In construction, steel is pervasive. It is in structural frames, floor decks, ceiling grids, air-handling systems, wiring, plumbing, interior studs and bars that reinforce concrete. Last November, an index reflecting the cost of a theoretical market basket of steel products peaked at 412.6, according to the Producer Price Index compiled by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Prices then turned down and by January, the most recent month for which the index is available, they had eased off to 330.7, but this is still double the level of 165 in mid-2003.
 Such nettlesome price increases have been compounded by the difficulty at times in obtaining steel and other materials as the fast-growing economies in Asia, especially China, soak up supplies.
 Meanwhile, the output of steel in the United States has fallen. From 1999 to 2002, when prices were more stable, the value of steel products made in the United States fell from $171 billion to $131 billion, said Joseph P. Kowal, the bureau's senior economist for the Producer Price Index, who adjusted these prices for inflation.
 All this combines to create risk and uncertainty for developers, builders and architects. ''What makes this steel situation scary is the speed of the price change and our inability to control it,'' said Michael McNally, co-chief operating officer of Skanska U.S.A. Building Inc., a builder based in Parsippany, N.J.
 David Manfredi, a partner at Elkus/Manfredi Architects Ltd. here, said: ''Every sizable project has been affected by the rising cost of steel. It's the demand in Asia and the decline in U.S. steel production. In a global economy, steel goes to the highest bidder.'' As a result, he added, ''some developers have stopped design work.''
 In California, foundation work was halted in December on a retrofitting of a 2.2-mile span of the San Francisco Bay Bridge so it can better withstand earthquakes. Construction of the actual span, which was scheduled to start last October, has been delayed indefinitely as state officials and lawmakers grapple with the price tag of $6 billion, up from the 2001 estimate of $2.6 billion, largely because of the rise in the cost of steel, according to state transportation officials. 
 ''The price of steel and concrete went through the roof,'' said Christopher Traina, the supervising bridge engineer. ''We also have an availability problem; the lead time for buying materials went from three to eight months.''
 At the Pennsylvania State University medical center in Hershey, just three hours east of Pittsburgh, once the heart of United States steel production, the metal is so expensive that the college cannot afford to build a planned 264-bed residence. Instead, the plan was downsized. This summer construction will start on a new 105-bed dorm, and 152 beds will be placed in renovated buildings nearby, said Linn Morris, the senior project manager.
 Furthermore, for the college's wider expansion plan, totaling approximately $500 million, ''the inflation of construction dollars may delay some projects,'' he added.
 In February, the Trump Organization started site preparations in Chicago for an $850 million, 2.6-million-square-foot mixed-use tower. To keep costs in line, it now has a concrete foundation rather than the steel frame that the architect, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, had originally planned, said Donald J. Trump Jr., the vice president for development. He cautioned that if steel prices spiked again and interest rates rose, ''the real estate market will decline.''
 According to William Wheaton, professor of urban economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, developers in markets where demand is strong for housing and industrial facilities are not hurt as badly by rising construction costs. For those that specialize in office construction, however, ''this could ultimately put a damper on development because tenants are not in the mood to pay higher rents,'' he said.
 One company that has not suffered with higher construction costs is the AMB Property Corporation, an industrial real estate investment trust based in San Francisco with a $6.4 billion portfolio. It has ramped up its construction of new warehouse-distribution space worldwide even though it must pay more to build it, because many prospective users are doing so well that they are less resistant to higher prices than office tenants. ''We're compensated by double-digit growth in global trade and 10 percent rent increases near airports,'' said Gene Reilly, an executive vice president.
 But many developers working on office projects are struggling with rising material costs. In suburban Framingham near here, for example, the profit margin was halved on a $10 million office that National Development, based in Newton, is constructing for a tenant that has leased the entire building, said a partner, Jack O'Neil. From last August, when he started negotiating rents with his tenant, to December, when the lease was signed, rising steel prices consumed much of his profit.
 Patrick Lee, a partner at Trinity Financial Inc. here, which develops mixed-income multifamily housing, often with public tax credits, said the jump in steel prices ''put us at risk in every project we're doing.''
 ''We finally put the financing together, and our construction comes in 15 percent over budget,'' he said. ''Our lenders don't believe it, and it's making me cry.'' In Newport, R.I., he started construction last fall on the second phase of Newport Heights, 147 units in a 425-unit apartment project, but rising costs forced him to replace shingles with vinyl and cut some trim from the facade. ''The architecture isn't all we'd hoped,'' he said.
 Architects must design years in advance with prices of land, financing, materials and construction in mind. Now, by the time construction starts, ''it's difficult to foresee what will happen to costs,'' said Mark Sarkisian, a partner at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in San Francisco.
 While steel prices have eased off about 3.5 percent since January, developers' woes have not ended, said Peter Timothy, president of A.M. Fogerty & Associates, an independent price estimator in Hingham, Mass. Fabricators that supply steel components will guarantee prices for only a few weeks rather than for several months as they once did, and construction contractors are reserving the right to charge developers more if material prices rise.
 Indeed, Mr. Timothy added, because of ''the largest price increases I've seen in 25 years'' for steel, he estimates that overall construction costs in 2004 increased about 12 percent compared with a more common annual inflation rate in construction of about 3 percent. ''Private developers can adjust by cutting quality, but cities and states everywhere are finding it real tough,'' he said.
 Recently, the nearby city of Waltham delayed construction of two schools in its $154.2 million eight-school expansion plan as high building costs compounded other problems. ''If the United States still had a major steel industry, this wouldn't be such a problem,'' said John Cervone, chief of staff to Mayor Jeannette McCarthy. ''It's gone beyond a ripple to a domino effect.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Charles Street Jail, above, is being turned into a $100 million hotel, shown at top in a rendering. The construction costs, projected at $50 million two years ago, have soared, making a redesign necessary. (Photo by Carpenter & Company)
 (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through February.Graph tracks sales, starts and completions since 2000.(Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (74%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (66%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); STATISTICS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



254 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Heel Steps Into the Light

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
MY father's parents came to the United States from Apulia, a poor, southeastern stretch of Italy overlooked by most tourists. So I grew up with a steady exposure to that region's cuisine, although I never attached such a formal word to it. To me it was simply what I could expect to avoid or eat at Grandma's house, from mussels to octopus and almonds to orecchiette, those irresistible concave nubs of pasta, which she made one by one, for hours on end, using her thumb as a mold.
 Tomatoes, chickpeas, eggplant and ricotta had major presences in her kitchens: the gleaming first-floor one, in which guests were allowed, and the messy basement one, in which the real work was done. But olive oil reigned supreme, a reflection of its enormous importance to Apulia's economy and to her own family's survival in the Apulian town of Ruvo, where the relatives she had left behind still tended olive and almond trees. She used olive oil not only for frying but also for baking, with dubious results. Grandma's lasagna was outstanding, but her cookies? In honor of her memory, let me say only that they were best dunked in coffee, which rather crucially moistened them. 
 Of the many reasons I like the new restaurant Ama, one is the way it resurrects her spirit. But while that reaction is personal, its general trigger is something any diner can appreciate. Ama's focus on the culinary traditions of Apulia, the often unheralded heel of the boot, gives it a fresher profile than that of the dozens of other new Italian restaurants that open in New York every season.
 That focus is inevitably fettered. Apulia provides Ama's owners, Donatella Arpaia and Turibio Girardi, with a guiding light, nudging the restaurant toward certain ingredients and a certain rustic sensibility. But they know that their patrons are a bit more likely to be financiers from Battery Park City than farmers from Bari, and so they adjust.
 While the terrific charcoal-grilled lamb sweetbreads, one of the best main courses, nods to the use of innards in many poor regions and to the currency of lamb innards in Apulia, the Cornish hen, another fine entree, could be on many a menu. So could the quail, although Ama gives it Italian accents in the forms of pancetta stuffing and a pedestal of polenta and cardoncelli mushrooms.
 Ama's decor, too, is more downtown than Mediterranean, another point in its favor. Putting diners' comfort ahead of its rustic conceit, Ama presents a sleek white-on-white, taupe-on-white and caramel-on-white room, the colors meant to evoke a moment under the Apulian sun, Ms. Arpaia said, but at least as evocative of Armani or Calvin Klein home collections.
 That room looks polished and sexy enough that the restrained prices come as a very pleasant surprise. Most of the main courses are under $20. The entree-size pasta dishes cost $14 to $16. A diner can have plenty of food and a glass of wine and get out of Ama for about $50 with tax and tip. That is, sadly and crazily, a bargain for dining of this caliber.
 I should not overstate the caliber. I received friendly service, but acquaintances who went at other times complained of being rushed. And my friendly service was far from expert. On one visit a server delivered a wrong appetizer (and quickly remedied the error when it was noted). On another visit a server brought a wrong entree. (I let it slide.)
 The dishes vary widely in appeal. Among the appetizers, a charcoal-grilled octopus salad with cherry tomatoes, capers and celery was wonderful, the flesh crisp on the outside and, on the inside, not at all rubbery in the way octopus can be. But bacalao was the opposite: drier and tougher than in most other restaurants.
 Among pasta and rice dishes, I found little pleasure and an overly salty gumminess in the tiella Pugliese, a classic casserole with rice, potatoes and mussels. But I relished orecchiette with sweet sausage, golden slivers of fried artichoke and cherry tomatoes; bucatini with octopus in a tomato sauce enlivened by red pepper; and, perhaps best of all, caputini (like cavatelli) with eggplant and a sharp, strong version of ricotta salata.
 Several of the meat and seafood dishes were forgettable, like the quail and the rabbit, which is filled with chestnut and Swiss chard. One, an Apulian seafood soup seasoned with saffron, was seriously flawed. It included overcooked shrimp and scallops. A better bet was seared sea bass with sauteed chicory and a fava bean puree. And the side dishes -- including mashed potatoes with pancetta and parmesan, fava beans with shaved pecorino, and crunchy zucchini fritters -- were delightful.
 Mr. Girardi, who runs the kitchen, and Ms. Arpaia, who supervises the dining room, have a southern Italian ancestry. (Her mother is from Apulia.) Ms. Arpaia can often be seen pacing the place, a comely 32-year-old who seems intent on making a big name for herself. She is working on a line of eponymous food and entertaining products for Spiegel. She is writing a book. In late 2003 she and the chef David Burke opened the Upper East Side restaurant DavidBurke & Donatella, where business has been brisk and the attention-getting flourishes include a smoking room of sorts in cold months: a white stretch limo parked in front.
 Ms. Arpaia is shrewd -- shrewd enough to know that neither Apulia's nor Ama's greatest glories are sweet ones. She conceded in a telephone interview that the restaurant was still mulling and tinkering with desserts. None of them -- not the chestnut panna cotta and certainly not the Twinkies-like cream cakes, fried in olive oil and paired with a thin, watery chocolate sauce -- caught my fancy any more than the flinty almond biscotti Ms. Arpaia laid down one night, a complimentary complement to our coffee.
 ''You have to dunk,'' she exhorted my friends and me. ''Dunk.''
 Grandma had already taught me that much.

Ama
48 Macdougal Street (Prince Street), SoHo; (212)358-1707.

ATMOSPHERE -- A sleek, almost monochromatic, subtly sexy room that represents a contemporary context for rustic cooking.

SOUND LEVEL -- Fairly loud when crowded.

RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Octopus salad; caputini (like cavatelli) with eggplant; orecchiette with sausage and artichokes; lamb sweetbreads; zucchini fritters; assorted gelati.

WINE LIST -- Concise, entirely Italian and not expensive.

PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $9 to $12; pasta dishes and meat and seafood entrees, $14 to $22; desserts, $7 to $9; brunch dishes, $8 to $16.

HOURS -- Monday through Thursday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Friday, to midnight. Saturday, 5 p.m. to midnight (from 11 a.m. starting April 23). Sunday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.

RESERVATIONS -- For a prime weekend dinner time, call about two weeks ahead.

CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Restaurant at street level; basement restroom is not accessible.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining


GRAPHIC: Photo: SUNSTRUCK ON MACDOUGAL -- Ama serves dishes inspired by the Italian countryside in a bright urban setting. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



255 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Moves a Step Closer to the European Union

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

 BODY:
After two years of sanctions and criticism of the Serbian government's failure to arrest war-crime suspects, the European Union indicated yesterday that it considered the federation of Serbia and Montenegro ready to start negotiations on closer ties with the 25-nation union. 
 A European Commission study released yesterday said Serbia had greatly improved its co-operation with the war crimes tribunal in The Hague. The report also addressed the state of the economy and political institutions, and recommended that member nations start talks on a preliminary agreement that is the first step toward membership. 
 The recommendation is subject to approval at a meeting of European foreign ministers on April 25.
 The recommendation comes after a policy change less than three months old that has seen the Serbian government take a more aggressive stance toward war-crime suspects. In that period Serbia has helped transfer 10 suspects, most of them Bosnian Serbs, to the tribunal. An 11th is expected to travel to the court on Thursday. Senior Serbian government ministers said the policy change was directly linked to the commission's study.
 The recommendation was given in spite of the fact that some most wanted suspects remain at large.
 Until recently, both the European Union and the United States had insisted that Serbia hand over the two most wanted men, Gen. Ratko Mladic, the wartime commander of the Bosnian Serb Army, and the Bosnian Serb political leader, Dr. Radovan Karadzic. But senior European diplomats said recent progress had been sufficient to reward Serbia and Montenegro with the possibility of closer political and economic ties. 
 Montenegro's policies have generally not been an issue. 
 Cristina Gallach, spokeswoman for the European Union's foreign policy high representative, emphasized however that full membership would not be possible without the arrest of all war-crime suspects.
 The commission's conclusion also indicates a determination among policy makers to ensure that Bosnia and the loose federation of Serbia and Montenegro are not left behind in the process of European integration, European diplomats said. 
 Integration is regarded as increasingly critical as Serbia faces uncertainty over two issues: Talks on Kosovo, officially a Serbian province but administered by the United Nations, are to start in September. And Montenegro is seeking to hold a referendum on independence next year.
 Until earlier this year successive Serbian governments had argued that the arrest of former members of the security forces accused of committing crimes during the Balkan wars of the 1990's would enrage public opinion, destabilize the government and encourage Serbia's nationalist opposition.
 Serbia's conservative prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, instead backed a policy of ''voluntary surrender'' whereby war crimes suspects were encouraged to turn themselves in. ''Voluntary surrender'' remains official policy, but senior ministers now say arrest warrants have been issued for all remaining indicted suspects. 
 ''All services and police forces are looking for where they are, '' said Miroljub Labus, deputy prime minister.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); WAR CRIMES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ARRESTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); POLICE FORCES (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%) EUROPE (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); SERBIA (96%); MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



256 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: State Agency Backs Jets' Stadium, but Hurdles Remain

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Empire State Development Corporation formally approved the Jets' proposed $2.2 billion stadium yesterday, the team's second victory in two weeks in a bruising, four-year quest for a new home in Manhattan.
 The 75,000-seat stadium over the West Side railyards is at the center of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics and its plans for the neighborhood's redevelopment. But it is also the subject of criticism and lawsuits from community organizations, major civic groups and Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden and views the stadium as competition.
 The development corporation's decision, which was not unexpected given that Gov. George E. Pataki supports the project, set the stage for a showdown in Albany. The project still needs the support of Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, before construction can begin. 
 The state's top two legislators have expressed misgivings about plans to build the stadium, which would be the most expensive in the world, and are reluctant to move quickly. In an effort to prod them into action, the Jets sent a letter to Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno on Friday saying the city could lose the 2010 Super Bowl, now scheduled for the proposed stadium, if it does not get final approval by the end of May.
 Ultimately, the project needs approval by the state's Public Authorities Control Board, whose three members are appointed by the governor, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno.
 But in an interview yesterday, Mr. Silver remained unmoved.
 ''I understand they're trying to close a deal,'' Mr. Silver said of the Jets' letter. ''It doesn't mean I have to give it a lot of credibility.''
 In recent days, Mr. Silver has said that he does not believe the revenue projections for the stadium and is concerned about traffic congestion and pollution on game days. He has also complained that the mayor and the governor are focused on the West Side, while the rebuilding effort in his district downtown is in disarray.
 He and Mr. Bruno have also disregarded Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's contention that the International Olympic Committee will bypass New York when it picks a site for the 2012 Games in July if the stadium is not approved. They say there is no need to decide on the stadium before the committee's selection. 
 L. Jay Cross, the president of the Jets, who flew to Albany immediately after the vote by the development corporation, said the stadium would not be ready to open in time for the 2010 Super Bowl unless he ordered 17,000 tons of steel by the end of May. He said he could not do that unless the project was approved.
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the development corporation, called the 6-0 vote another ''positive step'' in the development of the stadium, officially called the New York Sports and Convention Center. ''This is an economic development project that will strongly enhance New York's ability to attract conventions and conferences,'' he said after the 14-minute meeting.
 The city and the state have said they will provide a $600 million subsidy for the project, with the team covering the remaining cost of the stadium. The state is also providing sales and mortgage tax exemptions worth tens of millions of dollars.
 The Jets have lined up a large block of supporters in the Legislature. And the city is putting together an incentive program to spur commercial activity downtown, which it hopes will mollify Mr. Silver.
 On March 31, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted to sell development rights over the railyards to the Jets for what the authority now says is $250 million, while rejecting the Garden's $400 million bid.
 The Garden issued a statement yesterday condemning the development authority's decision to approve the stadium, while insisting it was still committed to buying the property. ''Taking only minutes to consider a wildly unpopular football stadium plan which requires more than $1 billion in taxpayer subsidies is an outrageous rubber stamp by handpicked political appointees which shows utter disregard for any public input from the taxpayers of New York,'' the statement said.
 A hearing is scheduled for May 3 in State Supreme Court regarding a suit the Garden filed against the transit authority, the city and the Jets, claiming that the authority violated its duty to commuters by ignoring a higher offer and that the process was rigged in favor of the Jets.
 The stadium faces lawsuits challenging the project on environmental grounds, and opponents say that more are on the way. The opposition is hoping to delay approval of the stadium until July, when it expects the Olympic Committee to pick Paris for the Games, halting the project. 
 ''If this plan was put to a public review, it would be rejected as contrary to everything this community needs and wants: schools, housing and open space,'' said Kinsey Casey, a spokeswoman for the Hell's Kitchen/Hudson Yards Alliance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



257 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Rallies on Fed Plan for Minimal Rate Increases

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Reassuring words from the Federal Reserve generated late-session stock and bond rallies yesterday, as minutes from the Fed's March 22 meeting showed it planned to stick with ''measured'' interest rate increases, at least in the short term. A sharp drop in oil prices also helped Wall Street recover.
 While the possibility of higher and more aggressive interest rate increases remains a concern, investors were relieved to see that the Fed's Open Market Committee was willing to keep interest rate increases minimal even as signs of inflation in the economy increased.
 The Fed raised the nation's benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point at that meeting to 2.75 percent, the seventh such increase since last summer. 
 ''What the Fed's saying here is basically that the economy is doing all right and that we've got our eye on the ball,'' said Bryan Piskorowski, market analyst at Wachovia Securities. ''The market was going into this expecting the worst, and now that we see a little less hawkish demeanor with this announcement, the market's got some wiggle room.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 59.41 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,507.97. The Dow had fallen more than 87 points earlier in the session, nearing its intraday lows for the year before the Fed minutes were released.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 6.55 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,187.76, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 13.28 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,005.40.
 Oil prices dropped for the sixth time in the last seven sessions after the International Energy Agency forecast slower growth in demand. A barrel of light crude settled at $51.86, down $1.85, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Stocks fell early in the session after the Commerce Department said the nation's trade deficit hit an all-time high of $61 billion in February, a 4.3 percent increase over January.
 In company news, American International Group climbed $1.10, to $53.20, after analysts at Merrill Lynch reiterated a buy rating on the Dow component's stock. The move came as the former chairman, Maurice R. Greenberg, met with regulators and did not answer their questions about the company's business practices.
 Verizon Communications plans the sale of 132 million additional common shares to raise nearly $8.2 billion, which would more than cover the costs of acquiring MCI. Verizon added 29 cents, to $35.19, while MCI was up 8 cents at $26.09.
 Abbott Laboratories said profits rose 1.8 percent from a year ago, and the drug maker's earnings were in line with Wall Street's forecasts. The company also reiterated its profit estimates for the rest of the year. Abbott edged 15 cents higher, to $47.90.
 Genentech rose $1.12, to $57.72, as the company reported a 61 percent increase in profits on the strength of its cancer drug sales. The biotechnology company beat Wall Street estimates by 4 cents a share, helped in part by sales of Avastin, a colon cancer treatment that has shown promise in battling other types of cancer.
 The online broker Ameritrade Holding said its quarterly profits fell 12 percent as the number of customer transactions fell sharply. While Ameritrade still surpassed Wall Street profit forecasts by a penny a share, the company also experienced a very high customer attrition rate. Ameritrade climbed 45 cents, to $11.15.
 Bonds rose sharply after the Fed minutes were released. The 10-year Treasury note gained 18/32, to a price of 97 5/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.35 percent from 4.43 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of the auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.801
High Rate: 2.555
Coupon Yield: 2.596
Low Rate: 2.530
Median Rate: 2.540
Total applied for: $33,905,257
Accepted: $13,460,382
Noncompetitive: $104,261

The four-week bills mature May 12, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (80%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (80%); ABT (NYSE) (80%); ABT (LSE) (80%); ABL (FRA) (80%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); VZC (LSE) (63%); VZ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



258 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: SECURITY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: 3 Indicted in Suspected Plot On East Coast Finance Sites

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and ERIC LICHTBLAU; Sarah Lyall contributed reporting from London for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12 

 BODY:
Three men have been indicted in the suspected terrorist plot at financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington that led to the security crackdown last summer in the Northeast, the Justice Department announced Tuesday.
 A four-count federal indictment unsealed Tuesday said the men conducted scouting missions from the summer of 2000 through April 2001 at the New York Stock Exchange and Citicorp building in New York, the Prudential Building in Newark and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington.
 The authorities provided few new details about the suspected plot but said they were convinced that there were plans under way to attack the financial centers until last August, when the United States raised its terror alert level and Britain arrested a group of eight suspects in connection with the case. ''This conspiracy was alive and kicking up until August of 2004,'' James B. Comey, the deputy attorney general, said in announcing the indictment. 
 The three men charged in the indictment were among the eight suspects jailed and charged in Britain last August in connection with the plot against the financial centers. The authorities identified the three men as Dhiren Barot, 32; Nadeem Tarmohammed, 26; and Qaisar Shaffi, 25. They are awaiting trial in Britain on terrorism-related charges for possessing plans, notebooks and other material that could be used in an attack.
 In the American case, each of the three was charged with conspiracy to use unconventional weapons in the United States and providing material support to terrorists. If convicted, each faces a maximum sentence of life in prison.
 American officials said that they would seek to have the suspects extradited from Britain at some point but acknowledged that the timing was uncertain. A British official said Tuesday that the government would not even consider extraditing the men until their trial was over.
 Mr. Comey said, ''The conspiracy laid out in the indictment was designed to kill as many Americans as possible, and the alleged surveillance of these buildings makes these allegations all the more serious.'' 
 The prosecution ''highlights the nature of the enemy we face,'' he added. ''And that's an enemy that is patient, that is spread throughout the world, and that is bent on killing Americans in a spectacular way.''
 It was unclear why American prosecutors decided to bring charges now, about eight months after the plot was disclosed, and the indictment provided few new details about the nature of the plot. In fact, last summer's best-selling final report from the Sept. 11 commission went into greater detail in some areas than did the indictment. 
 The commission report said that Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, suspected of masterminding the Sept. 11 attacks, sent Mr. Barot to Malaysia to receive terrorist training and, at the direction of Osama bin Laden, then sent him to the United States in early 2001 ''to case potential economic and 'Jewish' targets in New York City.'' A footnote indicated that the information came from a 2003 interrogation of Mr. Mohammed, who remains in custody at an undisclosed location. 
 The plot was initially disclosed last August when the authorities ratcheted up the country's threat level in the three cities after warnings of an election-year attack on the United States. 
 The alert led to sweeping security precautions in the three cities and severely restricted access to the Republican National Convention in New York. It also led to charges and speculation from some Democrats that the timing of the announcement, three months before the November election, was meant to bolster President Bush's standing as a president tough on terrorism.
 Mr. Comey denied any political calculations either in raising the threat level last summer or announcing the new charges on Tuesday. ''This is driven by the facts and the law,'' he said. Authorities have defended raising the alert, which they acknowledged was based on largely dated information, on the grounds that Al Qaeda is known to engage in lengthy planning before carrying out an attack and to remain fixed on particular targets for years.
 The indictment said that in 1998, Mr. Barot was an instructor at one of Mr. bin Laden's training camps in Afghanistan where recruits received training in weapons and paramilitary tactics. In 2000, Mr. Barot applied to an unidentified college in New York where he was admitted for the 2000 and 2001 school years, although he never enrolled at the school or attended any classes.
 Mr. Barot and Mr. Tarmohammed arrived at Kennedy International Airport on Aug. 17, 2000, on the same flight from Britain, the indictment said. In late August, they traveled to Washington and returned to Britain on separate flights. In March 2001, Mr. Barot and Mr. Shaffi made a similar trip to the United States. 
 At the time of the security alert last summer, the authorities said that most of the surveillance activity took place before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The indictment said the men conducted surveillance at the buildings between August 2000 and April 2001, including video surveillance in 2001. The travel, planning and resources committed to the surveillance operation form the basis for the charges in the indictment that the men provided ''material support'' to terrorists, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXTRADITION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRISONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



259 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Oil Helped Push U.S. Trade Deficit to $61 Billion in February

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit expanded in February for the third month in a row, reaching a record $61 billion, as the rising cost of oil and America's unrestrained appetite for foreign goods propelled imports to unprecedented heights.
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that imports ballooned to $161.5 billion, $2.6 billion more than in January. Meanwhile, exports remained virtually flat at $100.5 billion. Over all, the nation recorded a $64.7 billion deficit in the trade of goods, slightly tempered by a $3.7 billion surplus in services. 
 ''It's an extraordinarily unprecedented trade deficit,'' said Ernest H. Preeg, a senior fellow at the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a policy research group in Arlington, Va. ''It reflects a big imbalance in the global economy.''
 Rising oil prices were a big part of the story. Petroleum and petroleum products accounted for two-thirds of the monthly increase in imports. Yet imports of nonoil goods rose by 0.6 percent to a record $117.4 billion. ''It's not just oil,'' said Richard D. Rippe, chief economist of the Prudential Equity Group. ''It was in a lot of categories.'' 
 Investors in financial markets shrugged off the yawning trade gap, lifting the dollar against major currencies anyway, in expectation that the Federal Reserve would keep ratcheting up interest rates to head off inflation.
 Yet economists acknowledged that the higher-than-expected deficit in the nation's external accounts would take a bigger slice out of economic growth in the first quarter, as foreign producers capture a larger share of American demand. ''Demand must grow faster than income to overcome the import drag,'' said Charles Dumas, chief international economist at Lombard Street Research in London.
 Indeed, David Greenlaw and Ted Wieseman, economists at Morgan Stanley, actually shaved 0.7 percent off their estimate of economic growth in the first quarter of the year, reducing it to 3.4 percent from 4.1 percent.
 The trade deficit is growing despite a protracted decline in the value of the dollar against major currencies like the euro, the yen and the Canadian dollar, which should, in theory, bolster the competitiveness of American producers in foreign markets. Exports in February were only 8.7 percent higher than in the same month of 2004, whereas imports were 17 percent higher.
 Some economists argue that it is normal to see a long lag between a currency slide and adjustments in trade accounts.
 But others pointed to the fact that the Chinese government has not allowed the dollar to fall at all against the yuan, and blamed China -- which alone accounts for more than a quarter of the United States' total trade deficit -- for digging America's deepening trade hole. 
 ''China and some other Asian nations continue to keep the dollar artificially high so they can keep their exports to us far higher than they would be without such antimarket manipulations,'' said Frank Vargo, vice president for international economic affairs of the National Association of Manufacturers, in a statement.
 Actually, the United States' deficit with China in the trade of goods narrowed somewhat, to $13.9 billion in February from $15.3 billion in January, not seasonally adjusted. The deficit with the euro area countries, meanwhile, increased 6.6 percent, to $6.5 billion, and the deficit with Japan grew by nearly 11 percent, to $6.9 billion. 
 Yet the American deficit with China was tempered by the Chinese New Year festivities in mid-February, which disrupted factory output. On a longer-term trend, the deficit was $5.5 billion bigger than it was in February last year, and China is quickly gaining market share. 
 For instance, Bob Piazza, the president of the Price Pump Company in Sonoma, Calif., said that the company buys about 75 percent of its parts -- mainly metal castings -- from abroad, up from 10 percent seven years ago. While Price Pump's exports, mainly to Europe, have doubled over the past year and a half, imports, mainly from China and India, have tripled. 
 Mr. Preeg argued that the undervalued yuan and its ripple effect -- which keeps currencies undervalued throughout East Asia -- were responsible for about one-quarter of the American trade deficit. 
 Other economists, however, argue that America's persistent trade hole has little to do with China and more to do with American consumption, which is being financed by foreigners' placing their money in United States government Treasury bonds and other American assets.
 Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard, observed that the United States current-account deficit, mainly the trade deficit but also other short-term financial flows like interest payments, amounts to 70 percent to 80 percent of the current-account surpluses of all the other countries in the world put together. ''The Asians are not responsible for the lack of savings in the United States,'' Mr. Rogoff said. 
 Mr. Rogoff added that Chinese exports to the United States typically contained only 20 percent Chinese-made content. So, if China and its neighbors were to revalue their currencies by, say, 30 percent, prices at Wal-Mart might rise 5 percent but the American trade deficit would barely budge.
 Nonetheless, the growing frustration about the nation's trade performance could tempt policy makers to raise trade barriers against the Asian export powerhouse. Earlier this month, the Commerce Department said it would look into the need to reimpose trade quotas that were lifted just three months ago on a wide variety of Chinese apparel.
 Mutterings against Chinese competition can also be heard in Europe, where companies have suffered as the decline in the dollar blunted their competitive edge versus their American competitors and weakened their position in East Asia, where most currencies followed the dollar down.
 As China gains market share throughout the industrial world, the frustration could deepen. ''There will be a trade backlash at some point,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''There's fraying at the edges both in Europe and the United States.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A train carrying shipping containers at the Port of Los Angeles last month. United States imports amounted to $161.5 billion in February. (Photo by Reed Saxon/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



260 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: In Secret Talks, Leaders Revise Albany Budget

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 12 

 BODY:
Twelve days after they passed New York's first on-time budget in 21 years, state lawmakers and Gov. George E. Pataki changed important provisions of the plan on Tuesday night after secret negotiations among the state's leaders.
 The revised budget was an unexpected coda to what many thought was a year of remarkable progress in the capital when lawmakers used public, bipartisan negotiations to pass a budget by the March 31 deadline, in daylight, with much fanfare.
 Tuesday's deal was a reversion to form: it was struck after private deliberations, and lawmakers had to wait into the night for bills to be printed so they could vote. Even as they prepared for the votes, the state's leaders were hazy about how much money the revised plan called for spending this year. 
 The agreement ended a standoff spawned by passage of the on-time budget. Mr. Pataki said he would use new powers granted him by the courts to refuse to make changes that the Legislature sought, and he threatened dozens of vetoes by the end of Tuesday if a consensus was not reached. By evening, after the leaders met in private, the sides said they had worked out the differences.
 Governor Pataki, who had objected frequently that the Legislature was planning to spend too much in the budget it passed in March, ended up accepting most of their new spending. But he praised the deal, which his aides said would add up to a $106.6 billion spending plan, effusively on Tuesday night, saying it was ''not only an on-time budget, but a good budget.'' 
 As a result, the Legislature prepared to pass a number of programs that their disputes with the governor had forced them to leave out of their original budget, including $150 million to protect the environment, $150 million for construction projects at private colleges and $1.1 billion in federal surplus aid for the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program to help the poor get job training and child care.
 Much of the new spending would be covered by federal money, but there was also an agreement to extend a sales tax on clothing that had been set to expire, a plan to increase taxes on nursing homes, and provisions to cut costs that the Pataki administration estimated would save $300 million. Sheldon Silver, a Democrat and the speaker of the State Assembly, said the budget was largely the work of the lawmakers, who agreed on many of the provisions in public conference committees. And Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican and the Senate's majority leader, praised the fact that the state budget was done in record time. 
 Still, after an early budget season that lawmakers had hoped would signify a startling turnabout from the culture of dysfunction in Albany, the return to a process of a handful of powerful officials quietly making deals was disappointing to government watchdog groups. Some lamented the fact that the two bills outlining the deal were written during secret negotiations and sent to the Legislature by the governor in what is known as a ''message of necessity,'' allowing lawmakers to bypass a constitutional requirement to let three days pass after the printing of a bill before voting on it.
 ''I guess I would say they had a virtual budget on March 31,'' said Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group. ''It's such a step up for them to get almost all their work done on time that I don't know that I would chide them too much over this. But it is unfortunate that they reverted to doing this under so-called emergency conditions, without giving the public time to have a look-see at the legislation.''
 However, as the hours ticked down to a midnight deadline for the governor to wield his veto pen, lawmakers said their actions were necessary to keep Mr. Pataki from keeping programs for the environment and the needy out of the budget and from cutting several allocations they added to his budget plan. Rank and file lawmakers said the process, though practical, was not preferred.
 ''You know, there's a little bit of nostalgia going on here,'' said Senator Michael A.L. Balboni, a Republican from Long Island. ''This was in the dark of night, it was 'three men in a room,' and it was not part of the legislative conference committee process, but it is the final details of the budget. Everybody caved a little to get this.''
 Mr. Silver, while rejoicing in the final product, blamed the governor for the last-minute rush to votes. ''I'm apologizing to you and to the public for having to do this at night,'' Mr. Silver told reporters at a news conference shortly before 8 p.m. ''Because I don't think it's right, but we have no choice, and we didn't dictate that.''
 Mr. Bruno said that pushing to finish the budget late at night was ''inappropriate,'' and added, ''if we had a choice, we wouldn't be doing it.''
 Even with the last-minute deal, Governor Pataki said he would make three vetoes. He said that he would veto two changes that the Legislature made to his proposals for lawyers and prosecutors handling death penalty cases, and that he would strike down their plan to change the way the state spends money collected from utility ratepayers on environmental programs. But he held up a stack of vetoes he said he would have made if the agreement had not been reached. 
 Lawmakers said they got almost everything they wanted. ''In the end, we had to take yes for an answer,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who often criticizes the governor.
 Although the governor had assailed lawmakers for restoring nearly $700 million of the $1.1 billion in cuts he wanted to make to Medicaid, little of the Legislature's work was changed in the deal struck on Tuesday. 
 Lawmakers agreed to add an increase of one percentage point to a tax on nursing homes the governor wanted. They also agreed to some changes in the health insurance program for 340,000 poor New Yorkers, known as Family Health Plus, requiring co-payments for dental care and tailoring the plan for eyeglasses to the one provided to state employees. They agreed to defer a plan to spend $80 million on upstate nursing homes in a deal that was tailored to please 1199/S.E.I.U., the powerful health care workers union. And they agreed on how to create a commission to work on closing hospitals, something the governor wanted to ensure a $1.5 billion federal waiver.
 On economic development, they revamped a plan to overhaul one of the state's biggest economic development program, the Empire Zones, which gives tax breaks to attract businesses and create jobs.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Assemblymen Richard L. Brodsky, holding papers, and Jose R. Peralta took a break yesterday outside the Assembly chamber. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FAMILY SERVICES (68%); FAMILY (66%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (66%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); TAX INCREASES (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Law and Legislation

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Al Baker; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



261 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Monday about the financial crisis facing New York State's hospitals referred incorrectly at one point to the number of beds that they have lost in the last 15 years. As noted elsewhere in the article, they have lost 9,100 beds, not 20,000. The article also referred imprecisely to Mount Sinai Hospital's outpatient clinics. It has closed some of them, not all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



262 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Midwest: Michigan: Detroit Mayor Calls For More Layoffs

BYLINE: By Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

 BODY:
Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick of Detroit announced plans to eliminate another 754 city jobs, cut pay by 10 percent and renegotiate health care plans for city employees in a draft budget presented to the City Council. The layoffs would include the police and fire departments and emergency medical services. The plan would also end city financing for the zoo and the historical museum and put new taxes on fast food and property transfers. Earlier this year, Mayor Kilpatrick announced the elimination of more than 900 jobs as the city battled a budget deficit of more than $300 million. Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



263 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Gannett Earnings Decline

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Gannett Company, which owns 21 television stations and publishes newspapers including USA Today, said yesterday that its quarterly earnings fell 3.2 percent, the first drop since 2001, as broadcast profit declined and costs rose.
 First-quarter net income was $265.7 million, or $1.05 a share, compared with $274.4 million, or $1, a year earlier, Gannett said. 
Per share earnings rose after the company bought back stock. Sales rose 3.6 percent to $1.79 billion.
 Quarterly profit fell short of the $1.06 a share average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 TV revenue will be in the ''mid- to high-single digits'' in the second quarter, the company said. Paper costs rose 4.3 percent and rising interest rates increased the cost of servicing debt.
 The broadcast unit's profit fell 16.4 percent to $58.7 million, while revenue declined 2.9 percent to $165.6 million. Advertising revenue at Gannett's USA Today and 101 daily newspapers in the United States rose 5.3 percent to $1.2 billion on higher local ad sales, while operating income rose 5.4 percent to $413.6 million.
 Shares of Gannett, which is based in McLean, Va., rose $1.19, or 1.5 percent, to close at $80. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



264 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Manhattan; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Showrooms That Fit Like a Glove

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
The Fulton Fish Market is packing up and moving to the Bronx. The butter-and-egg district vanished decades ago, well before the area became known as TriBeCa. Only a handful of advertising agencies still call Madison Avenue home. And steep rents in a newly fashionable residential neighborhood are putting the squeeze on the tiny Flower District near Chelsea.
 As the list grows, finding Manhattan blocks that are tied tightly to one industry is getting as hard as finding a T-shirt tag that reads ''Made in U.S.A.'' 
 Yet an effort to group like-minded businesses in the Garment District seems to be flourishing, although such groupings are not splayed out but arranged under single roofs.
 Seven specialty buildings managed by Adams & Company, a Manhattan real estate firm, dedicate 1.9 million square feet of commercial space to specific segments of the fashion industry: coats, for example; or accessories like gloves, hats and jewelry; or children's clothes.
 The buildings are some 99 percent leased, according to the company, although it has taken a while. For years, Adams struggled to condense the children's clothes industry from three locations into the Children's Wear Center at 34 West 33rd Street, and after some money-losing years has recently brought the building close to full occupancy.
 Typically, businesses might cluster to realize economies of scale. Buying raw materials like copper or cotton in bulk instead of individually, for instance, could save each manufacturer lots of money.
 Here, though, almost none of the 290 tenants still makes clothes on site, and the philosophy seems closer to that in locating a Burger King near a McDonald's, or clustering theaters and restaurants: to succeed, you need to make the options easy for the customer.
 In the Garment District, there are buyers for stores from around the world. ''They don't want to spend their week in New York running from building to building,'' said David L. Levy, a principal of Adams & Company. ''They like the idea of just hopping an elevator to go to their next appointment.''
 For women's handbags, a buyer would head to the Fashion Accessories Center, a 13-story, 319,200-square-foot 1920 building at 10 West 33rd Street, where the ''list by type of product'' option on the lobby's touch-screen kiosk directs him or her to the right floor. 
 After extensive renovations, the offices within the Fashion Accessories Center sport tall windows and shiny oak floors, and pinpoint track lights have replaced dingy drop ceilings. 
 The spaces vary from 900 square feet to 20,000 square feet, though most are in the 2,500-square-foot range, and they lease for $35 a square foot annually in 3- to 10-year leases. That price, real estate professionals say, is 50 percent higher than the market rate in the neighborhood for Class B buildings, meaning somewhat dated properties with less than splendid addresses.
 Smaller tenants, like the handbag makers Chinese Laundry, Hobo International and Barganza, value these clean, bright spaces because they work well as showrooms.
 ''Our space used to have a Willy Loman look,'' said Linda DeRosa, likening her old linoleum-layered showroom to a set piece in ''Death of a Salesman.'' 
 In 2000, Ms. DeRosa moved her handbag-and-belt business at 320 Fifth Avenue, where she had been for years, to a 1,600-square-foot space on the 10th floor of the Fashion Accessories Center. Her rent rose about 10 percent, but she says that the change was worth it. 
 ''It's more sparse here, so the merchandise can speak for itself,'' she said.
 Adams likes the spaces' modular nature. Because these tenants tend not to customize their offices, they can be easily swapped in and out.
 At the Outerwear Center at 463 Seventh Avenue, a 22-story, 408,511-square-foot building that was constructed in 1925, there are 54 tenants, just one shy of full occupancy. They pay $30 a square foot for spaces that range from 1,000 square feet to 22,000 square feet, Mr. Adams said.
 Other buildings command less rent per square foot, but mostly because the tenants take larger spaces. In the Menswear Center, a 19-story, 160,000-square-foot building at 42 West 38th Street, for example, tenants like Perry Ellis pay $27 a square foot, Mr. Levy said. Larger tenants do tend to customize their spaces. 
 Adams takes a piecemeal approach to renovation, sprucing up spaces only as leases expire, part of a $30 million process that has been going on since the firm took over the properties in 1999. Other touches have included installing new elevators and electrical systems, and repainting hallways.
 ''They were in tough shape,'' Mr. Levy said.
 The transition from old to new fashion businesses -- from noisy, cramped factories to hushed, airy front offices -- has created some interesting bedfellows at the Contemporary Fashion Building at 231 West 39th Street. Orderly showrooms for Hard Tail Forever and James Perse are down the hall from Gelberg Braid, whose looms have been clattering away since 1930.
 This is something of an anomaly. For the most part, fashion houses in the Garment District have outsourced pattern making, cutting and storage to companies overseas -- the neighborhood suffered a 31 percent drop-off in clothing factory jobs from 1988 to 2000, and a 61 percent decline in textile factory jobs in the same period, according to figures from the Fashion Center Business Improvement District, which leases space in an Adams building.
 This means that Garment District fashion houses require a lot less space, so they can move from the avenues -- their longtime locations -- to smaller spaces on the side streets. In fact, two old garment buildings, 1350 Broadway and 1328 Broadway, are now being converted to office space, forcing tenants to look elsewhere, a situation that has benefited Adams, Mr. Levy said.
 But as SoHo discovered long ago, there are also aesthetic benefits to setting up shop in former factories. ''These open spaces have a creative and artsy identity, which appeals to young designers,'' said Barbara Randall, the business improvement district's executive director.
 John Powers, regional chairman of the real estate firm CB Richard Ellis, who sees many examples of decentralization by Manhattan industries, said the fashion business was bucking the trend, becoming more centralized instead of less. 
 ''The competitive advantages of being clustered together have been offset over time by functionality and cost,'' Mr. Powers said. ''But fashion operates more like a retail business, so it's still beneficial.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Fashion Accessories Center on West 33rd Street, Ronald Gordon, left
David L. Levy, center, of the real estate firm Adams & Company
 and Daniel M. Friedman pay homage to a common theme, the handbag. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PURCHASING (76%); APPAREL MFG (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (66%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ADAMS & CO LTD (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (71%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



265 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: The Outsider, Staying Put at Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
At a memorial service in January, two men joined in a hard, awkward embrace: Philip J. Purcell, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley and Robert G. Scott, a former president of the firm who was forced out of his job by Mr. Purcell in 2003.
 Mr. Scott, who is now leading a campaign to oust Mr. Purcell, quickly joined a crowd of Morgan Stanley bankers mourning the death of the firm's former chairman, Richard B. Fisher. Mr. Purcell made his exit from Riverside Church in upper Manhattan alone.
 Two weeks into the battle for control of one of Wall Street's oldest firms, Mr. Purcell, who has used his outsider status to secure a string of successes, now finds his job and legacy at stake because of his uneasy relationship with the Wall Street establishment. 
 But the independent directors have now written a letter to the dissident executives, reaffirming their support for Mr. Purcell and his management team and asking that the executives stop their campaign to oust him, said a person close to the firm. In the letter, the directors called the campaign destructive and damaging to the firm and its shareholders. The letter, which will be delivered today, is the first formal communication from the board to the dissidents, and underscores the board's support for Mr. Purcell. 
 Mr. Purcell is taking his own steps and is drawing closer to his own power base: his hand-picked board, his small cadre of loyalists and the foundation upon which he has built today's Morgan Stanley: the Main Street brokers from Dean Witter. 
 Last week during a tour of Europe, Mr. Purcell arrived in Portugal to address a retreat for the firm's top-producing 175 brokers. They represented the very core of Mr. Purcell's support at the firm, financial salesmen from across the United States, who have become millionaires under Mr. Purcell. So when Mr. Purcell stepped up to the dais at a conference room at the Ritz in Lisbon, the standing ovation was long and raucous -- exceeding even other boisterous receptions Mr. Purcell has received from his base when he took Dean Witter public in 1993 and merged it with Morgan Stanley in 1997.
 After a week of public vilification, the cheers were a welcome tonic for Mr. Purcell.
 ''Any time you stand in front of a group of people that you have led and they show you appreciation, it makes you feel very good,'' Mr. Purcell recalled with a rueful chuckle in an interview late yesterday.
 His board, despite a barrage of criticism remains loyal -- supporting his decision to shake up management and proposed a spinoff of the Discover credit card. 
 Mr. Purcell said that he has been in constant contact with his directors. ''They are doing their job in a very responsible way,'' he said, adding that he still had the board's unanimous support. 
 His board has been maligned by the retired executives for being too accommodating and for not having met with the dissident group. But according to the person close to the firm, a number of independent director have apparently been willing to hear out individual dissidents.
 Mr. Scott said last night that there had been only one exchange with a director which was to confirm receipt of their first letter on March 3. This director asked that the letter not be leaked to the media, according to Mr. Scott.
 By all accounts, the conflict has lasted longer than both sides thought it would. The tit for tat public exchanges and the slow drip of executive departures has kept downward pressure on Morgan Stanley's shares, especially since there is a sense that Mr. Purcell has survived the worst of the battle and may not be forced to step down any time soon.
 And while a number of large investors have been impatient with Mr. Purcell's leadership there is no indication that they are all lined up behind the dissidents.
 ''My sense is that investors have focused on the values of their shares,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''They feel that the value of their shares will be enhanced if the debate stopped.''
 At the core of Mr. Purcell's staying power is the loyalty of his Dean Witter executives and the board, notwithstanding the grumbling of the Morgan Stanley executives.
 To be sure, this loyalty remains buttressed by the fact that the Dean Witter executives who got stock in its 1993 public offering have seen their shares soar over 600 percent, making them millionaires many times over. 
 ''I think if you look at the long-term track record, we went public with a market capitalization of $4.6 billion,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''Now, the Dean Witter implied market cap is worth $35 billion. We have built a lot of value since then.'' (Morgan Stanley's market capitalization is currently $60 billion.)
 But more than that, there is a palpable awe over how Mr. Purcell has been able to lift the Dean Witter executives' modest ambitions by creating an anti-Wall Street strategy that in the end led to Dean Witter taking over Wall Street's most venerable and established banking house. 
 William B. Smith, a Dean Witter colleague, recalls a meeting with Mr. Purcell in 1982. Mr. Purcell, who had just been appointed president and had no previous Wall Street experience, presented a 10-year plan for the small brokerage house to focus on credit cards, mutual funds and retail brokers.
 ''I don't know if I ever met anyone who put a 10-year plan together,'' Mr. Smith said.
 By combining a management consultant's affinity for 10-year plans with a salesman's understanding of how to pitch a product, Mr. Purcell has solidified an unbreakable bond with his directors as well as the thousands of his Dean Witter brokers. And by emphasizing the virtue of selling mutual funds to middle-income customers over the riskier ventures dominated by Wall Street's elite, like trading and investment banking, Mr. Purcell and his band of Dean Witter followers forged an outsider mentality that binds them together to this day.
 Mr. Purcell's critics have called him distant and unwilling to cultivate the deep ties with clients and bankers that they contend are the lifeblood of success on Wall Street.
 Since his days as a strategic planner at Sears in the late 1970's, however, Mr. Purcell has had a consistent management style. Relying on his dispassionate analytical skills, he has used his status as an outsider to push through change at previously hidebound institutions. 
 At Sears, he concluded that the giant retailer needed to diversify into other business; at Dean Witter in the 1980's and 1990's, he forcefully pushed his brokers to sell the firm's homegrown mutual funds. 
 And at Morgan Stanley, he has argued that the model of the firm's bankers distributing their investment products through his Dean Witter brokers remains vital. 
 Along the way, he has drawn the ire of the company elite, who have railed against his blunt, unwavering criticisms of their old ways. 
 A veteran of countless corporate intrigues, Mr. Purcell has been quick to force people to leave when they disagree, notably the past three presidents who have served beneath him, John J. Mack, Mr. Scott and most recently Stephan Newhouse.
 ''Any time you make change you upset the status quo,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''As a result you have resistance. And when you have a clear change in terms of management you naturally have more resistance.''
 But by cultivating powerful patrons and supporters, like Edward R. Telling, the chairman of Sears in the late 1970's and his successor, Edward A. Brennan, he has been able to overcome challenges. 
 Raised a Catholic among the Mormons of Salt Lake City, Mr. Purcell is a graduate of Notre Dame. He was first in his Master of Business Administration class at the University of Chicago and in his studies for an advanced degree at the London School of Economics before being named the youngest principal at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company at the age of 27. 
 People who know him say his meteoric rise at Sears and Dean Witter has nurtured an impregnable self-confidence that is hard to shake and that has strengthened his resolve against the mutiny of the retired executives. This appears to have served as a bulwark during times when his ideas are being challenged, and it seems in some ways tinged with a degree of resentment toward the traditional elite of Wall Street and Washington.
 ''The career regulator is the scariest animal I've ever met in my life,'' he was quoted as saying in ''The Big Store,'' a 1987 book by Donald R. Katz that chronicled Sears's attempt to modernize and change its culture. ''The regulator has never met a real person, wouldn't know one if he did. The people who built this country sweat and swear. They get drunk. They don't read Albert Camus when they come home at night -- they drink beer.'' 
 Many of Mr. Purcell's supporters, they see this brand of anti-elitism as representing the essence of the man. 
 ''I think it is time that the Skull-and-Bones Society types to stop controlling Wall Street,'' said Orrin G. Hatch, the Republican Senator from Utah, and a long-time friend of Mr. Purcell. ''I know Phil. He is a tough guy compared to these limp-wristed Ivy Leaguers who want to keep their clubby status. I'm mad, really mad and I will be doggone upset if the gang of eight wins and wrecks this great institution.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip J. Purcell, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, in New York in 2003. (Photo by Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Biographical Information; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Boards of Directors; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: Philip J Purcell; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



266 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Donates $35 Million for Conservation and Will Be Partner With Wildlife Group

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Barely a week after environmentalists forged a broad alliance with organized labor and community groups to attack Wal-Mart and its business practices, the company announced Tuesday that it would donate $35 million over the next decade to an ambitious new conservation effort by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.
 The gift will be used to buy land or secure conservation easements, legal agreements limiting development on a piece of property to protect its ecological value. The land will consolidate existing nature preserves to protect larger areas from development and encroachment. 
 For instance, the purchase of two ranches spanning 1,200 acres will pull together 850,000 acres of protected lands from the Grand Canyon National Park in northern Arizona to Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southern Utah, home to one of the largest remaining stands of old-growth ponderosa pine and a sanctuary for California condors. 
 Some $6 million of the money will be spent on an agreement to protect 312,000 acres of contiguous land between 600,000 acres of protected land in New Brunswick, Canada, and 200,000 acres protected by the State of Maine. The purchase will create an area of roughly 1 million acres of protected land, with more than 50 lakes, 1,500 miles of rivers and streams and 54,000 acres of wetlands, home to 10 percent of Maine's famous loon population.
 ''I cannot overstate the importance of this,'' John Berry, the executive director of the foundation, said of the Maine agreement. ''This is like a Noah's Ark for Eastern wildlife species, everything from big stuff like moose to frogs and salamanders.'' 
 The program created by Wal-Mart and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, called Acres for America, intends to acquire 138,000 acres eventually using Wal-Mart's gift, as much land as the company projects that its American stores, parking lots and supply centers will occupy in 10 years.
 ''It helps demonstrate that economic growth and development can go hand in hand with conservation,'' said Sarah Clark, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, the nation's largest company.
 Ms. Clark said the gift was probably the company's largest single grant to a nonprofit group. It will come directly from the company's coffers, unlike most of Wal-Mart's philanthropy, which is administered by its foundation.
 The foundation distributed $170 million last year, Ms. Clark said.
 She said that the foundation first proposed the grant a year ago and that the final agreement was signed in December, predating the formation of the coalition of Wal-Mart's opponents. The foundation is not part of the coalition.
 Ms. Clark also said it was not Wal-Mart's only effort to improve the environment. In October, the company enrolled its transportation fleet in the Smartway Transport Partnership, a government program to increase energy efficiency and lower air pollution, and it is active in a program to improve the national parks.
 ''Last year, we recycled over 2.8 million tons of cardboard, 9,416 tons of plastic and 49 million disposable cameras,'' Ms. Clark said. Critics of Wal-Mart said they regarded the grant as a publicity stunt to burnish the company's image. 
 ''Certainly, we welcome any contributions toward conservation,'' said Eric Olson, a representative for the Sierra Club's Challenge to Sprawl Campaign, which works on sprawl and transportation issues. ''But we need to look at the totality of Wal-Mart's environmental record, and we can see over the last several years there have been millions of dollars in violations and penalties.''
 Mr. Olson said the company spent $8.6 million in civil penalties and settlement costs, including $3.1 million it paid in civil penalties within the last year to settle charges that it had violated the Clean Water Act in nine states. 
 Mr. Berry said Wal-Mart's contribution was by far the biggest the foundation, a nonprofit organization created by Congress 21 years ago to funnel federal grants to environmental groups, had ever received.
 It is distributing Wal-Mart's money to three nonprofit groups -- the Conservation Fund, the Deschutes Basin Land Trust and the Arkansas chapter of the Nature Conservancy -- that have agreed to match Wal-Mart's donation with money they raise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CHARITIES (77%); MAMMALS (77%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (76%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); WETLANDS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); RIVERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (87%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



267 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: An Ancient City Becomes More Receptive to Modern Architecture

BYLINE: By JASON HOROWITZ

DATELINE: ROME, April 12 

 BODY:
For all its opulence, Rome has long been something of a wasteland when it comes to contemporary architecture. 
 But in the last few years star architects, including the Pritzker Prize winners Zaha Hadid, Renzo Piano and Richard Meier, have designed unorthodox museums, concert halls and churches that city officials hope will add sparkle to the architecturally dull areas surrounding Rome's historic center. 
 ''There is a reawakening of great contemporary architecture here,'' said Claudio Strinati, the city official in charge of Rome's museums, who attributed the renewal to the belated recognition that it is better to respect the ancient city with modern culture, ''to bring the city back to life.'' 
 Lackluster modern architecture in Rome is so pervasive that even the Italian government is doing its part to spark a revival. The Senate is examining legislation to promote better urban architecture after decades of economic expedience and careless design. 
 The movement's centerpiece is Maxxi, the first national contemporary art museum. The 60-million-euro project was designed by Ms. Hadid, an Iraqi-born architect who has lived in London since 1972 and is known for her daring designs. 
 Maxxi (the first two letters stand for Museum of Art, with the Roman numeral XXI denoting the 21st century) will be an achingly modern mesh of overlapping steel and glass corridors housing Italy's growing national contemporary art collection. Models of the project resemble a twisted and tangled railway yard, the sleek tracks of which extend across a site that once played host to Italian Army barracks. By maintaining an old-fashioned street facade, the four-story, 30,000-square-meter complex is intended to strike a harmonious chord with Flaminia, the upscale neighborhood that surrounds it. 
 Still, skeptics suggest that the bold architectural statement is costing the city its identity, as well as costing the government millions of dollars. 
 But Rome's cultural officials hope the new museum will give the city the necessary boost to catch up with or even surpass London, Paris and other European capitals, where contemporary architecture has been firmly planted in the cityscape. 
 ''Hadid is building an architectural landmark; this city needs it and this country needs it,'' said Paolo Colombo, Maxxi's curator and a leading official during the construction, whose apartment looks out onto the work site. ''The general tendency here is to maintain, to go to the same old trattoria, to not touch the ancient stones.'' 
 But this year, it seemed as if Maxxi, too, was destined to become just another Roman ruin. The national government said in January that money for the museum's construction had run out. Government officials scrambled to find the funds, but other snags rooted in Italy's byzantine bureaucracy have pushed the museum's inauguration back to 2007. 
 Rome has waited a long time for another architectural renaissance. The last concerted effort to lavish the city with new buildings came under Mussolini, who built enormous, whitewashed Fascist monuments and buildings meant to echo imperial Rome. Subsequent spurts of investment in new architecture were dwarfed by the energy spent on restoring historical monuments -- ancient and Baroque masterpieces that draw tourists. 
 Some critics are not eager to see the museum built at all, and are generally suspicious of what they see as a rash abandonment of Rome's unique architectural identity in favor of flashy but culturally incompatible projects.
 ''Granted, some of these buildings are interesting, but they have nothing to do with the city,'' said Franco Purini, a prominent Roman architect. ''They are like alien spaceships that have nothing to do with the people who actually live here.'' 
 Nevertheless, Romans seem to be increasingly open-minded when it comes to contemporary design. Many architecture experts pointed to Renzo Piano's 2002 auditorium, with its lead plate roofs resembling armadillos, as providing a pivotal transition. The American architect Richard Meier built a church with three sweeping concrete sails and a glass facade, while the Roman architect Massimiliano Fuksas has designed the city's new conference center, which is meant to look like a cloud suspended in a glass box. 
 ''There has to be a continuity of history,'' said Amedeo Schiattarella, the president of Rome's Architectural Association. ''Contemporary is our way of leaving something of our age. This is a period of big change in Rome.'' 
 Many Roman architects and art connoisseurs believe that more than any other building planned for Rome, Maxxi will be a monument to its times. Even if some critics do not appreciate the museum, some architects say, its grandeur and scope alone suit the city. 
 While the museum's sleek and crisscrossing corridors are a radical departure from the buildings that have made Rome one of the world's architectural treasures, its ambition fits right in.
 ''We're in the city of Bernini and Borromini,'' Mr. Colombo said. ''Bland buildings don't fit in here. A city like Rome needs an architectural statement like this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Contemporary architecture is slowly becoming a more common feature of Rome's landscape. The church at left, on the outskirts of the city, was designed by the American architect Richard Meier. Above, a model of Italy's first national museum of contemporary art, scheduled to open in 2007. It is the work of Zaha Hadid, an architect known for her daring designs. (Photo by Chris Warde-Jones)
(Photo by Zaha Hadid Architects)
 Ms. Hadid, the designer of Maxxi, the planned art museum. (Photo by Heidi Bradner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); RELIGION (72%); ART COLLECTING (72%); ARMIES (52%) Architecture; Art

ORGANIZATION: Maxxi (Rome, Italy)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (91%) Zaha Hadid; Renzo Piano; Richard Meier; Jason Horowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%) ITALY (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%) Rome (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



268 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Critic of Mayor's G.O.P. Switch Made His Own Jump Last Year

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Steve Shaw, a Brooklyn investment banker seeking the Republican nomination for mayor, likes to knock Michael R. Bloomberg, a former Democrat, for being an opportunistic latecomer to the party.
 ''I'm the only Republican in the race,'' he said in December.
 But it turns out that Mr. Bloomberg has been a Republican longer than Mr. Shaw, who only registered with the party last year, shortly before he announced his long-shot bid to unseat the mayor. Prior to that, Mr. Shaw was listed in voter registration records as ''nonpartisan,'' and he confirmed yesterday that he ''was always independent until I decided to run for political office.'' 
 Mr. Shaw's status as a lifelong independent serves as yet another reminder of the difficulty the city's Republicans have finding candidates -- and voters -- whose Republican bona fides run deeper than a coat of varnish.
 Registered Democrats in the city outnumber Republicans five to one, making for an unbalanced political seesaw that is reflected in, among other places, the City Council, where only 3 of the 51 members are Republicans. Most of the major Republican candidates for mayor in recent years -- Mr. Bloomberg, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Herman Badillo -- were Democrats who switched parties, largely for pragmatic purposes and not because they were ideologically conservative.
 This year, the only mayoral candidate whose membership in the Republican Party predates the new millennium is Thomas V. Ognibene, a former City Councilman from Queens.
 Mr. Shaw, 30, emerged on the scene seemingly out of nowhere last year. Raised in Pennsylvania, he moved to New York eight years ago and, by his own account, had no prior involvement in politics before deciding to run for mayor and was not registered with any political party.
 He has since cloaked himself in conservative Republicanism, posting on his campaign Web site a paean he wrote to Ronald Reagan, attacking Mr. Bloomberg for betraying core Republican priorities on taxes and the economy, and belittling the mayor's pre-election decision to join the party in 2000 as ''rent-a-party'' expediency done to avoid competing in a crowded Democratic field.
 Asked whether his own recent switch to the party was similar to Mr. Bloomberg's, Mr. Shaw vigorously disagreed.
 ''It's entirely different; my philosophy has always been conservative,'' he said. ''It's just a matter of crystallizing that with a party affiliation. Mr. Bloomberg has always been a liberal. You'll never see that in any of my history.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); MILLENNIUM (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



269 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: The Untouchable Corps

 BODY:
Anyone who cares about responsible budgeting and the health of America's rivers and wetlands should pay attention to a bill now before the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. The bill would shovel $17 billion at the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control and other water-related projects -- this at a time when President Bush is asking for major cuts in Medicaid and other important domestic programs. Among these projects is a $2.7 billion boondoggle on the Mississippi River that has twice flunked inspection by the National Academy of Sciences. 
 The bill would also weaken civilian control over the corps, a fiercely independent agency that operates in what amounts to a parallel universe in Washington, spending billions on public works projects ordered by members of Congress. The Government Accountability Office and other watchdogs accuse the corps of routinely inflating the economic benefits of its projects. And environmentalists blame it for turning free-flowing rivers into lifeless canals and destroying millions of acres of wetlands -- usually in the name of flood control and navigation but mostly to satisfy Congress's appetite for pork.
 Pointed in the right direction, the corps can accomplish engineering marvels without corollary damage -- the dredging of New York Harbor is a case in point. But too often senators like Christopher Bond, Republican of Missouri, and Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, point it in exactly the wrong direction. The most notorious example is the Mississippi River project, a lock-building plan. It has failed two reviews by the National Academy of Sciences on economic and environmental grounds. 
 Over the years, enlightened senators like John McCain and Russell Feingold have pushed for major reforms, including independent peer review to make sure that corps projects are fiscally and environmentally responsible. Yet the water resources bill drawn up by Mr. Bond and his like-minded colleagues would not only prohibit meaningful outside review but would also undercut the authority of any civilian official -- up to and including the secretary of the Army -- to countermand corps decisions.
 This is a bad piece of legislation. Key Democrats on the committee -- including Hillary Clinton of New York, Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey and Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut -- should make sure it does not emerge from the committee without significant changes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WETLANDS (90%); RIVERS (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICAID (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ARMIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); WATER QUALITY (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%) Public Works; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Water; Floods

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (58%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%) National Academy of Sciences

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KIT BOND (57%); TRENT LOTT (57%); RUSS FEINGOLD (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



270 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Showing Photos, Sharon Urged Bush to Press Iran
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel shared intelligence with President Bush and urged him to step up pressure on Iran to give up all elements of its nuclear program. A1

Bolton Accusations Detailed
A former assistant secretary of state charged that John R. Bolton had so bullied an intelligence analyst over Cuba's suspected weapons programs that it shook the intelligence bureau and prompted the secretary of state to intervene. A1

Iraqi Women Seek Power
Women, who make up a third of Iraq's first elected Parliament in decades, agree they want more political power. But they are divided between those wanting to bring Iraq in line with Islam's divine law and those with more secular views. A1

Suspects Indicted in Terror Plot
Three men have been indicted in the suspected terrorist plot at financial institutions that led to the security crackdown last summer in the Northeast, the Justice Department said. A12

Possible Sainthood for John Paul
The cardinals electing a successor to Pope John Paul II are facing unusual popular pressure to declare him a saint. Some cardinals are responding through deft messages, press leaks and internal lobbying. A1

Car Bomb Kills 4 in Iraq
A suicide bomber detonated a car packed with explosives near an American convoy in Mosul, killing four Iraqis and wounding at least seven. A10

NATIONAL A13-17

Simple Questionnaire Used To Find Risk of Depression
Doctors in New York City have begun to use a simple questionnaire to determine if a patient is at risk for depression, a practice that health officials hope will become a routine part of primary care. A1

Vow by Intelligence Nominee
John D. Negroponte, President Bush's nominee to be the first director of national intelligence, promised to bring change to the broad array of agencies he would oversee. A14

Wal-Mart Conservation Grant
Wal-Mart announced that it would donate $35 million over the next decade to an ambitious new conservation effort by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation just days after environmentalists formed an alliance with organized labor to attack the company's practices. A16

Vermont Debates Drinking Age
A Vermont legislator has introduced a bill to lower the drinking age from 21 to 18, setting off a debate on public safety and age discrimination. A13

Sexual Assault Rattles School
A high school principal in Columbus, Ohio, has been fired and three assistant principals suspended for failing to notify the police about accusations that a special education student was sexually assaulted at school by a group of boys, one of whom videotaped the attack, officials said. A13

Less Progress for Students
Students have made less academic progress during the school year than they did before No Child Left Behind, the education law that was intended to achieve just the opposite, a new study has found. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

New York Budget Changed Late and Out of Public Eye
Lawmakers and Governor Pataki revised key parts of the state's budget in secret negotiations, adding several spending provisions, less than two weeks after they celebrated the first on-time budget in 21 years. A1

Death Penalty Stopped
Democrats in the New York Assembly effectively killed a bill that would have revived the death penalty in the state, and the law now seems likely to stay off the books for years. B1

Pornography Laws Upheld
A state appeals panel upheld New York City amendments aimed at regulating the sex shop industry more tightly. B1

EDUCATION B8

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

DINING IN F1-14

OBITUARIES C19

ARTS E1-10

MoMA Gets Largest Cash Gift
David Rockefeller, chairman emeritus of the Museum of Modern Art, said he had pledged $100 million toward its endowment -- the biggest cash gift ever given to the museum. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Traders Accused of Fraud
Federal prosecutors accused 15 former New York Stock Exchange floor traders of cheating customers by mishandling trades to enrich themselves. C1

Stocks Rise on Fed Report
Notes from a Federal Reserve meeting revealed that policymakers became notably more worried about inflation last month. But investors reacted with relief, pushing stock prices up and long-term interest rates down. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Questioning Mr. Bolton; summertime in Gaza; the untouchable corps.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
Weather D7
TV Listings E9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); EDUCATION LAW (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (74%); RELIGION (74%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (63%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); WILDLIFE (61%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (82%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005



271 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: A Vixen Cartooning In the Face Of Cancer 

BYLINE: By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

 BODY:
The New York-based illustrator Marisa Acocella Marchetto was dressed to turn heads one recent afternoon at Da Silvano, a downtown Italian restaurant frequented by the city's fabulistas. She wore mauve sequined and suede stilettos, fishnet stockings and a curve-clutching pencil skirt with a slit that promised a glimpse of thigh. But the most interesting portion of her ensemble was her black sweater, with its giant jeweled skull sporting Mickey Mouse ears. 
 ''It's all about laughing in the face of death,'' she explained with a wry chuckle. 
 Mrs. Marchetto, 43, has had to learn to do something of the sort since she was found to have breast cancer last May. But rather than view herself as a cancer victim, Mrs. Marchetto prefers a snazzier, more empowering handle: Cancer Vixen. 
 In a six-page cartoon spread in the current issue of Glamour magazine, Mrs. Marchetto chronicles her 11-month bout with cancer, from the first mammogram to chemotherapy and radiation treatments, in poignant and comical detail. She argues with her mother (whom she dubs ''smother''); cries an ocean of tears with a gaggle of best friends; questions God (''Hey you up there, how could you make me a bald, unhealthy, baggage-ridden bride?''); marries her long-time love, Silvano Marchetto, the wonderfully colorful, white-haired owner of Da Silvano; and dabbles in cabala. She also makes a point of wearing designer shoes to her chemo sessions. Session 2: Giuseppe Zanotti sandals. Session 6: White patent leather pumps by Hotel Venus.
 ''I figured if I looked good, I'd feel good,'' Mrs. Marchetto, a self-professed fashion fanatic, said, tucking into a plate of pasta.
 In the cartoon version of her life, Cancer Vixen attends a fund-raiser for a breast cancer book and spots a woman who has covered her smooth pate with a chic silk scarf. ''How stylish is that Pucci headwrap,'' she comments to a friend. ''Maybe I should've gotten the heavier chemo.'' 
 Her friend warns her not to joke about such things. Moments later, two women with closely cropped hair accost Cancer Vixen, wondering why she still has long blond tresses.
 ''I-I-I did the lighter chemo,'' a shrinking Cancer Vixen stammers. 
 ''Change your doctor! Change your protocol!'' one woman screams in response.
 ''You have to be aggressive and bomb the hell out of your body.I did,'' the other adds. 
 ''Some of the moments were not funny when they were actually happening to me,'' Mrs. Marchetto recalled. ''But my mom would be, like, 'Material, material!''' 
 For more than a decade, Mrs. Marchetto has playfully skewered the city's glittery set for publications like The New Yorker and The New York Times. In one of her more memorable New Yorker cartoons, a woman standing at a cash register with a pile of clothing says, ''This isn't for me.It's for the economy.'' In another, a fashion maven leans over a baby carriage and coos, ''Gucci, Gucci, Gucci.''
 Mrs. Marchetto, Glamour magazine's resident cartoonist for three years, said that the idea to share her experience in illustrated form grew out of a conversation with an editor who encouraged her to document her ordeal. She turned in 20 pages of illustrations, which were eventually edited down.
 ''We liked that it was light and funny and she wasn't being too reverent,'' said Cynthia Leive, Glamour's editor in chief. ''You couldn't hear the violins in the background playing.'' 
 Under Bonnie Fuller, who ran the magazine from 1998 to 2001, Glamour was criticized for moving away from its issues-oriented roots toward lighter fare. Though some of that still exists under Ms. Leive -- the current cover boasts ''102 Ways to Dress Your Body Better'' and ''Whoa! The 15 Secret Sex Fantasies Every Guy Has'' -- she has refuses to shy away from issues that can't be delivered in bite-size morsels. After receiving a diagnosis of leukemia in 2001, Erin Zammett, an assistant editor, began writing a bimonthly column about her struggle; Ms. Zammett's memoir, ''My (So Called) Normal Life,'' is due next month from Overlook Press. 
 ''It's not something we do because we think it's the right thing in capital letters,'' Ms. Leive said. ''Health does incredibly well for us, and our readers demand it.'' Yesterday the magazine won the general-excellence award for magazines with circulation of more than two million from the American Society of Magazine Editors. 
 As her husband scurried about his restaurant, berating unruly waiters and joking with his well-heeled clientele, Mrs. Marchetto flipped through her ever-present notebook. There were sketches of staid waiting rooms and women in ''designer hospital gowns,'' and written entries about her experiences. Mrs. Marchetto said she often sketched while waiting to be seen by her doctor. ''It was really important that I got it all down,'' she said.
 When asked what he thought of the Cancer Vixen series, Mr. Marchetto pointed to a panel in which his wife is receiving a breast exam from a smiling male doctor and jokingly declared it ''pornography.'' 
 Mrs. Marchetto completed her radiation treatments last week and is currently cancer free. She said she planned to turn her strip into a book. (The illustrator Harvey Pekar did the same in 1994 with ''Our Cancer Year.'') ''I really want to help women going through this laugh,'' she said. ''That's the one thing that really helped me.''
 Already, St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital has decided to distribute the story of Cancer Vixen to patients who have just received breast cancer diagnoses. Although the reaction to her work thus far has been positive, Mrs. Marchetto acknowledged that some might frown on her decision to crack wise about a disease that will kill more than 40,000 women this year, according to the American Cancer Society. She said that one physician discouraged her even from drawing her experiences.
 ''He thought that I was making light of something that was serious and said it was a bad idea,'' she said. She let out a deep-throated laugh. ''Needless to say, I never went back to him.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts yesterday about Marisa Acocella Marchetto, an illustrator who has a six-page cartoon spread about her struggle with breast cancer in Glamour magazine, referred incorrectly to Harvey Pekar, who made his own experience with cancer the subject of an illustrated book. He is a writer, not an illustrator.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marisa Acocella Marchetto at her apartment. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)Drawing (Drawing by Marisa Acocella Marchetto/Glamour)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); BREAST CANCER (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOTWEAR (77%); HAIR LOSS (72%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (69%); RADIOLOGY (69%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (69%) Cancer; Breast; Comic Books and Strips

ORGANIZATION: Glamour (Magazine)

PERSON: Marisa Acocella Marchetto; Lola Ogunnaike

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



272 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Higher Gas Prices Cut Consumer Spending

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
Consumers spent more on gasoline last month and far less than expected over all, the government said yesterday, suggesting that prices at the pump are starting to curb other purchases. 
 The Commerce Department reported that retail sales in March rose 0.3 percent, to $339 billion, a slower rate than the 0.5 percent increase in February and significantly below Wall Street's forecasts for an increase of 0.8 percent, according to Bloomberg News. 
 ''Higher gasoline prices had an impact on discretionary spending, and obviously a more powerful impact than forecasters thought they were going to have,'' said David Greenlaw, an economist with Morgan Stanley. 
 The new numbers and other recent data, including a slowdown in job growth and a widening trade deficit, suggest that the economy is expanding at a more tepid pace, which could ease the Federal Reserve's concerns about inflation.
 Consumers, encouraged by incentives, pushed auto sales up 0.7 percent, the Commerce Department said. Excluding the volatile auto sector, retail sales rose only 0.1 percent.
 With higher oil prices, gas stations drew nearly 0.9 percent of consumers' spending at $29.6 billion, a 2.1 percent jump. 
 To get a better picture of discretionary spending, economists often exclude spending at auto dealerships and gas stations. In that case, retail sales fell 0.1 percent, the first such decline since April 2004. 
 ''This was a downer,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, a brokerage firm in Rye Brook, N.Y. Added to other economic data, the figures suggest that ''the notion that the economy was really taking off and really firing on all cylinders is wrong.'' 
 The numbers show an unexpected weakening in consumer spending, which amounts to two-thirds of total economic activity. 
 Behind that growth were the lowest interest rates on consumer debt since the 1960's, but the specter of rising rates may be joining higher energy costs and slower wage growth in damping shoppers' spirits. 
 Cold weather in March may have been partly to blame, economists said, keeping people home and making spring fashions unappealing. Sales at specialty clothing stores dropped 1.2 percent. Sales at department stores fell 0.7 percent. 


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.March -- +0.3%Feb. -- +0.5Jan. -- -3.7Graph tracks retail and food services sales since November 2003. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



273 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Pleads Guilty to Trying to Export Arms Parts to Tehran

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
An Iranian businessman pleaded guilty on Wednesday to illegal export and money-laundering charges for trying to send fighter jet parts from the United States to Iran. The case is part of a broader American effort to stem the flow of banned military technology to Tehran.
 The businessman, Abbas Tavakolian, 58, was caught in a sting operation by American Customs investigators after seeking out a contractor in the United States about buying parts for F-4 and F-14 fighter aircraft and sending them to Iran, officials said. Such exports are banned in the United States under a 1995 embargo. 
 His prosecution is the sixth brought by American officials in the last two months involving the illegal exports of military and other technology to Iran, officials said. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau now has 80 open export investigations involving Iran alone at a time when the United States regards that country as an increasing threat because of its nuclear ambitions and military abilities. 
 ''We seem to be seeing an uptick lately in technology to Iran,'' said a law enforcement official with the bureau who spoke on condition of anonymity because investigations into such transfers are still pending. ''Iran and China right now are the two most active in trying to secure this technology, so we're casting wide nets and investigating leads.''
 American intelligence and law enforcement officials say Iran has come to rely on military replacement parts and munitions from the United States and elsewhere, both through unwitting contractors and black-market dealers, in order to replenish its aging fleet of American-made aircraft and other weapons acquired from the United States before the fall of the shah in 1979.
 Officials said Mr. Tavakolian and his son-in-law, Hossein Vazei, who is also facing charges in the United States but is believed to be still in Iran, had acted as middlemen. 
 They sought out military parts from a contractor in the United States, and Customs investigators, after receiving word of their interest, then set up an undercover operation to develop evidence against them, the officials said. According to the plea agreement in the case, Mr. Tavakolian met with American undercover agents in Europe last June in order to buy gun parts to feed ammunition for fighter aircraft as part of a $380,000 deal. 
 In December, he traveled from Iran to the South Pacific to complete the transaction and after directing the sellers to label the parts as ''agricultural equipment,'' was taken into custody by American law enforcement and military officials. 
 He is now being held in American custody in Baltimore, where the case was filed because the undercover front company was set up in Maryland, officials said. He pleaded guilty on Wednesday in federal court in Baltimore to charges of attempted exportation of the banned military technology and money laundering. 
 Under the terms of the plea deal, prosecutors agreed to ask that Mr. Tavakolian spend a maximum of four years and nine months in prison. They agreed not to seek fines. Sentencing is scheduled for July 6.
 Joseph L. Evans, a public defender in Baltimore who represents Mr. Tavakolian, would not discuss the defendant's thinking in agreeing to the plea deal but said in an interview that he was ''really unhappy'' about his current situation.
 ''He's experiencing extreme isolation in custody,'' Mr. Evans said. ''He has no one to speak to because he speaks no English, and no one in any of the facilities speaks Farsi, his contacts with his family are very limited by phone, and he's extremely depressed about the whole thing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Money Laundering; Military Aircraft

PERSON: Eric Lichtblau; Abbas Tavakolian; Hossein Vazei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (65%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



274 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

U.N. Ambassador Nominee Admits to Unusual Request
John R. Bolton, nominated to be the next ambassador to the United Nations, used his position as a senior State Department official to obtain details about intercepted communications involving other American officials that were monitored by the National Security Agency. Access to the names may be authorized by the N.S.A. only in response to a special request, and these are not common, particularly from policy makers. A11

Illegal Exporter Pleads Guilty
An Iranian businessman pleaded guilty to illegal export and money-laundering charges for trying to send fighter jet parts from the United States to Iran, in a case that is part of a broader American effort to stem the flow of banned military technology to Tehran. A5

Lebanon Premier Steps Down
Lebanon's embattled pro-Syrian prime minister stepped down, saying he had failed to win the cooperation of the opposition. The move raised doubts that parliamentary elections would be held before the end of May. Leaders of the opposition movement say his resignation was a delaying tactic, meant to keep power in pro-Syrian hands. A8

Hostage in Iraq Pleads for Life
An American contractor who was kidnapped appeared in a videotape, calling for the American military to withdraw from Iraq and save his life. Meanwhile, insurgents unleashed a string of deadly attacks in Baghdad and northern Iraq that left at least 14 Iraqis dead. A12

British Conspiracy Conviction
British authorities disclosed that only one of nine North African men accused of conspiring to spread deadly poisons two years ago had been convicted. A11

NATIONAL A16-24

Olympic Bomber Releases First Public Explanation
Eric Robert Rudolph issued his first public explanation of his motives and what prosecutors called the most complete description yet of his actions in four bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympics. In the 11-page statement, Mr. Rudolph said he had originally intended to bomb the Olympics every day to embarrass the government for legalizing abortion. A1

Approval of Breast Implants
Silicone breast implants made by a California company should be available to women who undergo cosmetic breast surgery, a federal advisory panel voted, rejecting arguments about serious health problems. A1

Excess Water a Health Risk
Doctors are now saying that drinking too much during intense exercise poses a far greater health risk than dehydration. New research on runners in the Boston Marathon confirms the problem. A1

Intelligence Divisions Decried
The Department of Homeland Security fails at times to adequately collect and share intelligence, Secretary Michael Chertoff told a House committee, blaming lingering divisions among the many agencies merged to create the department. A18

Panel Backs E.P.A. Nominee
Stephen L. Johnson, President Bush's nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, won nearly unanimous approval from a Senate committee, although one member said he might block confirmation by the full Senate. A24

Vote to Repeal Estate Tax
The House voted for the fourth time in four years to repeal the federal estate tax. Repeal of the tax is a central element of President Bush's economic agenda. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-14

$21.8 Million Awarded In Holocaust Restitution
A federal judge in Brooklyn approved the award to surviving members of two Jewish families in a lawsuit that blamed a Swiss bank for collaborating with the Nazis in 1938. The award is one of the largest in the $50 billion restitution programs undertaken since World War II. A1

Episcopal Churches Rebel
Six Connecticut churches have rejected the authority of the bishop of the Connecticut Episcopal Diocese, Andrew D. Smith, because of his liberal views on homosexuality. B1

No Tunnel at Ground Zero
New York State officials have dropped a plan to rebuild West Street-Route 9A as a tunnel alongside the World Trade Center site after objections from Verizon and Goldman, Sachs & Company, which had planned to build a new headquarters on West Street. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-12

ARTS E1-8

Upheaval at La Scala
After abruptly resigning as board president of the orchestra of the Teatro Della Scala in Milan, Fedele Confalonieri, chairman of a major business backer of the orchestra, said he had stepped down out of disgust with the opera house's unions. He also said the company might withdraw its financing of the orchestra. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Military's Health Care Woes
The cost of health care for military veterans and retirees is growing rapidly, and Pentagon officials say they may be forced to choose between the costs of new weapons and old soldiers. C1

Turmoil at Morgan Stanley
Two senior bankers at Morgan Stanley resigned, shaking the firm's prized investment banking division and casting doubt on the ability of Philip J. Purcell to gain control of his divided firm. C1

High Prices for Retail Chains
The retailing industry is gripped in a seller's frenzy, as store chains are being bought for prices that would have been considered exorbitant a few years ago. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A25

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Germany steps up to the plate; brain-dead from sports drinks; Congress's deepening shadow world; Lawrence Downes on the devil we know on the island we love.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); OLYMPICS (68%); RUNNING (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (66%); MARATHONS (60%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



275 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; In a Shopping Frenzy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Investors, Flush With Cash, Go After Retail Chains

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
The ''for sale'' signs are everywhere: Neiman Marcus, Saks and Bill Blass.
 Already this year, America's biggest department store chain, Federated Department Stores, has bought the second biggest, May Department Stores, in a deal valued at $16 billion. K-Mart bought Sears. Jones Apparel Group bought Barney's. Toys ''R'' Us was bought a few months ago by a group of private equity firms and a real estate trust. The retail industry is rife with rumors of who's next: Is it KB Toys? Or J.C. Penney? Or Blockbuster? Or Pier One? 
 ''These days, pretty much everything is for sale,'' said Gilbert Harrison, the chairman of Financo, a New York investment bank that specializes in retail. ''All it takes is money.''
 The retailing industry is gripped by frenzy. Chain stores are selling for prices that would have been considered exorbitant a few years ago. The price for Neiman Marcus, which has only 37 stores and some clearance centers, is a minimum of $5 billion, say executives familiar with the offering. The opening bid for the 232 stores in the Saks department store group, they said, was around $3.5 billion.
 Fueled by billions of dollars of private equity and venture capital that must be spent or returned to investors, plus low interest rates that are inexorably moving higher, sellers are feeling there may never be a better time to get out of the fundamentally risky business of retailing, which is based largely, after all, on the whims of fashion.
 ''This is a kind of perfect storm for the retailers,'' said Peter J. Solomon, the chairman of the Peter J. Solomon investment banking firm. ''These deals are being fueled by real estate expectations and cheap money and not wanting to be left behind.''
 Next week, Myron E. Ullman, the chief executive of J.C. Penney, will lay out what he calls his long-term plans for the company, according to a spokesman, who stressed the phrase ''long term.'' Privately, executives close to Mr. Ullman said that he was angry at a published report that Cerberus Capital and two partners were planning to make a bid for Penney -- a report that has since been privately denied by all parties.
 But Penney is a public company, run by a board of directors. If a group of private investor firms offered significantly more to shareholders than their stock was trading for, retail and legal consultants say, the company would have a fiduciary responsibility to at least consider a deal. Only a privately owned company can turn a deal down flat.
 Since most of the companies in play are public, it makes for uncertainty, analysts and bankers say.
 And it creates a lot of business for head hunters, who help anxious executives search for jobs before their companies are absorbed. Head hunters also find executives for private equity firms that want to buy some stores and know they had better hire somebody with retailing experience.
 ''I'm doing six C.E.O. searches, and five of them are for the private equity firms who are looking for new management, either for companies they own or companies they want to own,'' said Harold D. Reiter, chief executive at Herbert Mines, an executive search firm.
 That's what happened with Vanessa Castagna, who was passed over by Penney for Mr. Ullman's job and who, two weeks ago, went to work for Cerberus after a search conducted by Mr. Reiter. ''Not so long ago, it was a preposterous notion to think of a private equity fund buying Neiman Marcus,'' Mr. Reiter said. ''But now the hedge funds have become market makers.''
 When a company announces it has hired an investment banking firm to help it consider its options --meaning the company is in play -- its stock usually goes up. With the first talk of a possible Federated-May merger after May's chief executive was ousted, May's stock soared 16 percent on Jan. 18, and rose by 9 percent two days later. Neiman Marcus's stock started climbing long before the company hired Goldman Sachs to help it consider its options. Yesterday, several investment bankers said KB Toys, which is still in bankruptcy protection; Blockbuster Entertainment, which is no longer a subsidiary of Viacom; and Pier One, which has been struggling for the last two years, are possible targets for acquisition. Bill Blass has hired UCC Capital, and is preparing a ''black book'' of confidential information about the company for potential bidders, said an executive with knowledge of the company's plans.
 Corporate raider Carl Icahn has been steadily buying shares of Blockbuster, and was widely reported to be unhappy that Blockbuster did not pursue its bid to take over Hollywood Entertainment, a leading competitor. Mr. Icahn has threatened to buy enough stock to control Blockbuster, and bankers say they are examining it for other possible buyers. A Blockbuster spokesman declined to comment; press officers for Pier One and KB Toys did not return calls. 
 Shoppers, meanwhile, are starting to see changes. For example, Federated is altering the name plates on the regional department stores it owned before the May acquisition. 
 Now, analysts debate which stores Terry J. Lundgren, the chairman of Federated, will close. But they agree on one thing: the retailing world changed on Nov. 17, 2004, when Edward S. Lampert announced that he would buy Sears. Mr. Lampert popularized an increasingly important way for potential buyers to look at chains: for their valuable real estate. And now, most private equity firms hire a real estate consultant to advise them or may even ask it to become part of a joint venture.
 In the secretive retailing world, many companies, especially private ones, ''don't put a 'for sale' sign up, but they are conducting very private discussions,'' said Allan J. Ellinger, the senior managing director at M.M.G., an investment banking firm. ''They don't want their employees, their customers or their vendors to know they are being shopped.''
 But Mr. Ellinger agrees with Mr. Harrison. "Right now, in the fashion business, every company fits into one of three columns,'' said Mr. Ellinger. ''There's buyers, and there's sellers, and third, there's those who are temporarily undecided which they are going to be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sales of chain stores began to pick up after Kmart bought Sears, which created Sears Essential stores like this one in Milford, N.H., where Kaylin Wilson works. Neiman Marcus and Blockbuster are among those for sale. (Photo by Jim Cole/Associated Press)(pg. C12)
 (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (97%); DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Industry Profiles; Credit; Interest Rates; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (92%); MACY'S INC (92%); JONES GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Neiman Marcus Group; Saks Inc

TICKER: M (NYSE) (92%); JNY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (54%) Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



276 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Predicts Global Economic Growth in 2005

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The slowdown in global economic growth has begun to bottom out and the world economy appears set for solid expansion in 2005, led by the United States and China, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday.
 The world's gross domestic product will rise 4.3 percent this year and 4.4 percent in 2006 as the expansion remains broadly on track, the I.M.F. reported in its semiannual World Economic Outlook, its most comprehensive look at global trends. 
The forecast for 2005 was unchanged from a previous one in September and compares with growth of 5.1 percent in 2004.
 ''They're calling for a soft landing in the global economy,'' Kenneth Rogoff, the I.M.F.'s chief economist from 2001 to 2003 and now a Harvard University professor, said in an interview. Oil is more than $20 a barrel higher than two years ago and ''the effects of that will be working their way through the system and have to cut growth in 2006.''
 Economic growth is projected to increase 3.6 percent in the United States and by 8.5 percent in China. That is higher than a forecast six months ago for growth of 3.5 percent in the United States and 7.5 percent in China. The I.M.F. lowered its projections for most of the world's other advanced economies like Germany, France and Japan.
 ''We see an increasing divergence in growth across regions,'' Raghuram Rajan, the I.M.F.'s chief economist, said at a news conference. He said that Europe and most of Asia would lag in the the expansion 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



277 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; NATURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1889 words

HEADLINE: Panama Calling To Preserve Its Edens

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

DATELINE: PANAMA 

 BODY:
EDWINA VON GAL, a garden designer based in East Hampton, N.Y., first saw Panama five years ago, while cruising down the Panama Canal on a yacht owned by Jean Pigozzi, an Italian investor. She and her husband, Jay Chiat, the co-founder of Chiat/Day, the advertising agency, were heading for Bahia Honda, a quiet bay where Mr. Pigozzi was buying thousands of acres. ''I loved Bahia Honda,'' Ms. von Gal said. ''But I had no plans to return.'' 
 The next year, Frank Gehry asked Ms. von Gal to create a botanical park for a biodiversity museum he was designing with Bruce Mau for Panama City. ''It was a nice break for me while Jay was sick,'' said Ms. von Gal, who was on hiatus from work to care for her husband, who had prostate cancer. 
 The two had been inseparable since 1997, when Mr. Chiat hired her to design the grounds of his beach home in Sagaponack, N.Y. 
 When Mr. Chiat died in 2002, at age 70, there was a void. She was reluctant to go back to working on fancy gardens in the Hamptons, and Mr. Chiat's assets left her with a newfound freedom. So she went to Panama to immerse herself in a tropical world she knew nothing about -- and found a new path. Just as she had learned about junipers years ago by loading them on and off trucks at an upstate New York nursery, she now followed botanists into the jungle.
 What began as a commission has turned into a mission, as Ms. von Gal and a group of like-minded Americans, lured by cheap land and a government aware of the fragility of its natural resources, are creating a new version of the Gold Coast, a Riviera with an eco-friendly agenda. 
 They are pooling their funds to buy up old cattle ranches before developers buy the land for high-rise resorts, casinos and golf courses. They are reforesting eroded lands, and planning to build with local wood, and local labor, and living off the grid with wind and solar power.
 Last month Ms. von Gal stood on a windy cliff on the Azuero Peninsula, about 200 miles southwest of Panama City. Frangipani trees were blooming everywhere.
 ''People here call them cocoloche,'' she said, stepping lightly, in black flip-flops, over the fresh planks of recently felled teak trees. ''So I call this Punta Cocoloche.'' 
 Ms. von Gal, whose clients include Calvin Klein and Richard Serra, recently bought part of an old cattle ranch here. She will plant trees on the overgrazed hills, and set up temporary quarters in a shipping container, ordered from Panama City. 
 ''I'll put a little porch on the front,'' she said. ''When I leave, the whole thing folds up and locks.'' 
 The land rush began gradually, after the United States transferred control of the Panama Canal to Panama in 1999, and Panama began courting eco-tourists and retirees to bolster a struggling economy. The Panamanian Ruben Blades, a salsa singer and musician, film star, Harvard-trained lawyer and political activist, fled the country with his family in the 1970's, before the dictator Manuel Noriega began his rule of violence and corruption. Now, Mr. Blades is back, as Panama's minister of tourism. 
 ''Noriega is gone,'' Mr. Blades said. ''We have so much to offer in this country. And people are coming in droves.'' 
 The newcomers include Ms. von Gal's friends, Maya Lin, the designer and artist, and her husband, Daniel Wolf, an art collector and investor, who built a house on land in Bahia Honda a few years ago. They introduced her to Ovidio Diaz Espino, a lawyer and investment banker, who, like Mr. Blades and many other native sons, had left the country and come back. Mr. Diaz Espino, who now owns about 300 acres along the coast, invited Ms. von Gal to his low-slung beach house to see the 12-acre sliver of land high on a point across the cove that he wanted to buy to protect his view. It was Punta Cocoloche. Ms. von Gal bought the land with Mr. Diaz Espino for $30,000.
 ''It is a magical place,'' she said. ''But just plain old beautiful is not what would keep me going back. I've got something that I feel I've just got to do there.'' Maybe they will just plant trees. Maybe they will develop a community with friends.
 ''But whatever we do, we want to respect the ecology, bring it back to what it was,'' said Mr. Diaz Espino, who helped lobby against resort development on the fragile island of Coiba, which is now a national park.
 Mr. Diaz Espino has also been reforesting his land with the help of Mark Wishnie, a Yale-trained forester. So far the plantings include more than 40 species of native trees on about 25 acres. Some of these trees, like mahogany, cocobolo and purpleheart, are endangered after generations of slashing and burning for cropland and pastures. 
 Mr. Wishnie co-founded the nonprofit Native Species Reforestation Project (which is also known by its Spanish acronym, Prorena) about four years ago in collaboration with the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. 
 In Bahia Honda, a lusher, more forested landscape than the parched hills of Azuero, which receives 50 percent less rain, Mr. Wishnie is working with Ms. Lin and Mr. Wolf to plant shade-loving cacao, as well as vanilla, which is actually an orchid vine. Both are native to Panama.
 ''If Prorena can prove that these cash crops can be grown, which require forested areas, then they can prove that the local farmers can make money without cutting down trees,'' Ms. Lin said.
 Ms. Lin, in turn, is designing a field station and greenhouse, pro bono, for Prorena, on land donated by Mr. Diaz Espino. 
 Ms. von Gal and Mr. Wishnie are also part of a private corporation founded by ecologically-minded friends that recently bought 200 acres of eroded pastureland. The group will plant trees and build a small number of eco-sensitive houses. The friends named the corporation and the land Madrono, after a native tree. 
 Because Panama is now a big market for second homes for foreigners, they will plant hardwoods to beautify the landscape and improve the habitat for birds and other wildlife, not to mention improve real estate values. 
 All this talk is a long way from Southampton. Though up on the highest hill in Playa Venado, Ms. von Gal's cellphone started ringing. It was an assistant from Calvin Klein's office. How are they going to plant those trees on the roof? 
 Last spring Ms. von Gal began to edit the landscape severely around Mr. Klein's 72-room castle on the Atlantic Ocean in Southampton. Known for her spare plantings, she likes to tell her clients that ''the obvious obscures the obvious.'' Why plant a tree tutu of impatiens, for example, around a magnificent oak?
 Mr. Klein had an overdose of obvious. ''Oh my gosh,'' she said. ''Foo dogs, shark tanks, cascading waterfalls with weeping plants.'' She got rid of them all, and the tennis court, too. She brought in tons of sand and created artificial dunes behind the real ones, and rolled them right up to the front door. On the other side, facing Shinnecock Bay, she planted red fescue and bayberry and pine. She used massive stones, already there, to make a staircase to the door on the bay side.
 ''But it's mostly buried,'' she said. ''Very minimal. Calvin style. Grass will grow in the cracks.'' 
 But, really, she said, ''I just want to be here.'' And here means Panama. In the evenings she can hear the howler monkeys and watch their young swinging from one branch to another.
 Panamanians are like Americans in that many of them do not appreciate the native trees. ''And they're afraid of bugs,'' she said one evening, standing by an old ficus, or fig tree, full of iguanas on the museum site. ''They don't stray off the path.'' 
 She hopes to change that by planting trees, shrubs and grasses that will grow so happily in this park that people will want to plant them in their yards, as little habitats for the birds and the butterflies they will see here. 
 That evening, as an ocean liner in the hazy Pacific headed north toward the entrance of the canal, she pointed out the cecropia trees growing like weeds along the water. Farmers like to cut these down, too. 
 ''Look at the silhouettes their leaves cast on the ground,'' she said, looking down and then up, at the lobed leaves, held aloft like parasols. ''These are some of my Dr. Seuss plants. I want a whole grove of them here.'' 
 She pictures poroporo, with bright yellow flowers, growing by the entrance to the museum. And near the old ficus, she will plant big natives, like ceiba, with its buttressed trunks, and quipo, whose broad branches, high in the sky, cradle the giant harpy eagle and her young.
 She wants to recruit docents from the local garden clubs to tell the stories of these trees and beloved herbs, like limoncello, or lemon grass, an Asian grass used in soups and teas. And she imagines a walkway going right into the canopy of the giant fig tree, which belongs to a genus that stars in the museum of biodiversity.
 She turned toward the skyline of Panama City, rising to the north, the freighters moving silently on the horizon to the south, and said, ''How am I ever going to go back to Mrs. So-and-So's petunias after all this?'' 

A Museum Waiting to Spread Its Wings
 WHEN Edwina von Gal went to Panama two years ago to help create a park for the $50 million museum of biodiversity designed by Frank Gehry and Bruce Mau, she imagined a park for the people.
 ''It has to be free, with no lock on the gate,'' Ms. von Gal said last month as the sun set over Fort Amador, the old military base that once guarded the edge of the Panama Canal.
 Inside the old officers' quarters, an exhibition showed off the plans for the museum, whose bent and curving pieces of metal bear Mr. Gehry's signature. 
 But unlike his Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, this museum is as colorful as a macaw. Its red, yellow and blue angled metal roof, below, looks like some phantasmagoric bird about to take flight. But the museum is having trouble getting off the ground.
 The pilings have been driven, but construction has been suspended for months. A $40 million loan promised by a previous administration has been stalled by the current government, which says the country's $1 billion debt may change the financing.
 The Gehry museum, its supporters say, would put Panama on the map, turning a debt-ridden country into a tourist destination. ''It's a unique fusion of science and art,'' said George R. Angehr, a tropical biologist from the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the curator of the museum.
 The amazing diversity of Panama's rain forests, second only to the Amazon, will be represented inside the museum by exhibitions designed by Mr. Mau. 
 It is up to Ms. von Gal to bring some of those revelations outside, even if it is as simple as a frog pond, which Mr. Gehry designed as a reflecting pool, wiggling out from the building and ending in a public plaza.
 Ms. von Gal envisions a corutu, a great canopy tree planted there for shade. Most of the plants will be native, to help people appreciate the treasures they are all too likely to chop down.
 ''But we're not trying to put in a rain forest,'' she said. ''The whole idea of the park is that it's a bridge to the real thing. Out here, people will be able to touch and smell plants most suitable to urban gardens.
 ''I want to keep the park strictly ornamental, but at the same time highly sustainable. ANNE RAVER


GRAPHIC: Photos: TREE DOCTORS -- Edwina von Gal, a garden designer, is helping to restore parts of the Panamanian landscape, including land she owns, top, and to create a biodiversity museum (rendering, left) with Frank Gehry and the tourism minister, Ruben Blades, right. (Photos by Above and below right, photographs by Kathryn Cook for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
BACK TO THE LAND -- A self-taught gardener, Edwina von Gal bought property, center right, on a Panamanian peninsula where cattle ranching has altered the landscape. She is helping to plant rolling hillsides nearby, top left, with native trees that once forested the area. Ms. von Gal has designed gardens all over the United States, attracting clients like Calvin Klein while developing an approach that embraces native plants in spare arrangements that allow the landscape to speak for itself. For the Sagaponack, N.Y., house of Jay Chiat (whom she later married), she created a swimming pool that is as serene as a reflecting pool, with an Autumn olive tree, top right, and for a client in Manhattan, a green roof with Pennsylvania fieldstone, gingkoes and bamboo, center left. For another beachfront house, she used local stones to build a wall that strikes a strong line through a field of switchgrass, above. (Photos by Above and top left, photographs by Kathryn Cook for The New York Times
left and below, Edwina von Gal
 top right, Roger Foley)(pg. F7)Map of Panama highlighting Panama City. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); BOTANY (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); BIOLOGY (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); REFORESTATION (67%); EROSION (67%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (62%); GOLF (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (55%); PROSTATE CANCER (53%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PANAMA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



278 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Sharon, Ending U.S. Visit, Says Israel Has No Plan to Hit Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, winding up a three-day visit to the United States, said Wednesday that despite mounting concern in Israel over Iran's suspected nuclear weapons program, his government was not ''planning any military attack on Iran'' and would push for ''an international effort'' to deal with the problem.
 ''I think that here it should be a coalition of democracies who believe in the danger, led by the United States, in order to put pressure upon Iran,'' Mr. Sharon said in an interview on CNN. Asked if a unilateral military strike by Israel had been ruled out, he added, ''We don't think that's what we have to do.'' 
 He added that he wanted it understood ''that Israel is not leading the struggle'' against Iran even though it was sharing information on the matter with the United States. ''Of course we exchange intelligence,'' he said. ''We exchange views, we discuss these issues, but it's not that we are planning any military attack on Iran.''
 The comments were significant because of the heightened American concern that Israel might take unilateral action, as expressed privately by senior administration officials and publicly by Vice President Dick Cheney three months ago.
 While expressing that concern, however, Mr. Cheney and others have praised Israel in retrospect for its bombing of a nuclear reactor in Iraq in 1981, an action that was condemned by the United States at the time.
 Mr. Sharon returned to Israel on Wednesday evening after what his aides said was an extremely productive visit, highlighted by a stop at President Bush's ranch at Crawford, Tex., on Monday. At that meeting, Mr. Bush reiterated the administration's all-out support for Israel's plans to withdraw forces and settlers from Gaza this coming summer.
 The two sides also discussed American opposition to Israeli expansion of settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, with Mr. Sharon saying Israel would continue to regard expansion in certain areas as its prerogative even though Israelis said afterward that such expansion plans would not be carried out in the immediate future.
 Much of the talk in Crawford focused on Mr. Sharon's concern over the pace of talks between three European countries and Iran about its suspected nuclear weapons program. The New York Times reported Wednesday that Mr. Sharon had brought new intelligence suggesting that Iran had gone further toward making a bomb than was suspected by the United States.
 On CNN, Mr. Sharon declined to repeat the claim by some Israeli officials that Iran was as little as months away from a so-called point of no return, which Israelis define as the achievement by Iran of the technical means to make a bomb, even though the actual making of such a weapon might be years off.
 ''I would say the point of no return depends upon the ability of the Iranians to solve some technical issues,'' Mr. Sharon said. ''I'd say to have a bomb, that might take years.'' But he added that given the intensity of Iranian efforts, solving the problems that stand in their way might take a ''much shorter'' time.
 The question of the imminence of the Iranian threat has been a divisive one between the United States and Europe and inside the Bush administration. Britain, France and Germany are offering economic incentives to Iran to transform its current suspension of uranium enrichment into a complete cessation of enrichment activities.
 But the talks have dragged on, and some conservatives in the Bush administration are concerned about what they say has been Iranian cheating and other activities consistent with moving ahead with a weapons program. European officials have found one limited case of Iran's violating its suspension agreement but are proceeding with the talks anyway.
 Israeli officials say they deeply fear that the talks could lead to Iran's being allowed a small nuclear program for civilian purposes that could be used as a weapons program. Bush administration officials say they do not intend for that to happen, but Israeli pressure was seen in the administration as an important reminder of the thinking of an ally.
 Mr. Sharon came to Washington on Monday evening from Texas and has spent the last two days meeting with other Bush administration officials, including Mr. Cheney, and with Congressional leaders, leaders of Jewish groups and American news media representatives. He also met with Jewish members of Congress at Blair House on Wednesday.
 Much of the Israeli press has reported that Mr. Sharon wanted support for Israel's plans to expand settlements in large populated areas in the West Bank. Mr. Bush indicated in April of last year that certain settlement blocks would end up as part of Israel in a final settlement with the Palestinians.
 Mr. Bush did not give such a green light, but he did add a sentence to his letter of last year saying a final accord between Israel and the Palestinians would have to recognize certain ''realities'' of the existence of these settlement areas. 
 On Monday, Mr. Bush said that not only were these ''realities'' but that it was ''the American view'' that they ''must be taken into account in any final status negotiations'' on Israel's boundaries. That wording was very satisfying to Mr. Sharon, an Israeli official said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel yesterday as he met with Jewish members of Congress. (Photo by Shaun Heasley/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Steven R Weisman; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Israel; Germany; France; Great Britain; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



279 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Poof! Solid Gains on Tuesday Are Now Just a Memory

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Oil shares, along with stocks that would be hurt if the economy slows, led the stock market lower yesterday as the three main market gauges fell 1 percent or more.
 The declines wiped out all the gains from Tuesday, when the stock market rebounded from early losses after Federal Reserve officials indicated that they were not worried enough about inflation to shift to half-point increases in their benchmark interest rate.
 Once again all three gauges are within easy striking distance of new lows for the year and could easily fall further if many negative surprises emerge in first-quarter earnings reports over the next few weeks. Apple Computer fell in after-hours trading despite an earnings report that beat forecasts. 
 The stock decline came even though the price of crude oil plunged 3.2 percent, to $50.22 a barrel, after the government reported a jump in petroleum inventories. The stock market has often rallied on falling oil prices while stumbling when they rise.
 Among the economically sensitive stocks that fell yesterday were Phelps Dodge, US Steel, Caterpillar and Alcoa. The Morgan Stanley index of 30 economically sensitive stocks dropped 1.9 percent.
 The two best-performing sectors yesterday were health care and consumer staples, where investors often flee when worried about slowing economic growth.
 Energy stocks were led lower by Marathon Oil, ChevronTexaco and Exxon Mobil.
 Recent economic data, including the March retail sales report released yesterday, has indicated that the economy was not as robust in the first quarter as had been forecast and is pointing to slower growth later in the year.
 Last month retail sales rose just 0.3 percent, compared with a Wall Street forecast of 0.8 percent. The February trade deficit of $61 billion, reported Tuesday, and weaker-than-expected March jobs growth of just 110,000 also raised questions about the pace of growth.
 The sluggish retail sales ''suggest that high and rising energy costs may be cutting into discretionary spending,'' said David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura, in a note to clients. 
 David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said in a note to clients that the retail sales report ''pulled down our assessment of consumer spending'' in the first quarter of the year and resulted in a reduction of its economic growth forecast for the first three months to 3.2 percent, from 3.4 percent.
 After Tuesday's trade report, the firm had already cut its first-quarter growth estimate to 3.4 percent, from 4.1 percent.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 104.04 points, or 1 percent, to 10,403.93, while the S.&P. 500-stock index dropped 13.97 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,173.79. The Nasdaq composite index fell 31.03, or 1.6 percent, to 1,974.37. The 2005 low for the Dow is 10,368.61; the S.&P., 1,163.75; the Nasdaq, 1,973.88. 
 Also leading the market lower were financial stocks, which had rallied on Tuesday after Fed policy makers gave their signal on rate increases in the minutes of their most recent meeting, on March 22. The S.&P.'s financial sector index fell 1.4 percent yesterday, after rising 1.2 percent Tuesday. The American International Group, the troubled insurer, fell $1.59, or 3 percent, to $51.61. 
 Apple Computer dropped $1.62, or 3.8 percent, to $41.04, during regular trading, ahead of the release, after hours, of its earnings. Although it beat expectations, the stock fell further in after-hours trading.
 In the bond market, Treasury prices rallied after the weaker-than-expected retails report but then wound up little changed on the day. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note slipped 3/32, to 973/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.37 percent, from 4.35 percent Tuesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 99.793
High Yield -- 4.046
Low Yield -- 3.950
Median Yield -- 4.020
Total applied for -- $27,852,674
Accepted -- $15,000,019
Noncompetitive -- $110,164
Interest set at -- 4%
The five-year notes mature April 15, 2010.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 99.970
Investment Rate -- 2.677
High Rate -- 2.640
Low Rate -- 2.600
Median Rate -- 2.620
Total applied for -- $23,130,000
Accepted -- $7,000,040
Noncompetitive -- $-0-
The 4-day cash management bills mature April 18, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); ALCOA INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); CHEVRON CORP (54%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%); CVX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



280 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: The Island of Lost Toy Fairs? Some Say It'll Be Manhattan

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
New York toy manufacturers, already stung by the sale of two Flatiron district buildings many of them call home, are bracing for the possibility that two lucrative trade fairs that bring a worldwide audience of buyers to Manhattan will move to other cities.
 Thomas P. Conley, president of the Toy Industry Association, an industry group that oversees the two annual fairs held in New York City, said yesterday that the group's board will meet next Tuesday to weigh New York's assets as a media capital and its accessibility to international buyers against the lower costs and more flexible lease arrangements of a city like Dallas, which is seen as a leading contender for one of the fairs.
 Mr. Conley was one of about 150 people, many of them toy manufacturers or makers of seasonal products, who attended a meeting of the Fifth Avenue Tenants Association yesterday at the two buildings, 200 Fifth Avenue and 1107 Broadway, which are joined by a ninth-floor bridge at West 24th Street. Together, they are known as the International Toy Center. 
 Since the buildings were bought by the Chetrit Group in January, tenants have speculated that the buildings would be converted into condos.
 Neil Friedman, president of the Fisher-Price unit of Mattel Inc., said he strongly supported keeping the trade fairs in New York City. Mr. Friedman, who advises the toy association board, said, ''Mattel and Fisher-Price will not attend any shows outside of New York.'' 
 Several employees of the New York City Economic Development Corporation also attended. Audrey Slade, a senior vice president, said her organization estimated that the February toy show at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center brings in more than $55 million to the city. The other show is in October in the International Toy Center.
 Should the fairs leave New York City, it would be a blow to efforts by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has called trade fairs and conventions critical to the tourism industry. 
 William R. Caldwell, a toy representative and a former executive at the Flexible Flyer Sled Company who works out of the Toy Center, blamed industry consolidation, in part, for the woes of New York toy manufacturers. He said that trend made it harder for small companies to compete. ''The key is moving as an industry,'' said Mr. Caldwell, adding that he was heartened by the tenants' show of solidarity at the afternoon meeting. 
 Kenneth B. Lewis, president of 4Kidz Inc., a company in the Toy Center, said the Toy Industry Association had an informal agreement with Chetrit to hold the October fair in New York this year, but plans for next year depend on the decision made at next week's meeting. The February 2006 show will be held at the Javits Center, he said, but ''if we for vote for Dallas in April, we've already got one foot out the door.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES MFG (91%); TOYS & GAMES (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: TOY INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (58%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (93%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



281 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LEVIN, WILBUR A.

 BODY:
 LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board member of many institutions, including Brooklyn Law School, Helen Keller Services for the Blind, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center, Prospect Park Alliance and the New York Organ Donor Network. He was a graduate of the Boston Latin School and Yale College ('41), and a First Lieutenant in the Army (1942-1946). In addition to his dedicated public service, Bill will long be remembered for the sense of humor and sound advice that guided his family and many friends through life, as well as for the candy and silver dollars he found in their ears. He is survived by his wife Phyllis; their four children: John Levin (and Louisa Swift), Peter (and Anna) Levin, Emme (and Jonathan) Deland, and Kate Levin (and Mark di Suvero); seven grandchildren: Dylan, Mariah, Rawle, Will, Ned, Kate and Veri; and his sister Jean Brenner. Memorial service Friday, April 15, 11 AM in the Palm House at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue. In lieu of flowers, please donate to any of the above charities. 
LEVIN--Wilbur A. All of us at Independence Community Bank mourn the death of Wilbur A. Levin, 84, a friend, business leader, and generous public citizen. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis, his children, grandchildren and the entire family for their loss. ''Bill'' Levin joined the Bank's Board of Trustees in 1965, was elected Executive Vice President in 1972 and became our 10th President in 1973, a post he held until 1985 when he became Chairman of the Board, retiring in 1995. During his tenure Mr. Levin had a pivotal role in creating a strong bank despite the deregulation of interest rates that led to economic upheaval in the banking industry. He also played an industry leadership role with the Community Bankers Association of NY State, frequently representing the Bank and the industry in Washington and Albany on regulatory issues and other challenges. Bill Levin set a high personal standard for community service and made it part of the Bank's business philosophy. In addition to many other civic activities that have enriched the life of the city and its people, Bill Levin was instrumental in the renaissance of the Downtown Brooklyn commercial district and the revival of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and Prospect Park. He continues to be the inspiration for the active involvement of Independence and its executives in the civic and economic life of the communities where we live and work. Bill Levin also brought a high moral tone to everything he did which stands as an example to everyone in business. As a friend, a business leader and an extraordinary public citizen, all of us will miss him. Charles J. Hamm, Chairman Alan H. Fishman, President & CEO and The Board of Directors of Independence Community Bank
LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Brooklyn Hospital Center is profoundly saddened by the passing of its esteemed Trustee, Wilbur A. Levin. Bill Levin has been a Trustee of The Brooklyn Hospital Center since June of 1964. Over his tenure of forty-one years, he served as Chairman of The Governance Committee (formerly Nominating Committee), the Development and Community Relations Committee, and the Joint Conference Committee. He was currently a member of the Executive Committee, and had previously served on the Operations Committee, and Financial Development Committee. In 1986, he was the first Trustee to receive the Hospital's Founder's Medal at the First Founders Ball event, and in 1999, he was recognized as the Hospital's Distinguished Trustee at the United Hospital Fund Annual Distinguished Trustee Luncheon. His integrity, thoughtfulness, and sense of humor will be greatly missed. The Board of Trustees, and the entire Brooklyn Hospital family extend deepest sympathy to the Levin family.
LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns Bill Levin, lifelong champion of all things Brooklyn. Karen Brooks Hopkins, President 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); BLINDNESS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INDEPENDENCE SAVINGS BANK (58%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



282 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stock Indicators Decline, Erasing Tuesday's Gains
Oil shares, along with stocks that would be hurt if the economy slows, led the stock market lower as the three main market gauges fell 1 percent or more. The declines wiped out all the gains from Tuesday.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 104.04 points, to 10,403.93, while the S.&P. 500-stock index fell 13.97 points, to 1,173.79. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 31.03 points, to 1,974.37. [C12.]

Panel Approves Breast Implants
Silicone breast implants should be available to women who undergo cosmetic breast surgery, a federal advisory panel voted. [A1.]

Japan Oil Drilling Could Stir Conflict
Japan announced that it would allow oil and gas drilling in waters also claimed by China, a move expected to strain diplomatic and economic ties already stretched thin. [C5.]

Stewart Wins Magazine Award
The crowd at the National Magazine Awards buzzed with surprise when Martha Stewart Weddings won an award for the first time, besting rivals like The Atlantic Monthly and the revamped New York magazine. But the ballroom burst into applause, and a few cheers, when Ms. Stewart herself emerged to accept the honor. ''We are celebrating our 10th anniversary,'' Ms. Stewart said from the stage. ''What a great anniversary this is.'' [C4.]

Freddie Mac Finds Improper Loans
Freddie Mac said that it had unknowingly bought a small number of mortgages that had ''unacceptable refinance'' terms and then sold them in securities offering to investors. [C3.]

Tax Evader Sentenced to Six Years
Al Thompson, who stopped withholding taxes from his workers' paychecks and taught others how to defeat tax laws, was sentenced to six years in prison. [C3.]

Official to Fight Insurance Takeover
The Connecticut attorney general said that he would seek to block the takeover of the Travelers Life and Annuity Company by MetLife, citing layoffs that would ensue. [C18.]

Siebel Systems Ousts Chief
The software maker Siebel Systems announced that its board had ousted its chief, J. Michael Lawrie, and named George Shaheen, a board member, to replace him. [C7.]

Advanced Micro Plans Offering
Advanced Micro Devices said that its struggling memory chip business had filed for a $600 million initial public offering. [C7.]

U.S. Prosecutor's Brother Charged
Todd J. Christie, the brother of Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, was among 20 specialist stock traders charged with civil fraud. [B4.]

Apple Beats Its Profit Forecast
Continuing a trend, Apple Computer reported a profit for the second quarter that beat its own expectations, based on continuing brisk sales of its iPod portable music player, as well as improving sales of Macintosh computers. Apple shares closed down $1.62 before the earnings were released. [C11.]

Pace of Consumer Spending Slows
The Commerce Department reported that retail sales in March rose 0.3 percent. [C3.]

Threat to Need-Based Financial Aid
Universities' traditional commitment to need-based financial aid is under siege. Robert H. Frank: Economic Scene [C2.]

Inside: Circuits
In the connected home of the future, digital entertainment will be available in nearly every room. But how will everything actually connect? [C9.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,403.93 down 104.04Nasdaq composite -- 1,974.37 down 31.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.37% up 0.02The euro -- $1.2912 up 0.0032The dollar -- 107.37 yen down 0.87Graph tracks Apple's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (83%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); APPROVALS (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); TAX LAW (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (61%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); RETAIL SALES (60%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%); ORACLE CORP (82%); APPLE INC (82%); TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO (64%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (63%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); AMD (NYSE) (63%); AMD (FRA) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



283 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Official Seeking to Halt MetLife Deal

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Connecticut attorney general said yesterday that he would seek to block the planned takeover of the Travelers Life and Annuity Company by MetLife, citing layoffs that the deal would cause.
 The official, Richard Blumenthal, said he would ask the Connecticut state insurance regulator to deny approval for the takeover in light of MetLife's plan to eliminate hundreds of Hartford-based jobs at Travelers -- by some estimates, about 40 percent of the company's work force. 
 Although Mr. Blumenthal does not have the authority to stop the acquisition, he is arguing that it is not in the public interest. 
 MetLife, based in New York, said in January that it expected the $11.5 billion purchase of Travelers Life and Annuity, also based in New York, from Citigroup to close around July 1, after receipt of the required approvals from insurance regulators, including those in Connecticut and New York. 
 Citigroup bought the Travelers Group, a big insurer, in 1998. Since then, as hoped-for profits failed to materialize, Citigroup has been shedding or spinning off the various insurance operations of Travelers to concentrate on its core banking and finance operations.
 In a statement yesterday, Mr. Blumenthal said that ''MetLife's layoffs could devastate the economy of Hartford and the region by eliminating hundreds of much-needed, high-paying, skilled jobs.'' 
 A spokesman for MetLife, John Calagna, said that ''we do feel confident that the transaction meets the requirements and that it will be approved by the regulators.''
 A Travelers spokeswoman, Leah Johnson, said, ''We believe that MetLife will be able to resolve this matter.'' She declined to elaborate.
 Mr. Blumenthal is conducting a broad investigation into the insurance industry, amid a larger inquiry being carried out by the New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer.
 The Connecticut Insurance Department is expected within a couple of weeks to set a date for hearings on the proposed MetLife takeover. Such hearings are often routine. 
 Still, Mr. Blumenthal's opposition is the first time that he has opposed an insurance-related deal in the state. Connecticut is home to many insurers.
 In deciding whether to approve a merger, state insurance regulators seek evidence that the deal is financially sound, protects policyholders, does not hinder competition and is in the ''public interest.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the agency, Kate Kiernan-Pagani, said yesterday that to her knowledge, the agency had never denied a merger application because of concern over job losses. 
 MetLife said on Monday that it would eliminate 600 jobs at Travelers Life and Annuity as a result of the takeover, but Mr. Blumenthal's office thinks that the total will be more than 700, a spokeswoman said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MERGERS (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (95%); TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO (93%); TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (95%); TRV (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



284 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: A New Call to Arms: Military Health Care

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
The battle over the Pentagon's billions has traditionally been fought between two forces -- those who want more new planes and ships and tanks, and those who want more money for troops. Now there is a third: military health care.
 The cost of the main military health care plan, Tricare, has doubled since 2001 and will soon reach $50 billion a year, more than a tenth of the Pentagon's budget. At least 75 percent of the benefits will go to veterans and retirees.
 Over the next decade, a new plan for military retirees, Tricare for Life, will cost at least $100 billion, according to confidential budget documents, rivaling the costs of the biggest weapons systems the Pentagon is building. The surge in military spending since the 9/11 attacks is slowing, and Pentagon officials say they may be forced to choose between the costs of new weapons and old soldiers. The Pentagon, said William Winkenwerder Jr., the assistant secretary of defense for health affairs, faces ''a growing, serious, long-term problem." 
 Pentagon supporters say the military should not be pressed to choose. ''I don't want to see money taken out of health care in order to buy weapons,'' Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said in an interview. ''I want to maintain that health care. We'll just have to ask the president to allocate more money.''
 Like corporate America, squeezed by the growing costs of health plans and pensions for graying workers, and like the rest of the American government, cringing at the coming Social Security and Medicare bills for aging baby boomers, the military is recoiling at the costs of keeping promises to its people. 
 Tricare for Life is one of a long list of assurances, like prescription drug benefits for the elderly, that Washington is making to American citizens at a rate of more than $1 trillion a month. The government's unpaid-for promises grew by more than $13 trillion last year, a sum larger than the nation's 2004 economic output, and they now surpass $43 trillion, said David A. Walker, comptroller general of the United States.
 Last year ''was arguably the worst year in our fiscal history,'' said Mr. Walker, who runs the Government Accountability Office, the budget watchdog of Congress. ''It seems clear that the nation's current fiscal path is unsustainable.''
 Washington, instead of making painful choices, is paving that path with borrowed money and hundreds of billions of dollars of deficit spending. 
 Tricare, the overall military health plan, has nearly nine million beneficiaries. Its only cost to participants is an annual fee, no higher than $460 a year, covering all veterans and their families. Tricare for Life, which supplements Medicare, is free. It covers military retirees over 65, their spouses and, in some cases, their former spouses, for as long as any of them live. 
 The number of military retirees is rising very slowly, toward 1.8 million by decade's end, because many veterans of World War II and Korea are dying. But Tricare for Life payments by the Pentagon will more than double, to $13 billion a year in 2015, from $6 billion last year. The money comes directly out of the Pentagon's budget for active-duty soldiers.
 Tricare for Life is the biggest part of a package of benefits for military retirees and their families that has been passed by Congress since 2000 and that will cost $150 billion from now until 2015. 
 ''It's costing mightily and it's in competition with some of the weapons systems,'' Senator Warner said.
 But he said that having a first-class health plan for retirees was a crucial selling point for recruiting and retaining soldiers. ''There's no sense in buying modern weapons,'' he said, ''unless you've got healthy, intelligent people who can operate them and are willing to stay there.''
 The cost of military health care is now bigger than the Army's budget for buying new weapons, the Navy's budget for new ships and submarines, or the Air Force's budget for new planes. ''The benefits we've added over the last six years now exceed the services' entire aircraft and ammunition procurement budgets,'' said Representative Duncan L. Hunter of California, the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
 Pentagon officials are warning Congress that something has to give. 
 The cost of military health care is ''the single most daunting thing that we deal with out there today,'' said Gen. John P. Jumper, the Air Force chief of staff. ''The price of Tricare, what it's costing us to sustain that, is going up and up.'' 
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is ''very concerned with the growth'' of new benefits and entitlements ''that accrue principally to those who've left service, especially the retired community,'' said David S.C. Chu, the under secretary of defense for personnel. ''The nation adopted them for good reason, but they are causing a significant cost issue for future defense budgets.''
 The House Armed Services Committee has tried to take Tricare for Life out of the Pentagon's budget and lay it at the Treasury's doorstep. The Treasury refused. 
 Tricare for Life was enacted after veterans' groups fought for a decade to fulfill a pledge made to generations of raw recruits. As health care costs soared in the 1990's, military retirees over 65 rebelled when forced out of the military health care plan and into less-generous Medicare coverage. They reminded Congress that military recruiters had told enlistees for decades that their medical needs would be covered for life. 
 The issue became known simply as ''the promise.'' The veterans' groups waged an intense, emotional and ultimately successful campaign.
 Tricare for Life is ''a national obligation,'' said Steve Strobridge, director of government relations for the Military Officers Association of America, which represents 370,000 dues-paying members. ''If the military is going to entice people to serve for decades and go to war, that carries with it certain obligations that must be fulfilled.''
 The retirees persuaded almost every member of Congress to support Tricare for Life, a permanent entitlement. Many lawmakers believe that criticizing it would be political suicide, said Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a Republican from Illinois and a Navy reserve officer, one of the few members of Congress who has publicly questioned the price of the promise. He says that insuring the safety of soldiers on the front line should be a higher priority.
 ''There's a great cost in even talking about this -- a political cost,'' he said.
 Winslow T. Wheeler, who spent 31 years as a military spending analyst for Republican and Democratic senators and received an award from the Military Officers Association of America for helping to create Tricare for Life, now questions its cost.
 ''There's a horrible dilemma here,'' Mr. Wheeler said in an interview. ''As the top line for the Pentagon slows down, the defense health program will start to consume the rest of the defense budget. And every time the Pentagon tries to slow its growth or cut its cost or talk about co-payments, M.O.A.A. goes bananas, and Congress slaps the Pentagon's hands away and increases the benefits. What we have is a retired-military and veterans' community conspiring with Congress to morph the defense budget.'' 
 Mr. Strobridge, the lobbyist for the veterans' group, said that forcing new weapons and old soldiers to compete for cash was a false choice. ''The people-versus-weapons debate is a red herring,'' he said. ''Both are essential to defend the country. And wartime is the last time to scrimp on either.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Paying for Lifelong Care''Of the health care benefits for military retirees and their families enacted by Congress in 2000, Tricare for Life, a supplement to Medicare, is by far the most expensive.Graphs track People receiving military health benefits and Projected costs of benefits for military retirees and their families for 2005 projected through 2015.(Sources by Congress
 Department of Defense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BENEFITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); AGING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); AGING TRENDS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); OLDER WORKERS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%) Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States Armament and Defense; Military Personnel; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (71%) Tim Weiner; John W (Sen) Warner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



285 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: MILITARY RELATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Leader To Propose Strategic Ties With the U.S.

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, April 13 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai said Wednesday that he would send a formal request to President Bush seeking a long-term strategic relationship with the United States, one that could include economic assistance as well as security guarantees and military cooperation.
 At a news conference here with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Mr. Karzai said it was only natural to want such ties with the nation that had restored Afghan sovereignty and was at the forefront of helping rebuild its security and economy. 
 In a country with a storied history of opposition to foreign forces on its soil, Mr. Karzai opened the door to possibly allowing rights to Afghan airspace and moving troops through the country. The talks could even lead to an undetermined number of American soldiers being based here. 
 ''The conclusion we have drawn is that the Afghan people want a long-term relationship with the United States,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''They want this relationship to be a wholesome one, including a sustained economic relationship, a political relationship and, most important of all, a strategic security relationship that would enable Afghanistan to defend itself, to continue to prosper, to stop the possibility of interferences.'' 
 Forging such ties was part of Mr. Karzai's election platform last fall, but Bush administration officials working on the issue had deliberately not focused public discussion on them.
 Officials in Washington are keenly aware of the Afghan people's historic animosity toward any foreign military presence, whether British troops of Rudyard Kipling's era or Soviet soldiers who invaded under Leonid Brezhnev. Just as important, Bush administration officials do not wish the United States to be seen as an expansionist power eager to set up large, permanent military bases across the Muslim world. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld's preferences for how the American military should reshape its global footprint mean the United States is unlikely to seek large permanent bases in Afghanistan. 
 The goal endorsed by all of the United States armed services is to create forces that can deploy with more speed and agility -- and with greater firepower -- but that do not require the sustained and costly overseas base structure that can be a target both of terrorist attack and political opposition in the host nation.
 A lasting military-to-military relationship with Afghanistan would probably involve airspace guarantees for American military flights, as well as promises of access to smaller, forward operating bases here. Those bases could be used as necessary to continue the hunt for the Taliban and Al Qaeda here, even after Afghanistan takes the lead in internal security.
 Such a relationship would be in keeping with steps the Pentagon has taken in recent months to reshape its global posture, including decisions to bring home large numbers of troops from Germany while seeking permission to operate in places where it had never based troops.
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks, for example, negotiations have earned the United States military access and overflight rights to the former Communist states of Eastern Europe, and former Soviet republics in the Caucasus and Central Asia, as well as the right to deploy small, carefully shaped forces in places like the Horn of Africa.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said the issue would be decided only at the level of Presidents Bush and Mr. Karzai, and that negotiations on the American side would be shouldered by the State Department. He steadfastly declined to predict whether permanent bases would be part of any agreement.
 But he sketched broadly the United States' interests in a long-term security relationship with Afghanistan. He made clear his belief that serious and continued American efforts were needed in Afghanistan to sustain the victory in the war effort that toppled the Taliban and routed Al Qaeda. Mr. Rumsfeld said the United States could also help equip and train Afghan security forces. ''We think more in terms of what we are doing than the question of military bases and that sort of thing,'' he said.
 A new strategic relationship would not necessarily require a treaty -- a concept the Bush administration has routinely rejected as an unwieldy anomaly -- but could be codified in an exchange of letters or a memorandum of understanding.
 The United States now has about 20,000 troops in Afghanistan, a number inflated because of a turnover of forces now under way that has resulted in an overlap of troops. Once the transition is over, the American military presence will drop to about 16,700. Another 1,600 soldiers from other nations are members of the American-led forces here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); TERRORISM (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Thom Shanker; Hamid (Pres) Karzai; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (72%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



286 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Freddie Mac Purchased And Sold Faulty Loans

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Freddie Mac, the nation's second-largest buyer of mortgages, said yesterday that it had unknowingly bought a small number of mortgages that had ''unacceptable refinance'' terms and then sold them in securities offerings to investors.
 The company said an investigation had discovered that a California broker sold borrowers mortgages with above-market interest rates and then provided financial incentives to encourage quick refinancing. The broker, who was not identified, profited from the fees from the quick turnover. 
 Freddie Mac said that the unacceptable loans were found in 48 pools of mortgage-backed securities that it detected as having higher-than-normal prepayment rates. In turn, the company asked National City Mortgage -- a division of the National City Corporation, a bank based in Cleveland -- which had sold it the unacceptable loans, to conduct an investigation. That inquiry found the broker whose practices are now in question. 
 ''The borrowers were not victims here,'' said Sharon McHale, a spokeswoman for Freddie Mac. ''They were cognizant of what was going on and in some cases, it was the same borrowers refinancing. They were doing this multiple times. That's how it worked.''
 It is unclear if the matter will be turned over to local, state or federal law enforcement authorities. Freddie Mac has alerted the Department of Housing and Urban Development, as well as the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, its regulator.
 ''We are aware of this issue and it is under investigation,'' said Corinne Russell, an spokeswoman for the regulator. A HUD spokesman confirmed that the agency was aware of the situation but said it was leaving the matter in the hands of the company and its regulator.
 National City did not return calls for comment late yesterday.
 While the 48 pools of securitized mortgages, worth about $178 million, are a tiny fraction of the 115,000 pools that make up Freddie Mac's $870 billion portfolio, the news comes as the company and Fannie Mae, its larger corporate cousin, are under intense scrutiny from federal regulators.
 In testimony last week before Congress, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, again called for tighter regulation of the two government-sponsored enterprises in the wake of accounting scandals exposed last year at Fannie Mae and in 2003 at Freddie Mac.
 Yesterday's disclosure also came just days after debate ended over a rule proposed in February by the regulator that would require the timely reporting of mortgage fraud. The regulator has said the policy was necessary after a federal court imposed a $7.5 million fine on Fannie Mae for reselling loans that it knew were fraudulent to the First Beneficial Company, a North Carolina lender, without notifying the regulator. First Beneficial, in turn, resold some of the questionable loans to Ginnie Mae, another government-sponsored enterprise, which lost about $30 million as a result of the fraud.
 ''Prearranged financing arrangements are not permitted on mortgages sold to Freddie Mac,'' Dave Stevens, Freddie Mac's senior vice president of mortgage sourcing, said in a statement. ''Working with our sellers and servicers, Freddie Mac will continue to take all appropriate steps to stop these practices.'' 
 Consumer advocates say that mortgage fraud in general is on the rise. ''There's a market dynamic that is making it happen,'' said Mark Pearce, president of the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit policy organization.
 ''It used to be based on the interest rate and getting your money back,'' he said. ''Lenders now care about the fees they get up front because they don't hold onto the loans because of the growth of the secondary market,'' and because brokers are seeking new opportunities as the number of home refinancings decline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); SCANDALS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); CITIES (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (86%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (83%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (83%); NATIONAL CITY MORTGAGE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%) Freddie Mac ; National City Corp

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005



287 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Ford Stuck in Reverse As Buyers Look Beyond Detroit

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 14 

 BODY:
In just the last few weeks, the grand plans that were supposed to carry General Motors and Ford Motor into their second centuries have crumbled. 
 Sales at G.M. have fallen, profits have tumbled to losses. Last week, Ford also warned of a drop in earnings. Thursday, in yet another blow, its union refused to give much ground on G.M.'s health care coverage. If that were not enough, G.M.'s stock hit a 12-year low. [Page C1.]
 The Big Two automobile giants offer plenty of explanations, from soaring health care costs to rising gas prices and creeping interest rates. But consumers and industry specialists say G.M. and Ford have swerved off course for a more basic reason: not enough people like their cars. 
 ''I still hate to buy a foreign car,'' said T.J. Penn, a 44-year-old painting and drywall contractor walking through a Toyota lot this week in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''But the quality and reliability makes it hard not to.''
 Despite free loans and rebates worth several thousand dollars, G.M. and Ford are losing sales to perennial competitors like Toyota and newer rivals like Hyundai, which are more often getting the carmaking formula right: consistent quality, reliability and that intangible appeal. 
 G.M. and Ford are having such a hard time bringing in the real American consumer that about a third of their sales go to their own employees, their family and friends, or to rental companies and corporate fleets, at razor-thin margins. 
 And now they are also losing their safety net. Detroit turned the S.U.V. and pickup truck into popular consumer products that propelled profits for much of the last decade. But with Asian makers now entrenched in the S.U.V. market -- and setting their sights on pickups -- G.M. and Ford have lost any margin for error.
 In their storied pasts, both G.M. and Ford did best when they offered something others did not. Henry Ford created a car for the masses, the Model-T, which was far more efficiently made and cheaply priced than rival cars. G.M., the first car conglomerate, struggled to compete with Ford until an executive emerged in the 1920's, Alfred P. Sloan Jr., who believed the company's amalgam of brands -- including Chevy, Buick and Cadillac -- could be organized to offer what Ford did not, namely choice and plenty of it.
 Today, both companies occupy the dreaded middle, offering neither compelling value nor compelling beauty, with exceptions like the popular new version of the Ford Mustang or G.M.'s revived Cadillac line. Auto companies can make up for a lot by making enticing automobiles, and right now analysts see something of a storm approaching that needs a survival plan. 
 ''If I was in their styling studio I'd be working 24 hours a day on models that excited me when I walked through the door,'' said Gerald Meyers, a University of Michigan professor and the former chief executive of American Motors, which was taken over by Chrysler. ''There has to be excitement in that instant when the customer walks through the door. That decision to look and buy happens very quickly.''
 Soaring health care costs are a crushing burden because G.M. and Ford cover 1.7 million Americans, or more than half a percent of the total population. Raw material prices, gas prices and interest rates are all rising. The two companies now command roughly 45 percent of the domestic market, their core profit center, down from 58.4 percent a decade ago, according to Ward's Automotive, even though they have acquired European brands like Saab, Volvo and Jaguar in the interim.
 Mr. Penn's mother worked ''at Ford's,'' he said, using the local vernacular for the family-controlled company. The idea of buying import cars ''was out of the question, but then I had a Subaru Forester and it was a great car.'' Now he owns a Toyota Sienna minivan and said he was even considering eventually trading in his fifth Ford F-150 pickup for a Toyota Tundra.
 ''A lot of it is the engineering and that they stay on the road a long time,'' he added. ''It seems like the Japanese technology in cars are better value.''
 Many analysts see a prescription for success in Chrysler, a division of the German automaker DaimlerChrysler. The company's recent recovery has been driven by hot sales of a few key products, particularly the one that stands out on the road, the Bentley-like Chrysler 300 sedan.
 ''American cars were like the Marlboro man for years -- there was an ideal of freedom, space, luxury and abundance,'' said G. Clotaire Rapaille, a consultant on what makes consumers buy cars. 
 ''The brands are being watered down so they are generic,'' he added. ''And people have always said that if they want to buy generic cars, the Japanese or the Koreans build them better.'' 
 What is worse is that Asian cars are not even generic anymore. One of the most profitable automakers, Nissan, is now widely considered one of the boldest designers. G.M. and Ford have been vocal in recent years about making what G.M.'s vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, calls ''gotta-have'' cars. But entrenched bureaucracies and cost-cutting pressure do not easily produce elegance. 
 Cars can fail to measure up on a variety of sensory fronts. Ford's new Five Hundred sedan has been criticized for borrowing an engine from the aged Taurus that lacks pep; a review in Car and Driver magazine lamented that the car ''merely oozes forward.'' The Detroit Free Press criticized G.M.'s Pontiac G6, a sedan pitched as sporty and exciting, for a ''rather numb'' feel behind the wheel.
 Pressure is coming from BMW and Mercedes, selling cars starting around $30,000, and Asian makers offering vehicles under $20,000. 
 ''You want to put money into something you'll get return back from,'' said Nathaniel Nix, a 37-year-old pastor at a church in the Detroit suburb of Ypsilanti, in an interview this week at a Toyota dealership. Mr. Nix, who was a car salesman for both Ford and Toyota more than a decade ago, said Toyota's higher resale value and more consistent quality made its cars a good investment.
 And if Japanese automakers ''were the boring ones'' in the past, he said now ''they're doing an awesome job in the styling realm.''
 Mr. Nix is in the market for a car because his 16-year-old son, also named Nathaniel, crashed the family's Corolla. The younger Mr. Nix is pressing his father for an xB, an S.U.V. from Toyota's new youth brand, Scion, that looks like a microwave oven on wheels. 
 Does the younger Mr. Nix like American cars?
 ''The '67 GT Cobra, the Boss 302 and the old Charger,'' he said, reeling off vintage Detroit muscle cars. 
 ''What about the new ones?'' his father asked.
 ''Um,'' his son considered for a moment. ''Not really.''
 As G.M. and Ford lose their grip on American buyers, Michigan's unemployment rate is now the highest in the nation. 
 ''You can't keep losing the market share like G.M.'s losing, you know,'' said Kenneth Shelton, a 49-year-old machine operator at G.M.'s Willow Run transmission plant in Ypsilanti. The factory, which once produced World War II bombers and covers the space of more than 83 football fields in this Detroit suburb, is down to 3,800 workers today, from about 12,000 two decades ago.
 Mr. Shelton and his wife, Joy, met 20 years ago at the time clock. He was punching in, she was punching out. Back then, Willow Run was ''like a city that never stopped,'' said Joy, 48, a quality inspector. ''It was just bustling, always bustling, everybody just worked, worked, worked, worked, worked. It was nothing like it is now.''
 Now, her husband said: ''They hit us every day in the papers. We read it. We read it. We pay attention.
 ''These kind of jobs, where could you find something like this anymore?''
 A rising sense of frustration is also evident in executive suites. G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, who has declined interview requests in recent weeks, shook up his senior North American management last month and his company is increasingly on edge. Last week, G.M. pulled its advertising from The Los Angeles Times, the largest newspaper in one of G.M.'s weakest markets, after a columnist said Mr. Wagoner should be fired.
 Ford's own troubles came into view last week as the company sharply scaled back its earnings projections and abandoned the cornerstone profit goal of its three-year-old revival plan; its stock fell to a nearly two-year low. 
 If most on Wall Street do not think bankruptcy is on the horizon because the companies have adequate cash reserves, analysts also see no clear turnaround path. Rising gas prices are weighing on sales of Detroit staples like Ford Explorers and G.M.'s Chevrolet Suburbans. In its profit warning last week, Ford cited as a key factor ''the prospect of higher and sustained gasoline prices.'' Some analysts worry that Toyota and Honda are far better positioned to weather gas prices because they have stronger passenger car offerings and are far ahead in developing fuel-efficient hybrid electric cars. 
 Rising interest rates shave profits from car loans. Overseas operations drain more than reward. And both companies are flirting with junk bond ratings, which would drive up borrowing costs by billions of dollars.
 ''Right now, we don't know if we are going to be here another five years,'' said William Murphy, a 70-year-old lathe operator at G.M.'s Willow Run plant. G.M. recently made an investment in the plant, so it is not likely to disappear. 
 If it did, Mr. Murphy said his nearly four decades of seniority would come in handy. ''I'll be the one to shut the lights down.''
 Mr. Murphy, a large man in overalls hailed as Murph by co-workers, spoke while eating an Italian ice before his shift, sitting in his sister's car. A Hyundai.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nathaniel Nix, right, and his son, also named Nathaniel, who is urging his father to buy a Toyota. (Photo by Tony Ding for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Losing Ground''The domestic market shares of General Motors and Ford have declined in recent years, losing ground to foreign automakers, particularly the Japanese. G.M.'s and Ford's earnings have also suffered, partly because 20 percent of their auto sales are to rental car fleets, which are less profitable than sales to consumers.Graph shows the DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE, IN PERCENT, for G.M., FORD, TOYOTA, HONDA, and NISSAN.Graph shows FORD and G.M. NET INCOME(Sources by Ward's AutoInfoBank
company reports
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Chart:G.M.'s stock price has fallento its lowest level since 1993.Graph shows G.M.'S WEEKLY STOCK PRICE since 1992.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (53%) Automobiles; Company and Organization Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Industry Profiles; Consumer Behavior; Sales; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp; Hyundai Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



288 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; ADVENTURER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Following a Canoe Trail, Far From the Beaten Track

BYLINE: By TANIA RALLI

 BODY:
''You just follow the pollen,'' Andrew Buchanan said, sharing an insider secret of canoeing in swamps, where a wrong turn can lead into a backwater maze. In spring, sheets of yellow decorate the smooth waters of the Roanoke River as it sprawls over its delta in North Carolina. Ironwood trees drop the pollen; in another season, other plant detritus would work equally well. Just paddle in the direction where the drifting bits are headed, and you'll get back to the main channel. 
 Or you could rely on a global positioning system navigation device: this swamp is well enough mapped to be navigated by coordinates. And it has signs and markers pointing the way along 200 miles of canoe paths, recommended routes laid out by a nonprofit organization called the Roanoke River Partners. Not that Mr. Buchanan and his friends -- four men and four women, traveling in four canoes last month -- were in danger of being swallowed up by the wilderness. Franklin Goldsmith, a doctoral student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and one of the organizers of the trip, grew up in North Carolina and has paddled around Southeastern swamps with his friends every spring for 10 years. Misty Franklin, another organizer, knows her way around a swampland, too. She is North Carolina's state botanist. 
 The group had their sleeping bags with them and were exploring as many fingers of the Roanoke, which spreads at this point into a five-mile-wide wetland, as they could in three days, sleeping at night on dry platforms built by the River Partners. 
 Anybody can travel by canoe along this part of the Roanoke, and would probably have a good time doing it, at least as long as the mosquitoes haven't emerged. (The best months to go are February to June.) Paddles cut effortlessly through the smooth water. Cypress and gum trees loom overhead, the bottoms of their trunks submerged. Colors are vibrant: red helicopters spiral down from maple trees in early spring; later, tearthumb vines, covered in tiny teeth, snake through the trees, and azaleas bloom pink and white. On a clear evening, the moon glows through the trees. The remoteness gives new meaning to the word quiet.
 ''There is an incredible beauty to the swamp,'' said Mr. Goldsmith, who is also an avid hiker and co-wrote a hiking trail guide for western North Carolina, ''The Best Hikes of Pisgah National Forest,'' published in 2000. ''Sometimes it's more soothing to be on the water than trotting up a hillside.'' 
 One morning, the walkie-talkies -- used to keep the group together -- crackled, and Mr. Buchanan's voice said quietly, ''Blue heron, on the left, in the trees.'' Everyone squinted to see through the sunshine. Sure enough, crowning a tangle of branches stood a heron, perhaps three feet tall, looking as sleek and proud as a Brancusi sculpture. A branch quivered as the heron took off, flapping its massive wings and lumbering up to swoop once over the river and glide away into the forest without stirring another branch.
 Herons are one of more than 200 species of birds in this swamp, including the bright yellow warbler, seen only in wooded swamps; on this trip, one was spotted hopping along a branch. Turtles sunned on logs, and otters cut through the water. Ospreys snatched up fish with their talons and soared away. The canoeists passed a fisherman, standing in a small boat, who gave a curt nod. A cigarette hung from his bottom lip, its burning tip the color of his orange waders. Without looking up again, he continued to bait his hooks with chicken livers to entice catfish.
 These friends' trips are modeled after swamp canoeing expeditions Mr. Goldsmith's father and friends have been making for the past 25 years, partly to take in the primeval quality of the swamp but mostly for male bonding. (The older men still favor canoes over kayaks, as they have from the beginning, not only because they are steadier, but also because they have more room for whiskey.)
 Two centuries ago, swamps covered 30 million acres of the southeastern United States; today, after draining and clearing, less than half remains. Along this part of the Roanoke, where tobacco and cotton farming have been declining, the Roanoke River Partners works to persuade residents that wilderness tourism may be a means of economic revitalization. It hasn't always been an easy sell. 
 Designating paths for recreational canoeing is still a relatively new idea even for paddlers, but it helps with staying on track and finding the most rewarding routes. ''We have certain routes we'll recommend based on experience level,'' said Cindy Tripp, who directs River Partners. Surprisingly, a creek called Devil's Gut is one of the easier ones to navigate.
 AT night, Mr. Goldsmith and his friends followed the River Partners markers to pull up to small docks, barely visible from the water, and walked up to the camping platforms, where they set up their tents in the corners and placed chairs in a circle in the middle. 
 ''You can bring a moveable feast,'' Mr. Goldsmith said as he cooked on a small two-burner stove, boiling water for jasmine rice and pulling out vegetables from the cooler for a green curry.
 Amber Hudson, who lives in Raleigh, N.C., watched. ''I never knew you could eat so well until I went camping with Franklin,'' she said. 
 The swamp's stillness persisted into nightfall, and then the owls came out. Forget the soft forlorn ''whoo-whoo'' most owls make. These were barred owls, and when they called out in their raspy voices, it sounded as if a group of monkeys were swinging from branch to branch, letting out wild calls.
 After the swamp explorers pulled their canoes out of the river at the end of the trip, they made their way to an appropriate reward, a meal at the Cypress Grill, an old riverside herring shack where Leslie and Sally Gardner serve herring deep-fried with its roe. The herring are a regional specialty from January until the end of April, while they run up the river to spawn, and the restaurant, open only during the season, has caught the attention of national food writers. Because conservation laws keep Mr. Gardner from putting nets into the river as his family used to do, he now drives a 100-mile round trip every day to the river's end at the Albemarle Sound to buy herring there. 
 The restaurant was filled to capacity with locals, many of them of retirement age, who ordered without looking at menus and ate with obvious relish. The herring, served three to a plate with their tails on, were mild in flavor and spiced up with condiments of the diner's choosing. Dredged in cornmeal and fried, the fish were so crisp and crusty that it seemed impossible to cut them with a fork without coming away with a mouthful of backbone. 
 A waitress watched a novice struggle and offered a simple solution -- and a familiar one -- as it turned out, after three days in the swamp. 
 ''Honey,'' she said as she poured out sweet tea, ''just eat it with your fingers.'' 

PADDLE ON
Finding the Way In a Swamp
 THERE are several canoe launching points on the Roanoke River, off United States Route 64, in Plymouth and Jamesville, N.C., about 50 miles east of Greenville, or along Route 17 in Windsor.
 Canoe rentals are available from Three Rivers Adventures (210 West Water Street, Plymouth; 252-217-9701); Roberson's Marina (25354 Highway 64, Jamesville; 252-792-3583); or Don Gray (910-624-0347), who has no storefront but will deliver a canoe to the river. All three require reservations.
 Roanoke River Partners (252-792-3790; www.roanokeriverpartners.com) rents camping platforms in the swamp for $20 to $60 a night, depending on the size of the group. White markers point the way to the platforms, but a global positioning system navigation device is also handy.
 The Cypress Grill (1520 Stewart Street, Jamesville; 252-792-4175), on the Roanoke River off Route 64, is open from January until April 30. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: NATURE TOUR -- The primeval quality of the Roanoke River in North Carolina unfolds for Amber Hudson, rear, and Misty Franklin. (Photo by Tania Ralli)Map of North Carolina focusing on Roanoke River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (90%); HIKING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); BOTANY (76%); WETLANDS (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (70%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (54%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Canoes and Canoeing

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: Tania Ralli

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina; Roanoke River

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



289 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Low-Profile Texas Oilman Draws Spotlight for Iraqi Deals

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Many people here were wondering who David Bay Chalmers Jr. was after the police arrested him on Thursday at his home in the exclusive River Oaks area on charges of directing kickbacks to the Iraqi government in exchange for access to lucrative oil contracts.
 Since shifting the base of his oil-trading company, Bayoil U.S.A. Inc., here from Connecticut in the early 1990's, Mr. Chalmers, 51, has maintained a low profile in a city and in a business renowned for their swagger. Bayoil quietly developed a reputation for its expertise in acquiring oil from Iraq despite the difficulties of operating in that country. 
 Mr. Chalmers's success in Iraq's oil industry, though unusual for an American businessman, fits in with long history of doing business in the country. Mr. Chalmers was a broker for Iraqi oil as far back as the late 1980's, when Iraq was emerging from its eight-year war with Iran, and at one time promoted a $3 billion petrochemical complex in Iraq, which was never built.
 Oil traders took note of Mr. Chalmers's connections with Baghdad in 1996 when Bayoil, as well as a company controlled by another Houston energy investor, Oscar S. Wyatt Jr., chartered some of the first ships allowed to transport Iraqi oil under the United Nations oil-for-food program relief program. Otherwise, Bayoil, owned entirely by Mr. Chalmers, remained virtually unknown.
 ''It's of little surprise that we're learning about these guys now,'' said Prof. Michael J. Economides, an authority on the energy industry at the University of Houston. ''Oil trading is a deliberately murky world. It's no wonder the traders are based in places like the Netherlands Antilles, the Cayman Islands, the Bahamas and, yes, here in Houston.''
 Bayoil's modest offices in downtown Houston are on the second floor of the historic Rice Hotel building, a short stroll from the federal courthouse where Magistrate Judge Calvin Botley set bail at $500,000 for Mr. Chalmers. 
 Frank Spagnoletti, Mr. Chalmers's lawyer in Houston, said Mr. Chalmers would plead not guilty. Referring to the Justice Department, Mr. Spagnoletti said, ''Their case appears to be vague.''
 But David N. Kelley, the United States attorney in Manhattan, where the indictment was unsealed, said, ''I don't think there's much of Bayoil left after this indictment.'' 
 In addition to the charges against Mr. Chalmers and Bayoil U.S.A., the indictment asserts that he also owns an offshore company, Bayoil Supply and Trading Ltd. in the Bahamas, that was used in the transactions under scrutiny.
 Mr. Chalmers's family has a long history in the international oil business. His great-uncle Charles Ulrick Bay founded Bay Petroleum in the 1930's before becoming a high-ranking intelligence official in the Office of Strategic Services and later a ambassador to Norway, Forbes reported in 1995. Mr. Chalmers's father, David Bay Chalmers Sr., became a well-known oil trader through the creation of another company, Coral Petroleum, which ultimately filed for bankruptcy protection in 1983.
 More recently, Mr. Chalmers and Mr. Wyatt, whose own business experience in Iraq stretches back to the 1970's, teamed up in January to buy a small oil refinery in Lake Charles, La., for $9 million that produces jet fuel and asphalt. Refining experts said the facility had little value, perhaps other than to show access to refining capacity on paper in order to acquire oil cargoes from Nigeria, which sometimes requires such proof.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Bay Chalmers Jr. after his arrest yesterday in Houston. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAGISTRATES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (73%); BAIL (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LAWYERS (62%); JUDGES (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Bribery; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) Bayoil USA; United Nations

PERSON: David Bay Jr Chalmers; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BAHAMAS (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%) Iraq; Houston (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



290 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: China Pushing And Scripting Japan Protests

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 14 

 BODY:
Enraged about Japan's tendentious textbooks and territorial disputes in the East China Sea, Sun Wei, a college junior, joined thousands of Chinese in a rare legal protest march on the streets of Beijing last weekend.
 Yet the police herded protesters into tight groups, let them take turns throwing rocks, then told them they had ''vented their anger'' long enough and bused them back to campus.
 ''It was partly a real protest and partly a political show,'' Mr. Sun said in an interview this week. ''I felt a little like a puppet.'' 
 China has tapped a deep strain of nationalism among its people, gambling, analysts say, that it can propel itself to a leadership role in Asia while cloaking its move for power in the guise of wounded pride and popular will.
 But the government also seems to have taken steps to control -- some say manipulate -- a nascent protest movement to prevent a grass-roots challenge to the governing Communist Party.
 In the last few weeks, relations between Asia's two leading powers have reached their most serious crisis since diplomatic ties were re-established in 1972. China has confronted Japan over newly revised history textbooks that gloss over wartime abuses. It stepped up its claim to disputed islands and undersea gas reserves between the countries.
 China took Japan and the United States to task for declaring that they would jointly defend Taiwan in case of an attack from the mainland.
 After weeks of hints, Chinese leaders said outright on Wednesday that Japan did not have the moral qualifications to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. That effectively thwarted Japan's ambition to attain that status as part of an overhaul plan this year.
 The steps have proved immensely popular at home. But stirring up patriotic sentiment to unite the country carries big risks, because party officials fear nothing more than unscripted political activity. Furthermore, they depend heavily on the good will of the major foreign powers to keep investment flowing and the economy humming.
 ''The basic policy of our government has been to be conciliatory to Japan and the rest of the world,'' said Pan Wei, a political theorist at Beijing University. ''But that policy has become less viable today, when people are demanding a harder line.''
 The government's new approach will face a major test this weekend. It will juggle an emergency diplomatic visit from the Japanese foreign minister, Nobutaka Machimura, with a possible second wave of rallies against Japan. Messages have circulated on Internet forums and mobile phones calling for demonstrations in Beijing, Shanghai, Shengyang and Chengdu, though it remains uncertain if the authorities will allow them to proceed.
 One well-connected government media editor in Beijing quoted a senior Communist Party leader as saying he was pleased with how protests unfolded last weekend. But the same official also warned about the spread of nationalist sentiment, including within the party itself.
 ''There is a state of concern, even panic, about whether this could get out of control,'' the editor said.
 Hu Jintao, China's recently anointed top leader, adopted a nationalist stance after taking full control of the government and military last fall. In March he arranged for the country's legislature to approve a law authorizing military action if Taiwan moves too far toward formal independence.
 Officials said the law was necessary because delegates at the generally passive legislature, the National People's Congress, demanded that the government do something concrete to check Taiwan's independence movement. But even Chinese officials say the legislation backfired overseas, probably delaying European plans to lift an embargo on arms sales to China.
 China often emphasizes that it intends to have a ''peaceful rise,'' integrating itself into the world economy while living in harmony with its neighbors and the United States. 
 For many years China extended that white-glove policy toward Japan. But it also fueled domestic rage with virulent anti-Japanese propaganda. Now, political analysts say, the government cannot easily suppress emotions over what many people see as Japan's failure to atone for past atrocities.
 Some analysts say the authorities have managed the protests deftly, though, tolerating and even encouraging discourse that would normally be taboo. ''I think the movement has been heavily manipulated,'' said Yu Jie, a critic of the government who has written extensively on China-Japan relations. ''The sentiment against Japan is real, but the government has co-opted it for its own purposes.''
 Officially, the Foreign Ministry says China had no choice but to allow people to protest. 
 ''This protest was held spontaneously by some Beijing people upset about Japan's wrong attitude and actions on the history of the invasion'' of China and other issues, said Qin Gang, the Foreign Ministry spokesman.
 Earlier this month a government-run association of retail stores issued an appeal to boycott Japanese-made goods. The boycott's promoters have had free rein on the Internet and the use of the tightly monitored network for mobile phone text messages.
 Internet sites and government-run newspapers have also rallied support for an online petition to keep Japan off the Security Council. The official news media claim that more than 30 million people signed the appeal.
 The police, who routinely deny permits for protest marches and sometimes detain people who seek the permits, approved the anti-Japan protest with little advance notice last week.
 But in one indication of how the government sought to manage the event, at least four leading organizers of previous grass-roots efforts to confront Japan were ordered to stay home, the four said in separate interviews. One organizer said the authorities had reminded him of that order by cellphone on Saturday.
 ''We were told this was an entirely spontaneous event, so the people leading the movement must have no role,'' said Tong Zeng, who has been organizing anti-Japan activities since the late 1980's. ''The police wanted to maintain tight control.''
 Mr. Sun, the college junior, said he felt that most of those who had taken part, like himself, cared deeply about what he said was Japan's hostility toward China. ''There is not a single person at my university who would defend Japan,'' he said. ''It is clear that the Japanese have forgotten their own past.''
 But he said the micromanagement of the protest left him feeling that his own government was ''playing tricks.''
 China arranged similar violent demonstrations against the United States in 1999, just after the American bombing of China's embassy in Belgrade. The United States called the incident, which occurred during NATO's war against Serbia, a mistake. But many Chinese saw it as intentional because China opposed the war. 
 Now, unlike 1999, the Chinese government has used the demonstrations as a popular platform for announcing a new policy. On a high-profile visit to India this week, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao bluntly stated what lower-level diplomats have been hinting for weeks: China will not allow Japan to assume a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council until it meets Chinese demands.
 ''Only a country that respects history, takes responsibility for history and wins over the trust of peoples in Asia and the world at large can take greater responsibilities in the international community,'' Mr. Wen said.
 Shi Yinhong, a foreign relations expert at People's University in Beijing, said the demand was a clear move for political leadership in Asia. 
 ''The moral issue is China's trump card over Japan,'' Mr. Shi said. ''China is now playing that card.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 6,000 marchers demonstrated in Beijing on Saturday to protest new Japanese textbooks that critics say gloss over Tokyo's wartime atrocities. They demanded a boycott against Japanese-made products. (Photo by Greg Baker/Associated Press)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); TEXTBOOKS (91%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); RIOTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); HISTORY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) World War II (1939-45); Demonstrations and Riots; Politics and Government; Textbooks; Education and Schools

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: Nobutaka (Min) Machimura; Sun Wei; Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (99%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Japan; Beijing (China); China; China

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



291 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Baby Strollers and Supermarkets Push Into the Financial District

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As the government and the private sector have spent the last three and a half years wringing their hands over the future of Lower Manhattan, a quiet residential revolution has unfolded all around them.
 There are now more than 30,000 residents living south of Chambers Street, up from an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 in the months before Sept. 11, according to real estate experts. More than 9,000 former office units in the area have been converted into apartments, a third of them since 2001 alone. New residential buildings -- unheard of a few years ago -- are going up near the World Trade Center site, bringing with them expensive gyms, new schools and restaurants. 
 And the transformation can be measured in more human ways than cold numbers. On the streets that surround City Hall -- not so long ago home only to the sort of urban pioneers who could live without nearby groceries -- baby sitters push $700 strollers past dingy bars into luxury buildings. 
 In perhaps the most telling sign yet for the area, Whole Foods has signed a lease on Warren Street, proving that wherever luxury co-op owners ultimately choose to reside, Medjool dates and organic tomatoes will follow. 
 No one, of course, is yet predicting that Lower Manhattan as a business and civic center is becoming obsolete; it remains the third-largest commercial district in the country, following Midtown Manhattan and the Loop in Chicago. But the residential real estate surge is driving the momentum of the Lower Manhattan market in ways not seen in 50 years.
 While downtown had its adventurous homesteaders in the 1980's, and office conversions were further encouraged by city tax incentives in 1995, the most recent residential explosion far surpasses both of those spurts of growth, with the city's population now exploring frontiers once regarded as odd or unworkable.
 The figures for downtown residents include those living in Battery Park City, although the rise in the area's population in recent years has occurred outside that giant complex.
 The rise in residents in the financial district has also happened in stark contrast to downtown's struggle with attracting, and keeping, commercial real estate tenants. While asking rents for commercial space have hovered around $31 per square foot a year for the last few years in the area -- far below Midtown's $59 a square foot -- co-op prices in the financial district have climbed 50 percent since 2001, with condo prices averaging about $557 per square foot, according to the real estate consultant Miller Samuel Inc.
 ''None of us are surprised about what happened in the commercial sense downtown after 9/11,'' said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairwoman of Insignia/ESG, the real estate company. 
 ''However, we never anticipated that downtown would reinvent itself and its character would change.''
 Timothy Ryan, an insurance underwriter interviewed near his apartment on Broadway and Rector Street with his 19-month-old daughter, said he was afraid the secret was out. ''This is a phenomenal place to live,'' he said. ''People are figuring out that it is pretty cool down here. You almost don't want it to change even more because it is already getting overpopulated.''
 A mixed-use, 24-hour Lower Manhattan has been the vision of many urban planners and government officials for years. 
 But there are some who fear that the area could tip too far in the residential direction, as officials and builders work to sort out the future of the former World Trade Center site.
 The first reconstructed office building at the site has yet to find a tenant, and Goldman, Sachs & Company announced last week that it had suspended plans to build a 40-story, $2 billion headquarters near the site, although it may now be reconsidering.
 Citigroup, the city's largest private employer, and other companies have shifted jobs out of the precinct.
 ''We were among the advocates and catalysts for residential development in Lower Manhattan long before Sept. 11,'' said Carl Weisbrod, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York.
 ''But it is important for us to remember that the goal here is to have a pre-eminent business district that thrives as a commercial center. It is important to strike and have a balance of commercial and residential activity.'' 
 The Bloomberg administration is cobbling together a package of incentives to lure more companies to Lower Manhattan. 
 ''I think we are coming to the point of reaching an appropriate balance of commercial and residential in Lower Manhattan,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development. ''We have to monitor very carefully what happens to that balance.'' 
 But in many ways, the flourishing of residential life in Lower Manhattan is simply a return to the past. Prior to the 1950's, the area enjoyed three centuries of street life that was a mix of residents and various businesses, said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. 
 ''This was true from the 17th century through the 1960's,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''Then, we developed this monoculture financial center south of City Hall, where nobody lives there, there was no diversity of industry mix.''
 However, in recent years, as a population boom in the city created an even more desperate need for housing, and as prices have soared throughout the city, Lower Manhattan has been explored by residents with new vigor. A Liberty bond program created after Sept. 11 to encourage residential development also contributed to the increase. There was also a grant program for reduced rent for downtown residents.
 At the same time, the future of downtown's commercial market is much more uncertain.
 ''I would have predicted two years ago that improvements down there would have gone more quickly,'' Alexander Garvin, the former chief planner for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said of the effort at ground zero and the surrounding area.
 A spokeswoman for the corporation, though, said that while some delays had occurred in planning and financial aspects of the former trade center site, ''development is not stalled.''
 Several other business leaders -- who did not want their names attached to their criticisms for fear of alienating the mayor -- said that City Hall had focused so much on the future of the West Side of Manhattan that too little had been done to advertise the value of downtown.
 Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, said numerous officials and business leaders ''can attest to the fact that this administration has been working tirelessly to address the needs of Lower Manhattan.''
 But as commercial development continues, much of it may now be geared as much toward residents and people who work downtown. Suellen Epstein, who has lived in the neighborhood for 30 years -- ''We were hiding back then,'' she said of the old days. ''Most of us were not supposed to be living there.'' -- has seen a complete shift in the children's gym she has run on Murray Street since the 1970's. 
 ''Back then, I filled up with residents from West Village and SoHo and Brooklyn Heights,'' she said. ''Now I would say 90 percent are local kids. It has gotten very dense down here with strollers on the street that were never seen before, lots of dogs and lots of children. It is great for businesses like me.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about growth in the number of people moving into Lower Manhattan misstated the title of Mary Ann Tighe, a real estate executive who said brokers had not foreseen the change. She is president of CB Richard Ellis NY Tri-State Region, not vice chairwoman of Insignia/ESG. (CB Richard Ellis acquired Insignia/ESG more than two years ago.)


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Moving Downtown''Rising costs for residential real estate downtown are a sign of increasing demand. Although downtown co-op prices have not matched those in many other parts of Manhattan, they have risen more sharply over the past six years.Average price per square foot of a 2-bedroom co-op apartmentFINANCIAL DISTRICTINCREASE FROM 1999 TO 2004: 135.2%ALL OF MANHATTANINCREASE FROM 1999 TO 2004: 87.1%UPPER WEST SIDEINCREASE FROM 1999 TO 2004: 75.2%(Source by Miller Samuel)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY PRODUCTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CITIES (88%); HIJACKING (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); AIRLINES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) History; Social Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing; Life Styles; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

PERSON: Robert D Yaro; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



292 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Rose in February, as Sales Fell

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Businesses built inventories at a slower pace in February as sales fell by the most since April 2003, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, suggesting that cooling demand will limit growth in factory orders.
 The 0.5 percent increase in stockpiles held by manufacturers, retailers and wholesalers followed a 0.9 percent rise in January, the Commerce Department said. 
Sales fell 0.4 percent.
 Waning demand gives companies fewer reasons to increase orders, add to inventories or increase payrolls as costs rise for energy and raw materials, economist said. 
 The inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of how long supplies will last at the current level of demand, increased to 1.31 months from 1.3 months in January, which matched a record low. Separate ratios for manufacturers and wholesalers were the highest in a year. 
 Also yesterday, the Labor Department reported that initial jobless claims fell 10,000 last week, to 330,000, a level that suggests the pace of hiring remains sluggish.
 ''Businesses are taking it back a notch in hiring and inventory building,'' said Elisabeth Denison, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in New York. 
 The number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance last week was close to this year's average of 326,000. The four-week moving average was 338,000, the highest since the week that ended Dec. 4. The United States has added about 159,000 jobs a month so far in 2005, compared with an average 183,000 last year.
 ''The increase in energy prices is certainly a reason for businesses to be a little more cautious on the hiring front,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



293 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Long Live the Estate Tax

 BODY:
For the fourth time in four years, the House of Representatives has passed a bill calling for the permanent repeal of the federal estate tax. The Senate should put a stop to this silliness. The only thing driving the push for repealing the estate tax is ideology. It sure isn't sound tax policy. 
 The House proposal would cost the federal government a whopping $290 billion through 2015, according to estimates by Congress's own budget agency. And that's just a start; the costs after that would be explosive. And for what? Repeal would shield the estates of the very wealthiest Americans from the tax. That's the same group that already benefits the most from Mr. Bush's tax breaks for dividends and capital gains. 
 Repeal of the estate tax was deemed too expensive in 2001, when the government was still enjoying the Clinton-era budget surplus. So it stands to reason that it's out of the question today, as America's enormous deficits weaken the domestic economy and the country's international economic leadership. But to its proponents, estate-tax repeal is the holy grail of the Republican anti-tax crusade. 
 The most commonly heard argument against the estate tax -- that it represents unfair double taxation -- is specious. First, the estate tax does not even kick in until the assets left at death exceed $1.5 million, or $3 million per married couple -- and those exemption amounts will more than double by 2009. So most Americans never even have to think about the estate tax, let alone worry about it coming on top of some other tax. 
 Second, much of the wealth transferred at death has never been taxed. That's because capital gains on assets like houses, stocks and bonds are not taxed until the asset is sold. Obviously, if you inherit, say, a house, its owner didn't sell it, so never paid any capital gains tax on it.
 Another popular argument against the estate tax -- that the rate is so high the government is basically confiscating your property -- is also a sham. Estate tax rates currently top out at 47 percent. But those rates don't even start to apply until an estate tops the multimillion-dollar exemption. As a result of the exemption and other deductions, the effective tax rate -- the percentage that is actually handed over to the government -- is much lower than the top stated rate. It was only 18.8 percent, on average, in 2003, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
 The estate-tax foes' real beef is not with the estate tax per se. It's with the principle that the more you earn, the more taxes you should pay and, specifically, with the idea of taxing capital gains. Those debates are as old as the tax system itself. The Senate must stand firm for an estate tax that provides an ample exemption of up to $2 million per person, but with a top rate, 45 percent, that ensures that a reasonable amount is actually paid to the government. Anything less would impair fairness and could be fiscally crippling for decades to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WILLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BONDS (62%) Taxation; Wills and Estates; Estates; Law and Legislation; Editorials

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



294 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Reveals the Details Of a New Stadium for the Giants

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS; Richard Sandomir contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., April 14 

 BODY:
The New York Giants will replace their aging stadium with an expanded $750 million complex in the New Jersey Meadowlands under an agreement that Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey said Thursday was ''the best deal for the taxpayers of any stadium deal in the N.F.L.'' 
 The new stadium will have 200 luxury suites -- the current stadium now has 118 -- a major expansion in club seating, new stores, restaurants and practice facilities, which altogether will nearly triple the size of the Giants' site at the Meadowlands Sports Complex, to 75 acres.
 The Giants will own and manage the stadium, while paying the state $5 million a year in rent for the land and giving it $1.3 million annually in payments in lieu of taxes. The state will pay the $125 million in existing debt on the current stadium, and the infrastructure costs for the new stadium, estimated at $30 million. 
 The agreement, struck Wednesday night between team executives and state officials, ends a dispute that had landed both parties in court and cast doubt on the future of the sports complex, which even now is being transformed by the construction of a huge entertainment and retail development. 
 Mr. Codey described the deal, a critical victory in his campaign to rescue professional sports in the state, in glowing terms at a news conference with executives of the team.
 The agreement still must be evaluated by the board of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which has called a meeting on Tuesday to vote on it. 
 And the deal has detractors, including the sports authority's executive director, George Zoffinger. Mr. Zoffinger agreed just in the last week, under pressure from Mr. Codey, not to block the proposal. But he and some others at the sports authority have maintained that it effectively gave the team a taxpayer subsidy.
 Mr. Codey and Carl Goldberg, the chairman of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, stressed that the Giants would pay all construction costs, while relieving the state of its obligation under the old lease to make improvements necessary to maintain a ''state of the art'' stadium -- an uncertain but potentially huge obligation that the Giants put at $300 million and had threatened to enforce in court.
 ''When other states are building stadiums on the backs of taxpayers, Jersey has said no,'' Mr. Codey said.
 But Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College who has written extensively on public spending on sports franchises, said Mr. Codey was ''blatantly incorrect'' in calling the stadium deal the best in the league for taxpayers. 
 Mr. Zimbalist noted that the New England Patriots and Washington Redskins play in stadiums built entirely with their owners' money, and he said that the Patriots are reimbursing the state for its $71 million in infrastructure costs.
 Still, Mr. Zimbalist said the New Jersey deal was, among N.F.L. stadiums, ''very close to the top end of taxpayer advantage, or lack of disadvantage,'' since the average public subsidy for an N.F.L. stadium is 60 percent. 
 A better deal for the state, Mr. Zimbalist said, would be losing the team altogether. But Mr. Codey made it clear from the day he took office in November that that was not an option. And after negotiations collapsed last month, Mr. Codey worked to revive them.
 In the meantime, the Giants used the ''state of the art'' provision in their lease as a potential trump, suing the sports authority to force it to pay for renovations. 
 John Mara, the Giants' executive vice president, whose family owns 50 percent of the team, said that ''there was a period of time when I was not sure we were going to make it'' but that ''that really changed over the past few days when the governor took charge of negotiations.'' 
 While the Giants are no longer pursuing the renovation issue in court, Mr. Mara said, the team is not dropping its request for an injunction to stop the construction of the Meadowlands Xanadu project at the sports complex. 
 The project, part of former Gov. James E. McGreevey's plan to ease the state out of the professional sports business, has angered the team, which claims that Xanadu patrons will interfere with game traffic and parking.
 The Giants and the Xanadu developers, the Mills Corporation and the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, must still reach a separate accord on those traffic and parking issues. While it is not clear what recourse the team would have if its concerns are not satisfied, Mr. Mara said the team was ''cautiously optimistic,'' and Robert G. Sommer, a spokesman for the Xanadu partnership, said, ''we believe, and I'm sure it's their belief, that we'll work it out.''
 The team's new agreement with New Jersey leaves open the possibility that the New York Jets, who now share the stadium with the Giants but are planning a move to the proposed West Side stadium in Manhattan, will stay. 
 The other teams at the sports complex are planning to leave, the New Jersey Devils hockey team for a new arena in Newark, the New Jersey Nets for a new arena in Brooklyn and the MetroStars soccer team to a planned stadium in Harrison, N.J. 
 The Giants do not yet have a site plan or design for their expanded new quarters, scheduled for completion in 2008. The stadium will seat 80,000, an increase of 4,000 seats, and in addition to the luxury suites will include club seating for 8,000 to 10,000 people. The current stadium has 142 club seats. The plan also calls for wider concourses and improved concession stands and bathrooms. 
 The team's lease is for 40 years with options that could extend it to 98 years. Mr. Zimbalist said that while the stadium would not be the most expensive ever built, ''it will be in the top five.''
 Mr. Mara said, ''We are currently well down in the third quartile of the N.F.L. in terms of our revenues, and we believe a new stadium will bring us into the first quartile.'' He said he had no projections on ticket costs but expected that luxury suites would cost about $200,000 a year each. 
 In addition, the state has agreed to sell naming rights to the stadium, and to give the first $12 million to the team. The state would keep up to $3 million of any excess.
 While Mr. Codey and Mr. Goldberg congratulated the team owners -- including the Maras and the Tisch family, the Giants' co-owners -- at the news conference, Mr. Zoffinger was conspicuously absent. When asked whether Mr. Zoffinger's job was safe, Mr. Codey shrugged. But Mr. Goldberg said, ''I'm sure he will be the head of the sports authority for as long as he wishes.'' Mr. Zoffinger was out of state Thursday and not available for comment.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about an agreement between New Jersey and the New York Giants for a new stadium misstated the views of Andrew Zimbalist, an economist who has written about sports franchises. He said the state was likely to realize only a slight financial benefit from keeping the team; he did not say New Jersey would be better off losing the Giants to another state.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, seated, yesterday with, from left, the Giants' co-owners, Robert Tisch and Wellington Mara
Carl Goldberg, chairman of New Jersey's Sports and Exposition Authority
Steve Tisch
 and John Mara, announcing plans for a new Giants Stadium. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



295 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic Monthly Leaving Boston in Move to Washington

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and DAVID CARR; Katherine Q. Seelye reported from Washington for this article and David Carr from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
The Atlantic Monthly, a pillar of Boston's intellectual and cultural life since its founding there in 1857, is being moved to Washington as its owner seeks to control costs and centralize his editorial operations.
 In 1999, when David G. Bradley bought The Atlantic, one of the nation's most prestigious magazines, for $10 million from Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the wealthy real estate developer, he introduced himself to the staff then as ''the man who is not moving The Atlantic to Washington.''
 ''Now I find I'm exactly that man,'' Mr. Bradley said ruefully in an interview today in his suite of offices at the Watergate with an expansive view of the Potomac River. 
 But, he added, ''I have this huge ambition for what The Atlantic can become. I want to create an animating, intellectual center and a destination for talent. It's the best thing I can do for The Atlantic.''
 Despite winning six National Magazine Awards under Mr. Bradley, The Atlantic has been struggling financially, losing $4 million to $8 million annually. Over the last six years, Mr. Bradley, 52, has poured more than $30 million into the magazine. 
 Its guaranteed circulation is on the rise, to a projected 355,000 in June, after dropping to 325,000 from 450,000 in 2003. Advertising pages are up 60 percent since 2001. Still, all of the editorial and business efforts have failed to change The Atlantic's status as a storied, but money-losing proposition.
 The magazine has a staff of 37 in Boston. In Washington, the Atlantic Media Company empire that Mr. Bradley controls, which includes the National Journal, The Hotline, Congress Daily and Government Executive, has a staff of 299. That includes 40 people who work for The Atlantic -- three writers, seven researchers and 30 business employees.
 Mr. Bradley said that the Boston office was too small to sustain and that consolidating his publishing activities here would save on costs. His main goal in doing so, however, is to ''build a large staff in a great intellectual atmosphere.'' 
 ''There is plenty of intellectual activity up there,'' he said of Boston. ''But the magazine can be more remarkable at a larger scale.''
 Mr. Bradley said he wanted to hire perhaps two dozen new writers. Some of them could be based anywhere but most, he said, would work in Washington, ''in an office with others, sharing editorial ideas, creating an intellectual atmosphere.''
 ''It's intangible,'' he said of what he wanted to create. ''But I've seen how electric talent animates electric talent.''
 Mr. Bradley said he would allow about six editors to stay in Boston. But his managing editor, Cullen Murphy, said he would leave the magazine after overseeing the transition to Washington during the next several months. Mr. Murphy, who began running the magazine in the fall of 2002, said that he wanted to stay in Boston, maintaining his relationships there and finishing a long-delayed book on the Spanish Inquisition.
 ''This has been a fascinating and complicated job, and from time to time I have found myself day-dreaming about what it would be like if I did not have it,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''I have a great breadth and depth of commitments to friends and institutions here, and I confess to not having the same feelings about Washington.''
 Mr. Bradley is asking other employees in Boston -- fact-checkers, researchers, designers, secretaries -- to move to Washington. Those who decide not to move will receive a year's severance pay and benefits.
 ''A lot of us have made it our lives to help build this magazine and we are heartened that David Bradley wants to keep it alive over the long term,'' said Corby Kummer, an editor who has worked at the magazine for 24 years. ''We share that desire, but the disruption is bound to be upsetting for a lot of people.''
 The staff will be leaving behind offices that are decorated with correspondence from some of the magazine's storied contributors, including Virginia Woolf, William James, Henry James and Ralph Waldo Emerson.
 ''The artifacts on the wall and the bound volumes in our shelves are not the soul of the magazine,'' said Mr. Murphy. ''It is our animating purpose and a kind of journalistic ethos, and those things are moveable.''
 Mr. Bradley said he did not move The Atlantic when he first bought it out of deference to its Boston heritage. The magazine was founded by a group of New England writers, including Emerson and James Russell Lowell, who wanted to expand the market for uniquely American literary voices. It went on to publish Hawthorne, Longfellow, Thoreau, Stowe and many others and has been credited with making writing an economically viable profession in the United States.
 The archetype of the high-quality nineteenth-century magazine, The Atlantic stood against slavery and was the first to publish a defense of Darwin. Its Yankee founders were eager to mold their readers' characters, develop their intellects and shape their cultural values. It was this mission that tied the magazine with the Puritan ethic of Boston, from which it so naturally grew.
 ''If I were only honoring its heritage, I would leave it in Boston,'' Mr. Bradley said.
 By moving to Washington, Mr. Bradley is in part expressing his continuing fascination with government and national policy. The Atlantic recently announced that it was going to discontinue publishing regular fiction in an effort to create additional space for lengthy reporting, much of it about the government.
 In particular, the magazine has given James Fallows, the prominent Washington writer who is one of its national correspondents, a great deal of space for his various critiques of the war in Iraq and the Bush administration, reporting that has earned the magazine significant notice.
 Mr. Bradley said he began mulling the move two years ago, after Michael Kelly, the magazine's editor, was killed while reporting in Iraq.
 He said that the absence of Mr. Kelly, to whom he had become unusually close despite certain professional tensions, made him ''mindful of the geography issue.''
 The departure of the magazine, combined with the exit of Fast Company several years ago, leaves the Boston publishing scene a smaller place. 
 ''Independence in magazine publishing used to be a good thing,'' said Christopher Kimball, founder and editor of Cook's Illustrated, which is located in Brookline Village, just outside Boston. ''The Atlantic has done a terrific job in the past few years, and I think that physical independence has been a part of that. You are farther from the suits and that is a good thing.''
 Mr. Bradley said he did not want to be in Boston today while Mr. Murphy broke the news to the staff. ''They'll be more comfortable in a raw moment with Cullen,'' he said.
 But he said he was devoting himself to the magazine ''for as long as I'm allowed,'' perhaps another 20 years. ''The last living cell in me wants to make The Atlantic spectacular,'' he said. ''I may fail at it, but it will not be because I ignored my ambition.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David G. Bradley, who bought The Atlantic Monthly for $10 million in 1999, hopes for an ''intellectual atmosphere'' in the nation's capital. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); PUBLISHING (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%) Magazines; Relocation of Business; Magazines

ORGANIZATION: Atlantic Monthly

PERSON: David G Bradley; Mortimer B Zuckerman; Katharine Q Seelye; David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Boston (Mass); Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



296 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1885 words

HEADLINE: A Bonus for Health, Payable to the Doctor

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA and REED ABELSON

 BODY:
A quiet revolution is taking place in Medicare, one that could set a new standard for the way medicine is practiced in this country.
 For the first time in its history, Medicare is starting to embrace an approach that has changed industries as diverse as carmakers and fast-food restaurants -- giving employees financial incentives to meet goals for quality. 
 By the end of this year, more than 600,000 Medicare recipients will be in test programs that pay doctors and hospitals bonuses for achieving better results, like increasing the number of diabetic patients whose blood sugar is under control. 
 Some see this experiment as the last best hope for a medical system in crisis, facing soaring costs and questions about what all that money is buying.
 At the Marshfield Clinic in Wisconsin, which is participating in a three-year program for doctors that began April 1, it means adopting a new philosophy of treatment. 
 The stakes could hardly be higher, said Dr. Michael A. Hillman, who oversees quality issues at the clinic. If the pay-for-performance approach fails, he asserted, ''the alternatives are far worse than anything we have now.''
 Although some medical specialists say that a performance-based system could prove unworkable, all agree that the test programs are a radical departure from the way that Medicare and nearly every private insurer operates.
 Under the current system, many doctors and hospitals are paid to do more -- see more patients, perform more tests, conduct more procedures -- without regard to quality or results. 
 The ambitious Medicare experiment is meant to change all that. And if it is eventually adopted throughout the federal program, which covers 42 million Americans, Medicare's size and influence could help drive the rest of private health coverage in a similar direction. 
 Under the doctors' test program, which involves 10 large groups covering around 200,000 patients, physicians will receive bonuses if they measurably improve care for patients with common chronic diseases, including congestive heart failure, coronary disease, diabetes and high blood pressure. 
 To qualify for the bonuses, the doctors must also provide preventive services like vaccines and cancer screening, and they must save Medicare money by keeping patients out of the hospital and eliminating unnecessary procedures. 
 A similar pay-for-performance program involving 280 hospitals is already under way. Later this spring, Medicare will post on its Web site (www.HospitalCompare.hhs.gov) scores on 34 measures of performance for those hospitals the Web site recently posted general performance data on 3,800 hospitals across the country). A third pilot program to begin later this year will focus on chronic-care management companies that help patients cope with diabetes and other long-term illnesses.
 ''It's hard to convey how big this is going to be, but it's going to be big,'' said Dr. Mark B. McClellan, Medicare's top administrator.
 Yet Dr. McClellan, who is both an internist and economist, is meeting with skepticism from those who say that measuring performance may be nearly impossible because doctors routinely disagree about which treatments work best.
 ''The reality of it is we have very little hard-core information on which we base our treatment methods,'' said Dr. Edward C. Benzel, chairman of the Spine Institute at the Cleveland Clinic. But Dr. Hillman of the Marshfield Clinic says there is little choice but to try because the current system no longer works. ''Unfortunately,'' he said, ''paying for health care is like buying a car based on how many parts it has and how long it takes to make it, without considering how well it runs.'' 
 With medical costs soaring, fueled in part by sometimes unnecessary or inappropriate procedures, few would dispute that there is a need to make changes in the economics of Medicare, a program approaching $400 billion a year in spending -- even if it means moving into largely uncharted territory. 
 Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey took such a step late in 2003, signing up for the Medicare pilot project for hospitals. To qualify for bonus payments, it agreed to report its performance on a variety of measures, including death rates after bypass surgery and the percentage of hip-replacement patients who are readmitted to the hospital. Right away, Hackensack detected a few problem areas, like the way intravenous antibiotics were used after orthopedic surgery.
 Under guidelines based on data from clinical trials, an orthopedic-surgery patient should be taken off the antibiotic after 24 hours because longer use does not prevent infection, costs money and may lead to greater antibiotic resistance. 
 Yet Hackensack found that its surgeons were keeping a quarter of their surgery patients on the drugs for longer than 24 hours, either because of their training or because they forgot to write orders to stop the drug. The surgeons solved the problem by issuing a blanket order to stop the intravenous antibiotic automatically after 24 hours. Within a week, 94 percent of patients had their antibiotics withdrawn on time.
 To surgeons who protested that longer treatment was better, said Dr. John Andronaco, chairman of the hospital's department of orthopedic surgery, ''I'd tell them, 'You're entitled to your opinion, but there's no validity to it.'''
 By meeting that standard, the hospital moves closer to qualifying for a Medicare bonus for the first time, which could be as much as $1 million for this year. To continue getting bonuses, the hospital would have to sustain its performance. 
 Medicare expects to pay $21 million in bonuses to hospitals over the course of the three-year project, says Stuart Guterman, who oversees research and development for Medicare. ''Our notion was that we would be able to save at least that much money,'' he said. 
 Doctors participating in the trials risk being rated below their peers, said Dr. Thomas Knight, medical director of quality improvement and disease management at the Forsyth Medical Group in Winston-Salem, N.C. His group signed up in part because payment for performance is a potential way to avoid Medicare fee cuts. 
 Under the old formula, Medicare is expected to reduce doctors' fees about 5 percent a year for the next six years. The way for doctors to maintain their incomes would be to do more of everything. ''We're trying to see too many patients,'' Dr. Knight said, ''trying to go faster and faster because the rates are dropping.'' 
 But he acknowledged that moving to performance-based pay would be hard for some to accept. ''Some physicians probably will be paid more than others,'' Dr. Knight said. 
 Medicare is not the first to experiment with pay-for-performance strategies in health care. Some 100 such programs have been created by insurers and employers, according to a survey by Med-Vantage, a consulting group. But those programs, doctors and researchers say, are too small to make much of a difference nationally, and the evidence is mixed on how well they work.
 In a Blue Cross-Blue Shield managed-care program in Rochester, for example, what each of the 900 primary-care doctors receive in an annual performance evaluation can mean a difference of about $15,000 a year in their pay. 
 Doctors have 10 percent of their salary withheld to cover unexpected expenses, and whatever is left each year is divided among them, depending on their scores on a performance report card. 
 ''Physicians say, 'I'm a professional. I don't think money is an influence,''' said Dr. Howard Beckman, who administers the plan under the Rochester Independent Practice Association. ''Then, when money comes in, it's an influence, which makes them madder, although no one yet has returned the money.'' 
 That does not mean they approve of the system. Dr. Peter L. Kogut Jr., a gynecologist in Rochester, for one, complains that the system does not evaluate doctors fairly. 
 Most of his patients, for example, are in their 50's or older because he does not provide obstetric care. Yet he is being compared to gynecologists who deliver babies and have much younger patients. 
 ''If I have a 50-year-old patient with a breast lump, that's different from a patient who's 30 and thinks she feels a breast lump,'' he said, adding that lumps in younger women almost always go away with their next menstrual period. With a middle-age woman, he said, ''I have to be more aggressive and I potentially get penalized.''
 The question Dr. Kogut raises -- how to compare quality of care when the patients differ -- is a challenge that Medicare officials acknowledge. 
 Dr. Robert E. Harbaugh, neurosurgery chairman at the Penn State College of Medicine, says it is easy to determine a diabetic patient's blood-sugar level or whether someone survived cardiac surgery. But in surgery on malignant brain tumors, a condition where mortality may be unavoidable, or treatments of back pain, where pain relief can be subjective, he said, ''it's hard to come up with a nice objective system.'' 
 And because measurements can be inexact, the fear, he said, is that a Medicare system that rewards better outcomes will penalize doctors who treat patients with riskier health problems or will cause some doctors to avoid such patients altogether. 
 Two patients undergoing surgery for an aneurysm, for example, may present a similar health picture: both are smokers with hypertension and diabetes, and the same age. But the size and location of the aneurysm could mean the difference between a mortality rate of a few percentage points to one as high as 25 percent. The two patients could be ''wildly different in regards to their surgical risk,'' Dr. Harbaugh said. 
 Some critics also worry that publicly rating doctors against one another discourages the sharing of best practices.
 Despite these potential drawbacks, many health care specialists say pay for performance would still serve patients and payers better than the financial incentives under traditional Medicare. 
 For instance, when Intermountain Health Care, the Salt Lake City hospital system, embarked on an initiative several years ago to improve care for pneumonia patients by making sure that they received the right drugs, it lost money because Medicare pays less when patients have fewer complications. 
 ''Our big bugaboo out there is Medicare,'' said Dr. Brent C. James, who leads Intermountain's quality initiatives. Intermountain has been able to negotiate contracts with private plans where they share in the cost savings created by improving care, he said, but ''Medicare is take it or leave it.'' While Dr. James is encouraged by some of Medicare's new pilot programs, he notes that improvements in pneumonia care would still leave his hospital in the red because of the way Medicare's payment system is structured.
 ''No good deed goes unpunished in health care finance today,'' he said. ''Better care for patients creates windfall savings for purchasers, leaving you carrying the bag.'' 
 Medicare officials like Dr. McClellan say the pilot projects will help them learn to get the payment structure right. ''When all else fails,'' he said, ''what Medicare has tended to resort to doing is cutting benefits, cutting payments to providers. That is an indicator that we haven't figured out how to do things better.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. C1)Chart: ''Changing Incentives''Medicare is working to bring incentive-based pay to the practice of medicine through three-year trial programs with doctor's groups, hospitals and chronic care management companies.Medicares incentive-based trial programsDOCTORSSTART DATE: April 05PARTICIPANTS: Ten large medical groups of at least 200 doctors eachPATIENTS More than 200,000PROGRAM OVERVIEW: The government will make bonus payments to the groups that meet certain performance measures. It expects the money to come from savings through better patient care.HOSPITALSSTART DATE: Oct. 03PARTICIPANTS: 280 hospitals
rural and urban with a broad mix of patientsPATIENTS: More than 200,000 in any yearPROGRAM OVERVIEW: Hospitals in the top 10 percent in meeting 34 performance measures will be paid a 2 percent bonus
 the next 10 percent will get a 1 percent bonus. Those that do not meet minimum requirements in the third year may get reduced fees. Results will be reported on Medicares Web site.CHRONIC CARE MANAGERSSTART DATE: This springPARTICIPANTS: Nine insurance and disease management companiesPATIENTS: 150,000 to 200,000PROGRAM OVERVIEW: Companies will contract to save Medicare at least 5 percent of the traditional cost of caring for patients with chronic, expensive conditions, like diabetes, as long as they also meet quality and satisfaction criteria.(Source by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)(pg. C2)Graph shows the average spending by Medicare for each person enrolled, in 2004 dollars. (Source by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DIABETES (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CANCER (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); HYPERTENSION (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); HEART DISEASE (66%); VACCINES (64%); WEB SITES (60%); AUTOMAKERS (57%); FAST FOOD (57%) Medicine and Health; Wages and Salaries; Bonuses; Medicare; Hospitals; Doctors; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata; Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



297 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Accusations Against Lobbyist Echo Charges in 70's Scandal

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Back then the commodity in play was rice and this time, a criminal complaint alleges, it was oil. But nearly 30 years after Tongsun Park, a South Korean businessman, stood at the center of the Koreagate influence-peddling scandal that rocked official Washington, he has emerged at the center of the United Nations' Iraqi oil-for-food scandal -- accused in a strikingly similar scheme.
 Mr. Park is 70 now, no longer the brash Georgetown host and bon vivant known as the ''Onassis of the Orient'' and famous in the eight-track era for his $32,000 stereo system, chauffeured limousine and a guest list that ran the gamut from Gerald R. Ford to Frank Sinatra. But the complaint unsealed in Manhattan on Thursday suggests that age may not have slowed his approach. 
 In 1977, Mr. Park was charged with 36 counts of conspiracy, bribery, mail fraud, failure to register as a foreign agent and making illegal political contributions. A long investigation found that he had concocted a scheme, with the help of high-ranking Korean Central Intelligence Agency officials, to collect inflated commissions from sales of American-grown rice to South Korea, and to use some of the money to buy support for South Korea in Congress.
 The charges were later dropped, after Mr. Park testified at Congressional hearings and in front of federal grand juries. His testimony led to ethics proceedings and criminal charges against several members of Congress and former members and made him a boldface name in the string of post-Watergate corruption inquiries conducted here in the late 1970's.
 Now, federal prosecutors in Manhattan say in a criminal complaint that he was paid at least $2 million by Saddam Hussein's Iraq for lobbying United Nations officials to create the oil-for-food program. That program waived the economic penalties imposed after the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and let Iraq sell oil, ostensibly to buy aid supplies. The complaint charges Mr. Park, who is believed to be in South Korea, only with failing to register as a foreign agent, as required by law. He could face up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted.
 The complaint also makes the even more tantalizing assertion that Mr. Park told a fellow lobbyist for Iraq, who has since become an informant for the government, that he needed money from Iraq to ''take care'' of ''expenses and his people,'' which the informant understood to mean an unnamed, high-ranking United Nations official.
 The informant also said Mr. Park told him that he had invested $1 million of the money he received from Iraq in a Canadian company established by the son of another unnamed high-ranking United Nations official.
 It was not immediately clear why Mr. Park had not already been arrested. The complaint says that he entered the United States at Dulles International Airport outside Washington as recently as December and that a copy of the passport he presented then showed that he was in Jordan twice in 1997, around the time the informant remembers his discussing trips to Baghdad, via Jordan.
 Throughout the 1980's and 1990's, Mr. Park, who was a Sunday school teacher and a violinist in the Tacoma Symphony while he was in college in Washington State, would periodically return to the capital, for parties at the private George Town Club, which he had helped found in his heyday. Regulars there included Thomas G. Corcoran, the New Deal aide who became a lobbyist, and Anna C. Chennault, the widow of Maj. Gen. Claire L. Chennault, the commander of the famous ''Flying Tigers'' in World War II.
 ''I would never abandon Washington,'' Mr. Park once said. ''Washington is a marvelous city for someone like me. Where else could a foreigner, an outsider like myself, do the things I was able to do?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tongsun Park in 1978, during an inquiry into influence-peddling. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); ETHICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); CRIMINAL FINES (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); RICE FARMING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); DESERT STORM (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%) Bribery; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Biographical Information; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) Tongsun Park; Todd S Purdum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) IRAQ (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



298 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; DRIVING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: The VW Scirocco Gets Its Second Wind 

BYLINE: By DAVID PUNER

 BODY:
RIDING piggyback atop a flatbed truck, cloaked only by the translucent dawn, a sunflower-yellow Scirocco recently arrived in Westmoreland County, Pa., sending a 1970's ripple through the region. The '75 Volkswagen may not have blown into town quite like the desert wind for which it was named, but at least one driver out at 5:30 a.m. took note. ''Some kid in a hot red Honda pulled up beside the truck, and it looked like he was going to break his neck the way he was staring at the car,'' said Trevor Hill, the Sirocco's new owner. ''Before the Hondas, these were big,'' he explained. 
 Mr. Hill, 34, acquired his Scirocco on eBay after placing a last-minute $5,600 winning bid, then made an overnight trip to St. Louis to haul it home. ''The more I looked at it, the more I wanted it,'' said Mr. Hill, who runs a garage specializing in Porsches and owns and operates Subway sandwich franchises. He figures he has owned more than 100 Sciroccos and, at the time of the eBay auction, had three (if you count the sandblasted 1975 carcass leaning against a wall of his garage). But he couldn't resist the yellow coupe. With its unblemished dashboard, a swinging-70's yellow plaid interior, unworn pedal pads and a dealer-installed AM/FM/8-track player, he said it was the most nearly period-perfect Scirocco he had ever seen. For another $1,000 he plans to make it stock-perfect. ''It's a first-year car,'' he said. ''I've seen four of them in my life.'' He owns two of those four.
 When the Scirocco arrived in American showrooms in 1975, it was a distinct departure from VW's previous sports coupe, the rear-engine, rear-drive, air-cooled Karmann Ghia. The Scirocco was a front-engine, front-drive, water-cooled design. In North America, it was marketed as a car with German engineering and Italian style -- a nimble performer that didn't guzzle gas and looked good. Designed by Giorgetto Giugiaro, the Scirocco had stylish quad headlights, a hatch and a wide-stance wedge shape. But the Scirocco was never a big seller in the United States, with only about 230,000 sold from 1975 to 1988. (In the same period, more than 1.5 million Toyota Celicas hit American roadways.) Still, the car has maintained a devoted following and may be on its way to becoming a collector's car.
 In 1975, the Scirocco, priced at about $5,000, was not inexpensive. Its roomier econobox sibling, the Rabbit, also introduced in 1975, was cheaper at $3,300. Unsurprisingly, the Rabbit had a bigger debut, selling 98,000 cars in the United States that year. Only 16,000 Sciroccos found buyers. 
 The first-generation Scirocco -- officially designated the Mk1 -- was sold in the United States from 1975 to 1981 with few major changes. The next generation, Mk2, was a few inches longer and had rectangular headlights, a more powerful engine (including VW's first 16-valve as an option in 1986) and softer lines. The Mk2 was available in the United States from 1982 to 1988.
 First-generation Sciroccos were notorious rust buckets. Of the Sciroccos sold in the United States, 150,000 were Mk1's and 80,000 were Mk2's, and it is far easier to find examples of the latter still on the road. And though Scirocco fans are devoted to the cars, they have yet to push prices into the stratosphere. Today, a decent-running Scirocco can still be found for less than $1,000. For $6,000 you can buy a pristine one, even an Mk1 if you're patient and lucky. 
 ''I don't think people see these cars as collectible yet,'' said Brett Van Sprewenburg, 36, who operates Scirocco.org, a comprehensive enthusiast Web site, and is a software engineer for Eastman Kodak in Virginia. He added, ''Cars are not a good investment unless you're buying Ferraris.'' 
 Scirocco enthusiasts admire both generations. ''If you're a Scirocco head, you tend to like the Series 1, but the lack of Scirocco 1's brings you right into the Scirocco 2, which has close to the same feel,'' said Eric Ryzerski, 33, who owns a swimming pool company in Bedford Hills, N.Y. 
 That distinctive feel has a lot to do with its weight. ''They're very small cars by today's standards,'' Mr. Van Sprewenburg said. Indeed, a Scirocco Mk1 is almost 20 inches shorter than one of today's smaller cars, the 2005 Honda Civic Coupe.
 Mr. Van Sprewenburg has owned a dozen of the cars over the years. ''They look like little go-karts,'' he said. Driving a Scirocco, regardless of model, he said, is an experience that connects a driver with the road. ''The car really talks to you,'' he said.
 It speaks to nostalgia as well. ''Guys generally like cars that came out when they were in high school,'' said Mr. Ryzerski, who has owned six Sciroccos (two Mk1's and four Mk2's) and has had his current Scirocco, a 1988 16-valve -- the last of the Mohegans, since 1991, when he was in college. He said that over the years he had spent easily $50,000 on the car. ''The bottom line is you spend a lot of money on it, even if it's in perfect condition when you buy it,'' he said. ''And it won't be worth more.''
 Also the owner of a 1988 16-valve, Mr. Van Sprewenburg got his first Scirocco, a 1978, when he was 17 years old. ''I was bit,'' he said. ''This car is unique, unusual, cheap to run, easy to maintain and fast. Remember, the Mustang in the day was a four-cylinder. The American cars were big and slow. The Sciroccos were light and could turn,'' he said. ''Did I mention that it was fast?'' A stock 16-valve Scirocco had a top speed of 124 miles an hour. 
 FUN-TO-DRIVE, inexpensive sports cars became increasingly plentiful in the 80's, and the Scirocco's rising price put it at a disadvantage. ''The downfall of the Scirocco,'' Mr. Van Sprewenburg said, ''is they were too expensive. No one could reconcile paying so much for a Volkswagen.'' The price on a loaded 1988 16-valve had grown to around $18,000 -- with leather seats, a sunroof, air-conditioning and other options, the Scirocco had become weighed down with creature comforts that some purists considered un-Scirocco. Volkswagen, which had continued to sell the car in other markets, discontinued it after the 1992 model year. Over its entire run, about 800,000 Sciroccos were sold worldwide. 
 With time, Trevor Hill said, Scirocco values will increase significantly, ''when people who grew up with these cars will have expendable money and want to buy them.'' Mr. Hill added, however, that there would always be a limit on how much someone would pay for a Scirocco. ''Volkswagens are nice, but if you want the really cool Volkswagen,'' he said, ''you buy a Porsche.'' 
 Sitting behind the wheel of the yellow Scirocco inside his shop, wearing a Volkswagen baseball hat, Mr. Hill looked as if he could still be in high school as he fired up his new car. ''It revs up pretty good,'' he said matter-of-factly, filling the room with fumes. ''My wife thinks I'm nuts,'' he said with a trace of a grin. ''She hates the fact that I have so many cars. She says, 'How many cars do you need?' I say, 'As many as I can get!''' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: ENTHUSIAST -- Trevor Hill of Youngwood, Pa., with three of his Sciroccos. ''The more I looked at it,'' he said of his most recent purchase, center, ''the more I wanted it.'' Left, that car's dashboard. (Photographs by Lisa Kyle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUCTIONS (73%) Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen Ag

PERSON: Trevor Hill; David Puner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



299 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Panel Allows U.S. to Maintain Duties on Foreign Steel Imports

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
The United States can maintain its tariffs on steel imports from Japan, Russia and Brazil, after an independent trade panel found Thursday that removing the duties would harm the United States steel industry.
 The International Trade Commission in Washington voted 4 to 2 on Thursday that those protections were still warranted. The duties on hot flat-rolled steel -- ranging from about 20 percent to 50 percent -- raised market prices when they were first imposed five years ago as a way to protect American steel companies harmed by foreign competitors dumping products at below-market rates. 
 Steel companies and lawmakers from steel-producing states had urged the trade commission to see that the duties were kept, saying their removal would lead to a rise in cheap imports. The protections have been a rare boon for a steel industry that has endured at least 19 bankruptcies since 1998 and the closing or takeover of dozens of other mills.
 ''This ruling recognizes that the fundamental problems facing the steel industry haven't changed over the last five years,'' said Peter Morici, an independent economist who testified before the trade commission on behalf of companies like Nucor, the second-largest United States steel maker after U.S. Steel. 
 United States steel prices reached a record high last year, though they may fall this year as distributors of the metal bought more than they needed from producers, executives have said.
 The share of flat-rolled steel used in the United States that was bought overseas has fallen to 7.1 percent, from 15 percent, since the duties were imposed, and prices have tripled to a record $756 a ton in September, from $260 in March 2002.
 The industry says tariff protection is still needed as it continues to rebuild itself after a surge of imports into the United States caused profit declines and job losses at American steel companies in the 1990's.
 Others, however, said the industry was now healthy enough to fend for itself. ''It's unfortunate that the steel industry is receiving continued protection it doesn't need,'' said Lewis Leibowitz, a lawyer with Hogan & Hartson who represents steel consumers like Illinois Tool Works. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); TAKEOVERS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (62%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%) Steel and Iron; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements

COMPANY: HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP (52%); ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: International Trade Commission (US)

TICKER: ITW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (52%); SIC3542 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL FORMING TYPE (52%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (52%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (92%) Japan; Russia; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



300 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plunge To New Lows For the Year

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The major stock market gauges fell yesterday to their lowest levels this year, as investors worried about slower growth. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 1.2 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed down 1.4 percent, despite a strong earnings report from Apple Computer.
 After the market closed, I.B.M. said that its first-quarter earnings fell short of estimates. The surprising announcement may lead stocks lower today. Shares of I.B.M. fell 5 percent in after-hours trading. 
 The Nasdaq, down 10.5 percent for the year, has given up all the gains from last year's postelection rally, which turned 2004 to a pretty good year from a bad year. The Dow, off 4.7 percent on the year, and S.&P. 500, down 4.1 percent in 2005, have given up most of their postelection gains.
 ''Almost overnight we have gone from worrying about inflation to worrying about economic growth,'' said Edward E. Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Oak Associates, a money manager.
 Stocks that are sensitive to signs of slowing growth led the market lower yesterday. Caterpillar, General Motors, 3M, DuPont, Honeywell, United Technologies, Wal-Mart, Citigroup and Alcoa, all in this category, accounted for about 91 points of the Dow's 125-point decline. Shares of General Motors fell nearly 6 percent, or $1.67, to $26.66 -- its lowest since January 1993.
 The Morgan Stanley cyclical index of 30 stocks fell 2.7 percent, after dropping 1.9 percent Wednesday.
 After a report on Wednesday of a weak 0.3 percent increase in retail sales last month and a report Tuesday of an unexpected surge in the nation's trade deficit in February, some economists have lowered their forecasts for growth in the first quarter.
 These signs of a possible slowdown are making them wonder how much more high oil and gasoline prices will slow consumer spending and whether American exports will continue to be weaker than forecast.
 The new data and some cautious comments from executives that have reported first-quarter earnings have raised questions about whether the economy is headed for a soft patch, Mr. Yardeni said.
 ''But I think the market is reacting like it is more than a soft patch,'' he said.
 The hints of softness, combined with crude oil prices stubbornly above $50 a barrel and worries by Federal Reserve officials about inflationary pressures, mean that even positive corporate news is not enough for investors. Take Apple Computer, which reported spectacular earnings for the three months ending in March after the market closed Wednesday, and said that the earnings and profits would be better in the next quarter.
 Investors wanted more. Shares of Apple, which led both the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq lower yesterday, plunged $3.78, or 9.2 percent, to $37.26. It dropped 3.8 percent on Wednesday before the market closed.
 Oil prices, which had been slipping earlier this week, did not help yesterday. After coming tantalizingly close to falling below $50 a barrel on Wednesday, crude oil for May delivery rose 91 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $51.13 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Not everyone, is convinced that the economy is slowing, and Mr. Yardeni of Oak Associates is among the unpersuaded. 
 In a note to clients, economists at UBS said, ''we would argue against extrapolating this weakening as much more than a temporary pattern, however.''
 ''After all, gasoline prices are unlikely to keep rising 35 cents per gallon every six weeks -- as they have over the last six weeks,'' the note said.
 The Dow fell 125.18 points, to 10,278.75 -- its lowest level since Nov. 3, when it jumped 1 percent the day after the election. The Nasdaq declined 27.66 points, to 1,946.71, its lowest since Oct. 26. The S.&P. 500 dropped 11.74 points, to 1,162.05, its lowest since Nov. 4.
 The prospect of slower growth, which could reduce inflationary pressures, helped the bond market rally modestly. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 4.31 percent, from 4.37 percent Wednesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, jumped 13/32, to 97 16/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December 2004. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INFLATION (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); EXPORT PRICES (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); RETAIL SALES (65%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); ALCOA INC (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



301 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Student's Arrest at G.O.P. Convention Puts His Life in Limbo

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
Yusuke Joshua Banno is a college student from Arizona marooned in Manhattan. In his old life, he would be feeding his two chickens, riding his bike and working in the maintenance department of the student union. He would also be graduating next month.
 Instead, Mr. Banno is answering phones at a Midtown restaurant, Blockhead's Burritos, to help pay legal expenses. He has fallen a semester behind at Prescott College in Tucson, and is learning more about criminal law than he ever cared to know. 
 The change in Mr. Banno's life dates from August, when he traveled by bus to New York City to join crowds of protesters at the Republican National Convention. 
 He was arrested on Aug. 29 and was charged with assault and reckless endangerment, accused of igniting a papier-mache dragon. For months he has proclaimed his innocence, saying that in the chaos of the crowd, the police just picked the wrong person. Last week, prosecutors seemed to agree, after concluding that a police officer had misidentified Mr. Banno.
 Yesterday, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney's office said the case would probably be dismissed.
 Behind the story of Mr. Banno's legal travails, there is a personal one. It is a tale of the obstacles and financial hardships faced by an ordinary family in a case that appears likely to be dismissed, like so many others from convention week. As of last month, about 80 percent of the convention arrests had been dismissed, adjourned in contemplation of dismissal, or ended in acquittals, according to statistics from the district attorney's office.
 Beyond the immediate problem of the charges, which could have brought Mr. Banno a prison term of up to seven years, money was a serious concern. His lawyer, Sabrina Shroff, took the case for a very low fee, but it would still cost thousands of dollars to take to trial.
 For Mr. Banno's mother, Betty Jo Banno, who learned of his arrest while watching television at home in Prescott, Ariz., the amount of her son's bail, $200,000, came as an early shock.
 ''I just couldn't believe it; I thought it couldn't be real,'' she said, sitting on a couch in a Midtown apartment that she sublet for herself, her son and out-of-towners involved in the case. ''The first thing I thought was, 'I don't have $200,000.''' 
 ''They said, 'What do you have?' and I said, 'I can use my house as collateral.''' 
 Mr. Banno's friends mobilized for his defense. They held a potluck party in Tucson. One friend started a Web site. Another sold T-shirts. His college put out a jar for donations. A friend, Toby Fraser, watched dozens of hours of videotape at the National Lawyers Guild, an advocacy group for change in political and economic matters.
 Mr. Banno spent six days in jail, avoiding the meat dishes and eating canned string beans, mashed potatoes and grits. He was not allowed to make long-distance phone calls, so Ms. Shroff arranged a conference call so he and his mother could talk.
 Eventually, Mr. Banno's bail was reduced to $10,000. Mrs. Banno wiped out nearly half her savings to send the bail money. As the case wound its way through the legal system, Mr. Banno's trial was delayed five times, Ms. Shroff said. Mrs. Banno bought plane tickets for herself, Ms. Shroff, Mr. Fraser and four witnesses.
 In January, Mrs. Banno took a leave from her job to help with the trial preparations. She took out a $55,000 home equity loan to cover her family's living expenses. In all, she said, she has spent about $30,000 on the case.
 ''I used to feel pretty free going out to eat and taking a trip to visit my mom in Hawaii,'' Mrs. Banno said. ''All of that has pretty much stopped.''
 The ordeal has created plenty of tension for Mr. Banno's extended family in Japan. His father, who is Japanese and works in Fukuoka as a yoga teacher, was told by his relatives that his son's arrest had shamed them. Mrs. Banno has not heard from her in-laws since then.
 After months of pressing the case for Mr. Banno's innocence, a big break came late last month, when Ms. Shroff and Mr. Fraser tracked down time-sequence photographs taken by a Daily News photographer that showed Mr. Banno was far from where the fire began. A week later, prosecutors stated in court that the officer had misidentified Mr. Banno, and yesterday a spokeswoman said that the case would probably be dropped.
 For Mrs. Banno, it was not a moment too soon.
 ''I want our calm life back,'' she said. ''I can't wait to go home.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: New evidence indicates that the case against Yusuke Joshua Banno, who was arrested in New York in August 2004, may soon be dropped. (Photo by Mike Falco for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LAWYERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ACQUITTAL (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); STATISTICS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



302 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Hurts So Good

BYLINE: By Joseph J. Thorndike. 
Joseph J. Thorndike is a contributing editor at Tax Analysts, a nonprofit provider of tax information.

DATELINE: Arlington, Va. 

 BODY:
WITH tax returns due today, we hear the usual complaints about the onerous tax system and the hassle of filing taxes. Certainly the tax code is incredibly complicated, but in fact filing taxes is too easy, not too hard. With paid preparers and sophisticated software, most Americans are protected from grappling with the worst features of the modern tax system. This may seem like a good thing, but it comes at a steep price. 
 Once upon a time, Americans realized that something beneficial came from the pain of paying taxes. In the 1920's, Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon made this case repeatedly. ''Nothing,'' he told Congress, ''brings home to a man the feeling that he personally has an interest in seeing that government revenues are not squandered, but intelligently expended, as the fact that he contributes individually a direct tax, no matter how small, to his government.'' 
 In 1955, the commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, T. Coleman Andrews, went so far as to decree that the agency should stop helping people fill out their tax forms. His reasoning? Americans should be educated, not coddled. It did a citizen good to come face to face with his tax bill. 
 But Mr. Andrews's edict was soon rescinded by his successor. What's more, his decision activated the law of unintended consequences. The I.R.S. pushed fledgling taxpayers out of the nest just long enough to let H&R Block build a new one. 
 Over the next half-century, more and more Americans turned to the private sector for help with their taxes. By 2002, more than half of all returns came from paid preparers. More recently, software has eased the burden for those determined to go it alone; such programs can reduce thorny tax calculations to a series of simple questions. With each year, Americans have become increasingly insulated from the trauma of figuring out what they have to pay.
 So why is this bad? When it comes to taxes, pain can be a good thing. It keeps people vigilant, encouraging them to keep a wary eye on government. That, in turn, exposes problems and encourages reform. Making taxes easy removes an impetus for Americans to force the government to do something about the tax code.
 Consider the alternative minimum tax. Congress created the tax in 1969 to ensure that rich Americans don't take advantage of so many deductions and exemptions that they pay little or no tax. But lawmakers failed to index the tax for inflation. Each year, as incomes rise, more middle-class Americans fall prey to this fiscal monstrosity. In a few years, it will ensnare almost a third of American taxpayers.
 In a world without paid preparers and TurboTax, taxpayers would face the tedious process of calculating their taxes twice -- once under the regular income tax and once using the cumbersome alternative minimum tax rules. But software does that calculation in the blink of an eye -- and for taxpayers who have to pay the tax, tell them how to adjust their withholding so that next year they won't even notice that they're paying it. 
 That's unfortunate, because the alternative minimum tax imposes a significant burden. Today, 3.4 million taxpayers will pay an average surcharge of $5,840, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. By 2010, almost 30 million taxpayers will pay the tax. 
 We have created a vicious cycle. Congress has made taxes increasingly complicated and burdensome over the years. To cope, taxpayers have sought help from tax preparers and computer software. But that consumer convenience has bred inertia, shielding bad policy from the wrath of taxpayers who bear the burden of it. This is not to say that we should go back to, say, the 1930's, when withholding didn't exist and taxpayers had to pay their bill in one fell swoop on tax day. But we may have put ourselves in a situation where no pain means no gain. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%) Taxation; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Joseph J Thorndike

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



303 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Yankees. Red Sox. Bedlam. What Else Is New?
Yankees right fielder Gary Sheffield after a fan swung his arm and appeared to hit him in the face as Sheffield was fielding a triple in the eighth at Fenway Park. Sheffield swung at the fan with the ball in his hand before throwing it in. Oh! The Red Sox beat the Yankees, 8-5. SPORTSFRIDAY, PAGE D1

Worries About Economy Push Markets to Lows
Major stock market gauges fell to their lowest levels of the year, as investors worried about slow growth. The Dow fell 125.18 points, the S.&P. 500 fell 11.74 points and the Nasdaq dropped 27.66 points. ''Almost overnight we have gone from worrying about inflation to worrying about economic growth,'' one strategist said. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Ephedra Ban Is Struck Down
A federal judge in Utah struck down a ban on the herbal supplement ephedra, an adrenaline-like stimulant linked to dozens of deaths. The ruling is limited to Utah. PAGE A12

Washington's New Game
With President Bush throwing the symbolic first pitch, and with tickets adorned with the Capitol, baseball returned to Washington after 34 years. The home team won. SPORTSFRIDAY

World Bank Chief to Mideast
James Wolfensohn, who is retiring as head of the World Bank, has been named by the Bush administration as special coordinator to the Middle East to assist Israel in its planned withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and parts of the West Bank. PAGE A8

Bankruptcy Bill Goes to Bush
The House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved a major overhaul of the bankruptcy laws, sending it to President Bush, who supports the measure. Consumer and civil rights groups had opposed the bill. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C5

Deal to Preserve Plaza Hotel
Union workers and the owner of the Plaza Hotel in New York reached a tentative compromise to retain its Grand Ballroom, Palm Court, Oak Bar and hundreds of rooms while allowing condominiums. PAGE B1

Gap Between Sexes in Science
Even as the number of women earning Ph.D.'s in science has increased substantially, the faculties of elite research universities remain overwhelmingly male. PAGE A15


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Charles Krupa/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); JUDGES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); HOTEL STAFF (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Baseball

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



304 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Foreign Cars' Popularity Dogs U.S. Automakers
The Big Two automobile giants offer plenty of explanations for their recent financial troubles, from soaring health care costs to rising gas prices and creeping interest rates. But consumers and industry experts say General Motors and Ford have swerved off course for a far more basic reason: not enough people like their cars.
 Despite free loans and rebates worth several thousand dollars, G.M. and Ford are losing sales to perennial competitors like Toyota and newer rivals like Hyundai. [Page A1.]

General Motors shares fell to a more than 12-year low as annual meeting with labor leaders yielded little hope that autoworkers might take on a greater share of health care costs. [C4.]

Bankruptcy Bill Goes to Bush
The House overwhelmingly approved a major overhaul of the nation's bankruptcy laws, completing Congressional action on the measure and sending it to President Bush for his signature. [C5.]

Atlantic Monthly to Leave Boston
The Atlantic Monthly, a pillar of Boston's intellectual and cultural life since its founding there in 1857, is being moved to Washington, as its owner seeks to control costs and centralize editorial operations. The magazine has been struggling financially, losing $4 million to $8 million a year, although its newsstand sales have increased. [C5.]

Judge Strikes Down Ephedra Ban
A federal judge struck down the Food and Drug Administration's ban on ephedra, the herbal stimulant. [A12.]

Nasdaq Said to Seek Instinet Deal
Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. is in talks to buy Instinet, an institutional trading network, people briefed on the talks said. [C6.]

Two Charged in Food-for-Oil Case
An American oil trader and a Korean lobbyist were charged in connection with the corruption surrounding the United Nations oil-for-food program. [A1.]

A Move to In-Store Prescriptions
Minnesota Blue Cross and Blue Shield said that it was encouraging its members to buy 90-day prescriptions for chronic problems at retail stores in the state, bucking a national trend toward mail order. [C5.]

Polo Issues Warning on Data
The retailer Polo Ralph Lauren said some of its customer credit card data may have been misappropriated. [C6.]

Nestle Allowed to Merge Top Titles
Nestle won by a small margin a shareholder vote that allowed it to merge the roles of chief executive and chairman. [C3.]

New Oil Rules in Venezuela
Venezuela said private oil companies with operating contracts would have to convert to joint ventures within six months. [C3.]

Judge Upholds Eli Lilly Patent
A federal judge upheld Eli Lilly's patent on Zyprexa, a treatment for schizophrenia that was among the top-selling drugs in the United States last year, with $2.4 billion in sales. Lilly had sued three generic drug companies to protect its patent. The ruling was issued after the close of regular trading. Lilly shares rose in after-hours trading. [C2.]

Sluggish Quarter for Publishers
The New York Times Company and Dow Jones & Company said that they were hurt by sluggish circulation and weakness in advertising by technology and financial firms during the first quarter. Advertising. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,278.75 down 125.18Nasdaq composite -- 1,946.71 down 27.6610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.31% down 0.06The euro -- $1.2827 down 0.0085The dollar -- 108.12 yen up 0.75Graph: ''TODAY'' shows industrial production figures since Sept. 2004.March figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Chart shows Eli Lilly share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); NEWSSTANDS (71%); MISAPPROPRIATION (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (70%); JUDGES (70%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (65%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (65%); CORRUPTION (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (82%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); IN-STORE GAGE MARKETING LLC (53%); NESTLE SA (52%); ELI LILLY & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (82%); GM (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (52%); LLY (SWX) (51%); LLY (NYSE) (51%); LEL (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (53%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



305 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours Montgomery, Ala.

BYLINE: By John T. Edge

 BODY:
WHEN the United Daughters of the Confederacy organized a Montgomery branch in 1896, its members named their chapter ''Cradle of the Confederacy.'' Approximately a century later, veterans of the civil rights movement began referring to Alabama, and its capital, Montgomery, in particular, as the ''birthplace of the civil rights movement.'' At a gooseneck bend in the Alabama River, this city of 200,000 , delivers on both claims. A recent spate of museum building and downtown redevelopment has begun to attract cultural tourists, but the transition has not wiped clean the contradictions. Drive south of downtown and, in the shadow of the Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway (Interstate 85), you will pass a sign for Taraland Learning Center. It's just a few blocks west of the intersection of Jefferson Davis and Rosa L. Parks Avenues. John T. Edge

Friday

4 p.m.
1 -- Learning About Hank
Hank Williams, who was born near Garland, Ala., is the city's favorite musical son. And the best place to get a bead on the man who, before his death at the age of 29 in 1953, wrote and recorded standards like ''I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive,'' is the storefront Hank Williams Museum (118 Commerce Street; 334-262-3600). View the baby blue Cadillac in which Williams died, a selection of toothpicks pulled from one of his suits, a lime-fringed black shirt custom-made by Nudie's Rodeo Tailors and the saddle from his horse, Hi-Life.

6 p.m.
2 -- Drinks at the Marina
Call for directions to Wil's Riverfront Grill at the Montgomery Marina (617 Shady Street, 334-269-4445), and you're still likely to get lost. But a short trek across a web of freight tracks and through the city's industrial areas brings you to the ideal ramshackle perch for a sunset beer. Below are the slips of sailboats and cabin cruisers. In the distance, barges ply the river.

8 p.m.
3 -- Dinner With the Wallaces
Oil portraits of Alabama governors line the Sahara Restaurant (511 East Edgemont Avenue, 334-262-1215), a retro-continental restaurant in the Old Cloverdale neighborhood. That's George Wallace in a red sport coat, hovering above Booth 2. His wife Lurleen, who was also governor, is alongside. Ribeyes and snapper are featured, but the best dish on the menu is the West Indies salad ($7.95), a mound of backfin crab and sweet onions, marinated in a vinegary sauce. Keep the evening going at Sous La Terre Downtown Underground (82 Commerce Street; 334-265-2069), a private club set, true to its moniker, in a windowless basement. It usually opens around 11 p.m. and springs to life after midnight when a jazz piano player, Henry Pugh, takes the stage. Guests must apply for membership to enter. Cover charge, for both guests and members, is about $5.

Saturday

9 a.m.
4 -- Curbside Eating
Open since 1927, the Montgomery Curb Market (1004 Madison Avenue; 334-263-6445) is an open-air shebang lighted by dangling bulbs and topped by a tin roof. In addition to produce, you'll find a heady array of baked goods. Since 1971, one vendor, Sherrell Smitherman of Verbena, Ala., has been selling buck-a-pop homemade sausage and cheese biscuits, fried peach pies and miniature sweet potato pies. It is open on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.

10 a.m.
5 -- Old South
Dexter Avenue is only six blocks long, but it's the spine of a route from the site of Jefferson Davis's inauguration to the bus stop where Rosa Parks boarded for her fateful journey. Start an Old South morning atop Goat Hill, at the Alabama State Capitol (600 Dexter Avenue, 334-242-3935), which is ringed by statuary and monuments that honor, among others, Dr. J. Marion Sims, who is called the father of modern gynecology. From the portico, where Davis took his oath as president of the Confederacy in 1861, George Wallace proclaimed in 1963, ''Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever.'' On the northern lawn rises a white marble memorial to the Confederacy. Detour one street south of Dexter Avenue and you stand in front of the First White House of the Confederacy (644 Washington Avenue, 334-242-1861), the modest -- and now musty -- Italianate two-story building that Davis and his family called home in the aftermath of secession. Year-round, the gift shop sells Christmas wreaths of cotton bolls. Admission is free.

1 p.m.
6 -- All American
Take a lunch break from history at Chris's Hotdogs (138 Dexter Avenue; 334-265-6850), where the timeless American snack comes mustard-slathered and drenched in chili sauce. Snag a stool at the worn linoleum counter where some locals say Hank Williams sat and scribbled lyrics. Hot dogs are $1.60 and fries set you back $1.35.

2 p.m.
7 -- New South
Advance to the 20th century, starting at the Civil Rights Memorial (400 Washington Avenue), designed by Maya Lin and commissioned by the Southern Poverty Law Center, the group that bankrupted the United Klans of America. Water emerges from the core of a circular granite table, washing over the names of martyrs of the civil rights movement in what might be interpreted as absolution of the South's sins. Back on Dexter Avenue, the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church (454 Dexter Avenue, 334-263-3970), where Martin Luther King Jr. rose to fame as leader of the Montgomery Improvement Association, stands out in red brick among the white masonry of state government buildings. Founded by former slaves in 1877, it now greets visitors with a documentary on its history, shown in a basement decorated with vacation Bible school posters, and a tour of the upstairs sanctuary, where docents say of Vernon Johns, King's predecessor: ''If he had led the movement, we'd all be dead; he wasn't one to turn the other cheek.'' The Rosa L. Parks Library and Museum (252 Montgomery Street, 334-241-8615), at the spot where Mrs. Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white passenger, is a mixture of artwork (a quilt depicts her arrest and fingerprinting) and multimedia displays, including a video recreation of the famous ride, projected so that you can view it through the windows of a restored 1955 Montgomery bus. A historical marker outside tells on one side about Mrs. Parks and on the other notes that Hank Williams once won a talent contest in the theater across the street.

7 p.m.
8 -- Pull the Trigger
A shotgun restaurant with a bar on the side and a trophy-size blue marlin arcing across the back wall, Jubilee Seafood (1057 Woodley Road; 334-262-6224) dishes grilled grouper ($20.95) and triggerfish ($18.95) with a choice of garnishes that includes a stellar lemon, caper and garlic sauce. The Key lime pie ($3.75) is a comely whorl of citrus and meringue.

Sunday

9 a.m.
9 -- Brimstone in the Pines
Drive about 12 miles north on I-65 and a few miles west on Highway 82 toward Prattville, and take a left on Autauga County Road 86, also called Indian Hills Road. At a bend in the two-lane blacktop, the Cross Garden erupts. Constructed as a testimony of Christian faith by W.C. Rice, who died in January 2004, this folk art environment, set amid gullies rife with castoff appliances, warns, by way of hundreds of painted crosses, ''Hell Is Hot, Hot, Hot!'' and proves the novelist Flannery O'Connor's observation that the South is a ''Christ-haunted'' landscape.

10:45 a.m.
10 -- Country-Fried Brunch
Wend back into town for an experience closer to the heavenly side. Martin's Restaurant (1796 Carter Hill Road, 334-265-1767) has been frying chickens and baking coconut meringue pies since 1940. It also does right by collard greens, candied yams and string beans. But the best is the simplest: corn muffins. Crisp and steaming with sweet corn flavor, they hit the oilcloth-clad table soon after you do. Plan to spend $10 or so, and plan to arrive soon after they open at 10:45, or you'll spend your Sunday morning in line with the crowds that flock from nearby churches.

THE BASICS
Visiting Montgomery
 Montgomery, 90 miles south of Birmingham and 160 miles southwest of Atlanta, is served by commuter airlines affiliated with Delta, Northwest and US Airways.
 Distinctive hotels are few. The courtyard-style Capitol Inn (205 North Goldthwaite Street, 334-265-3844), which serves as home for some members of the State Legislature during their annual sessions, has a swimming pool, free Wi-Fi access and 90 rooms starting at $53.50. The Embassy Suites (300 Tallapoosa Street, 334-269-5055), with 237 rooms starting at $99, is a stucco rectangle, but it has a great location, downtown, within sight of the Alabama River. 
 The best bed and breakfast is the almost-too-darn-quaint Red Bluff Cottage (551 Clay Street, 334-264-0056), set high atop the bluff. Its four rooms are $99 to $140.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Gary Tramontina for The New York Times)Map of Montgomery, Alabama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); CITIES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED DAUGHTERS OF THE CONFEDERACY (91%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) John T Edge

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (96%) ALABAMA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Montgomery (Ala); Alabama

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



306 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Bankruptcy Bill; Overhaul Now Awaits President's Signature

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved a major overhaul of the nation's bankruptcy laws on Thursday, completing Congressional action on the measure and sending it to President Bush.
 The 302-to-126 vote adopted the first significant revision of the bankruptcy laws in 27 years and is the culmination of years of intensive lobbying by the nation's largest banks, credit card companies and retailers, who have complained about what they say is a rising tide of abusive bankruptcy filings. 
 It is a victory for Mr. Bush, who supported the measure, and a setback for civil rights, labor and consumer organizations. They say the new law will be a huge giveaway to special interests at the expense of middle- and lower-income families. 
 Those groups say that abuses of the bankruptcy system are episodic, not systemic, and that the increase in filings over the last 30 years is a symptom of other societal problems, like the growing number of uninsured families facing high medical bills. They also link the increase to the sharp rise in promotion by credit card companies, banks and retailers of easy credit often accompanied by hidden and high fees. 
 Supporters of the legislation beat back a variety of attempts to force lenders to cut fees, expand disclosure and curtail what critics have called the abusive marketing tactics of banks and credit card companies. The supporters also fended off a series of amendments that would have curtailed what critics said were the abusive bankruptcy practices of corporations like Enron and WorldCom.
 In a statement, President Bush commended the vote. ''These common-sense reforms will make the system stronger and better so that more Americans -- especially lower-income Americans -- have greater access to credit,'' he said. 
 The Senate passed the same bill last month by a vote of 74 to 25.
 When it takes effect, six months after it is signed by the president, the new law will disqualify many families from taking advantage of the more generous provisions of the current bankruptcy code, which since 1898 has permitted bankruptcy filers to extinguish their debt for a ''fresh start.'' 
 In its place, the bill would impose a means test that would force many people to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 13, which requires a repayment plan. The means test would not be applied to debtors who earn less than the median income in their state. Those who earn more than that, and can pay at least $6,000 over five years, would have to seek protection under Chapter 13, rather than the more generous provisions of Chapter 7.
 The median income for a family of four in 2003 was $65,093, ranging from $45,867 in New Mexico to $82,561 in Massachusetts, according to the United States Census Bureau.
 The bill would also impose significant new costs on those seeking bankruptcy protection and give lenders and businesses new legal tools for recovering debts. It would make it more difficult for some people to try to shelter their assets through the purchase of expensive homes in states like Florida and Texas, which have homestead exemptions. It also imposes new barriers to filing a series of successive bankruptcy filings over the years.
 Supporters of the measure were giddy on Thursday. The National Retail Federation issued--and then tried to rescind--a statement it had inadvertently sent out by e-mail hours before completion of the measure, applauding Congress for approving the bill.
 ''It feels like we've been waiting as long to pass bankruptcy reform as Washington spent trying to get baseball back in town,'' said Steve Pfister, the senior vice president for government relations at the retail federation. ''The House hit one out of the park today. Now we're just waiting for President Bush to cross home plate by signing this bill into law.''
 Mr. Pfister said the legislation would lower costs for all consumers because they wind up making up the difference on the unpaid debts of those who abuse the system.
 But others disagreed.
 Opponents of the legislation said that the move by Congress was a harsh attack on the poorest and most needy and came just one day after the House adopted a measure of huge potential benefit to the wealthiest when it voted to eliminate the estate tax.
 ''The G.O.P. is practicing Robin Hood in reverse,'' said Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee. ''Last night they repealed the estate tax, a gift to the wealthiest individuals in our society. Today they pushed through the special-interest bankruptcy bill, punishing the very poorest members of society. This shows all the world that all of that talk about values in the last election was just that -- talk.''
 In fact, 73 Democrats joined the 229 Republicans in voting to approve the measure. It was opposed by 125 Democrats and Bernard Sanders of Vermont, the lone Independent in the House. 
 The legislation had been opposed by many bankruptcy law professors and judges who testified in recent months that it was unnecessary and would create more problems than it would solve. They said that it would impose new obstacles on many middle-income families seeking desperately needed protection from creditors, and that it would take far longer for those families to start over after suffering serious illnesses, unemployment and other calamities. 
 In a letter to Congress two months ago, 104 bankruptcy law professors predicted that ''the deepest hardship'' would ''be felt in the heartland,'' where the filing rates are highest --Utah, Tennessee, Georgia, Nevada, Indiana, Alabama, Arkansas, Ohio, Mississippi and Idaho. A study conducted by legal and medical specialists at Harvard University of 1,771 personal bankruptcy filers in five federal courts found that about half were forced into bankruptcy because of heavy medical costs. 





CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 15 about Congressional approval of a major overhaul of the nation's bankruptcy laws misidentified the state with the highest median income in 2003 for a family of four -- a level above which families cannot automatically take advantage of the more generous provisions of the bankruptcy law to erase their debts. (The error also occurred on March 9 in an article about Senate passage of the bill.) The state with the highest income was New Jersey ($87,412), not Massachusetts ($82,561). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



307 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Chief to Become a Special Mideast Envoy

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, moving to ease difficulties in the preparations for Israel's withdrawal from Gaza and parts of the West Bank, announced Thursday that James Wolfensohn, the retiring president of the World Bank, will become a special coordinator to help the Palestinian Authority run Gaza once the Israelis start leaving this summer.
 The administration's action comes amid growing concern in Europe, the United States and the Middle East that there has been a lack of Israeli-Palestinian coordination on the withdrawal, which was proposed by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in December 2003 and was approved by the Israeli Parliament last month.
 In particular, concerns have been expressed that facilities left behind by Israel that could be used by the Palestinians for economic development might be destroyed. The appointment of Mr. Wolfensohn, who has mobilized financial aid and worked with Israeli and Palestinian leaders for a decade at the World Bank, was made with the support of the European Union, the United Nations and Russia, the quartet of partners backing the Middle East peace plan known as the road map. 
 ''I would expect to be over there in next couple weeks to do preliminary work and to listen,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said in an interview after Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced his appointment. ''My first job is to listen to the Israelis and the Palestinians and try to assess the situation and see what the gaps are and how we can help.''
 Ms. Rice said that Mr. Wolfensohn would focus on coordinating ''nonmilitary aspects'' of the withdrawal, including economic reconstruction and the transfer of Israeli housing, public buildings, greenhouses and other property to Palestinian control.
 ''The responsibility for peace ultimately rests with the two parties, and Mr. Wolfensohn can only help them achieve what they are willing to achieve together,'' Ms. Rice said at the State Department.
 Last week, former Prime Minister Shimon Peres, speaking at an Aspen Institute conference in Washington, warned that without further preparations, efforts to salvage economic facilities in Gaza, like the greenhouses that could employ thousands of Palestinians, could end with their being destroyed. 
 The issue is further complicated by divisions within the Palestinian government. President Mahmoud Abbas has favored cooperating with Israel in the pullout while an increasingly powerful faction led by Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei has opposed such coordination as tacitly legitimizing the Israeli occupation.
 Mr. Peres said he favored the appointment of a respected economic coordinator for Gaza. The idea of asking Mr. Wolfensohn to enter into the Middle East morass had been discussed among European and Middle East diplomats, but the Bush administration initially resisted naming any special Middle East envoy.
 A European official said that Ms. Rice conferred Thursday morning in a joint telephone call with Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general; Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister; and Javier Solana, the external affairs commissioner for the European Union.
 Since Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel announced his plan for the withdrawal, the World Bank has taken the lead in trying to raise what bank officials say they hope will be a doubling of aid for the Palestinians in coming years.
 Mr. Wolfensohn is to begin his work in the Middle East formally on June 1, when Paul D. Wolfowitz, former deputy secretary of defense, takes over leadership of the World Bank. But Mr. Wolfensohn said he would start work right away in light of the fact that the withdrawal of Israeli forces and about 8,500 settlers is to start soon.
 Some in the Bush administration said they saw Mr. Wolfensohn's role as complementary to that of Lt. Gen. William E. Ward, deputy commanding general of the United States Army in Europe, who is in the Middle East to help the Palestinians improve their security forces.
 But others said that it was possible that a successful pullout would lead to demands for Mr. Wolfensohn to stay on and broker larger issues, such as the final boundaries of a Palestinian state.
 ''Knowing Jim's personality, I would be extremely surprised if he does not only take charge on this job but also try to enlarge it,'' said a European diplomat who is a friend of Mr. Wolfensohn. ''He is not the kind of person who wants to retire from the bank to his home in Jackson Hole.''
 Ms. Rice's announcement came after a three-day visit to the United States by Mr. Sharon, including a day with President Bush at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. Mr. Bush used the visit not only to endorse the Israeli pullout plan but also to appeal to Israel to exercise restraint on expanding settlements in the West Bank and the Jerusalem suburbs. 
 Administration officials said that an urgent topic of the Bush-Sharon talks was mounting concern about problems on the Palestinian side, especially in planning for the Israeli pullout. One American aide said that Palestinian officials have assured the United States that their plans are under way but that they are not prepared to provide details.
 Two top American officials -- Elliott Abrams and David Welch, directors of Middle East affairs at the White House and the State Department respectively -- will travel to the region next week to meet with Palestinian and Israeli leaders.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Wolfensohn will assist in Israel's withdrawal from Gaza. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%) Appointments and Executive Changes; United States International Relations; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) Palestinian Authority

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); SHIMON PERES (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) James D Wolfensohn; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) Israel; Gaza Strip

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



308 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Europe Urges Linking Lifting Of Chinese Arms Ban to Rights

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 14 

 BODY:
Europe seemed farther away than ever from lifting its 16-year-old arms embargo on China on Thursday, after statements by the German foreign minister and a vote in the European Parliament, both of which urged linking the embargo question to human rights.
 ''We want to reach a consensus, but this requires that everyone in the European Union votes in favor,'' Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, said in a parliamentary debate on the embargo question. ''For this, it is necessary for China also to move.'' 
 Mr. Fischer called on China to ''ease administrative detentions and above all move toward a peaceful settlement of the disputes across the Taiwan Strait.''
 The European Parliament, meeting in Strasbourg, France, voted 431 to 85, with 31 abstentions, in favor of a resolution urging the European Union not to lift the arms embargo.
 The resolution, which is nonbinding but reflective of European public opinion, was sharply critical of China for adopting legislation recently that would require China to go to war in the event of significant moves by Taiwan toward independence.
 The ''so-called anti-secesson law,'' the resolution said, ''aggravates the situation across the strait in an unjustified way.''
 Mr. Fischer's comments and the parliamentary resolution seemed consistent with indications that the European Commission in Brussels will demand specific human rights improvements by China in exchange for lifting the embargo.
 Diplomats at the European Union headquarters this week said that European foreign ministers were considering adopting a new position on the arms embargo that would require a major gesture on human rights from China, The International Herald Tribune reported.
 Similarly, Annalisa Giannella, an aide to the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, said following talks on the issue in Washington: ''Nobody has said we are going to lift our embargo for free. It would require an important concrete step to be taken by the Chinese.''
 The arms embargo, which was imposed after the violent suppression of student-led protesters in China in 1989, is viewed by European leaders like Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and President Jacques Chirac of France as an anachronism and an obstacle to expanding ties to China. The United States has opposed lifting the embargo, as have several European countries.
 The hope of those pressing for the embargo to be lifted was that the European Union would make a decision by June, when Britain, which is unenthusiastic about the French-German proposal, takes over the presidency of the union for a six-month term. It now seems highly unlikely that any such action will be taken by then.
 In the debate in the German Parliament, Mr. Schroder repeated his arguments in favor of lifting the embargo, a move he said would be a symbolic gesture and would have little practical effect on China's military capability.
 ''Lifting the weapons embargo is not designed to boost arms sales to China,'' he said. ''That's the very clear position of this government.''
 But in Germany all eyes were on Mr. Fischer, whose party, the Greens, have been outspokenly opposed to lifting the embargo, largely on human rights grounds. Mr. Fischer, the leading member of Mr. Schroder's junior coalition partner in the government, had been conspicuously silent on the question. 
 In his speech on Thursday, he seemed to take a middle position, not explicitly opposing a lifting of the embargo but calling for conditions that would, in practice, make it impossible to lift it any time soon.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder addressed the German Parliament. (Photo by Roberto Pfeil/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); ARMS EMBARGOES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); ARMS TRADE (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%) Arms Sales Abroad; Freedom and Human Rights; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%) European Union

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); JAVIER SOLANA (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (53%) Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Joschka (Min) Fischer; Richard Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); GERMANY (97%); FRANCE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%) China; Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



309 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Bush Disarms, Unilaterally

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
One of the things that I can't figure out about the Bush team is why an administration that is so focused on projecting U.S. military strength abroad has taken such little interest in America's economic competitiveness at home -- the underlying engine of our strength. At a time when the global economic playing field is being flattened -- enabling young Indians and Chinese to collaborate and compete with Americans more than ever before -- this administration is off on an ideological jag. It is trying to take apart the New Deal by privatizing Social Security, when what we really need most today is a New New Deal to make more Americans employable in 21st-century jobs.
 We have a Treasury secretary from the railroad industry. We have an administration that won't lift a finger to prevent the expensing of stock options, which is going to inhibit the ability of U.S. high-tech firms to attract talent -- at a time when China encourages its start-ups to grant stock options to young innovators. And we have movie theaters in certain U.S. towns afraid to show science films because they are based on evolution and not creationism. 
 The Bush team is proposing cutting the Pentagon's budget for basic science and technology research by 20 percent next year -- after President Bush and the Republican Congress already slashed the 2005 budget of the National Science Foundation by $100 million. 
 When the National Innovation Initiative, a bipartisan study by the country's leading technologists and industrialists about how to re-energize U.S. competitiveness, was unveiled last December, it was virtually ignored by the White House. Did you hear about it? Probably not, because the president preferred to focus all attention on privatizing Social Security.
 It's as if we have an industrial-age presidency, catering to a pre-industrial ideological base, in a post-industrial era.
 Thomas Bleha, a former U.S. Foreign Service officer in Japan, has a fascinating piece in the May-June issue of Foreign Affairs that begins like this: ''In the first three years of the Bush administration, the United States dropped from 4th to 13th place in global rankings of broadband Internet usage. Today, most U.S. homes can access only 'basic' broadband, among the slowest, most expensive and least reliable in the developed world, and the United States has fallen even further behind in mobile-phone-based Internet access. The lag is arguably the result of the Bush administration's failure to make a priority of developing these networks. In fact, the United States is the only industrialized state without an explicit national policy for promoting broadband.''
 Since it took over in 2001, the Bush team has made it clear that its priorities are tax cuts, missile defense and the war on terrorism -- not keeping the U.S. at the forefront of Internet innovation. In the administration's first three years, President Bush barely uttered the word ''broadband,'' Mr. Bleha notes, but when America ''dropped the Internet leadership baton, Japan picked it up. In 2001, Japan was well behind the United States in the broadband race. But thanks to top-level political leadership and ambitious goals, it soon began to move ahead.
 ''By May 2003, a higher percentage of homes in Japan than the United States had broadband. 
 ''Today, nearly all Japanese have access to 'high-speed' broadband, with an average connection time 16 times faster than in the United States -- for only about $22 a month. And that is to say nothing of Internet access through mobile phones, an area in which Japan is even further ahead of the United States. It is now clear that Japan and its neighbors will lead the charge in high-speed broadband over the next several years.''
 South Korea, which has the world's greatest percentage of broadband users, and urban China, which last year surpassed the U.S. in the number of broadband users, are keeping pace with Japan -- not us. By investing heavily in these new technologies, Mr. Bleha notes, these nations will be the first to reap their benefits -- from increased productivity to stronger platforms for technological innovation; new kinds of jobs, services and content; and rising standards of living.
 Economics is not like war. It can be win-win. But you need to be at a certain level to be able to claim your share of a global pie that is both expanding and becoming more complex. Tax cuts can't solve every problem. This administration -- which often seems more interested in indulging creationism than spurring creativity -- is doing a very poor job of preparing the country for that next level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); BROADBAND (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (68%); CREATIONISM (66%); TAX LAW (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



310 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Codey to Seek Ethics Panel On Stem Cells

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 14 

 BODY:
Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey is expected to propose that the state establish a new ethics panel to oversee New Jersey's stem cell research project, to be headed by Harold T. Shapiro, the president emeritus of Princeton.
 The governor, a strong proponent of stem cell research, is expected to announce the plan on Friday in a speech supporting the state's investment in a research center. 
 Mr. Codey has committed $150 million in state funds to build a stem cell research center in New Brunswick. Construction is to begin in August. The governor has also proposed a ballot question for November to determine whether the state should issue bonds to raise $230 million to finance grants for stem cell research.
 If the voters approve the bond proposal, New Jersey will rank among the top states in terms of financing for stem cell research, according to Governor Codey's staff. California, which has already approved $3 billion over the next 10 years, is first.
 The governor has urged voters to approve the money, even though the state is facing a difficult budget situation this year.
 ''Science and the potential benefits of this research, economically and on a human level, cannot be put on hold until New Jersey's financial stars align,'' Mr. Codey is expected to say, according to a draft of the governor's speech provided to The New York Times on Thursday. The governor is scheduled to deliver the speech at 1 p.m. on Friday at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton.
 Under the governor's plan, the ethics panel would review grant applications before financing was approved, according to a member of the governor's staff. The staff member said a separate panel would be established to review the scientific merit of grant proposals.
 Dr. Shapiro, who was president of Princeton from 1988 to 2001, remains a professor of economics and public affairs at the university, where he teaches a class in bioethics. He served as chairman of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission under President Bill Clinton. He was en route to Toronto yesterday and was unavailable for comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); ETHICS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BIOETHICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); BONDS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); BALLOTS (70%); BOND ISSUES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



311 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.N. Oil-for-Food ScandalResults in Two Indictments
An American oil trader and a Korean lobbyist were indicted in connection with the corruption surrounding the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, broadening the reach of the criminal inquiries into who profited from the $65 billion aid program carried out during the government of Saddam Hussein. A1

Tongsun Park stood at the center of an influence-peddling scandal that rocked official Washington nearly 30 years ago, and now the same South Korean businessman has emerged at the center of the oil-for-food scandal. A6

Renewed Bloodshed in Iraq
A string of attacks in Iraq left at least 19 Iraqis dead and 60 wounded in the second consecutive day of renewed bloodshed. The violence made clear that the challenges facing the new Iraqi government -- which could assume power as soon as Sunday -- have not subsided. A8

Investigators have discovered mass graves that are believed to contain the bodies of people killed by Saddam Hussein's government, including one estimated to hold 5,000 bodies. A8

Middle East Coordinator Named
The Bush administration announced that James Wolfensohn, the outgoing president of the World Bank, would become a special coordinator to help Israel carry out its handover of Gaza to the Palestinians. A8

Paris Hotel Fire Kills 13
At least 13 people were killed and dozens hurt in a fire that swept through a hotel in central Paris near the Galeries Lafayette luxury department store, fire officials said. A3

NATIONAL A12-17

Frist to Portray Democrats As 'Against People of Faith'
Senate majority leader Bill Frist has agreed to join a handful of prominent Christian conservatives in a telecast portraying Democrats as ''against people of faith'' for blocking President Bush's judicial nominees. A1

10,000 Fugitives Arrested
The Justice Department announced the arrests of more than 10,000 fugitives, many of them suspects in violent crimes like murder, rape and armed robbery, as part of a weeklong nationwide roundup. A13

Oregon Annuls Gay Marriages
Oregon's highest court ruled that 3,000 same-sex marriages performed a year ago in one county were unlawful, saying the county had overstepped its authority and that the marriage licenses it had issued were unconstitutional under Oregon law. A12

G.O.P. Criticism of Ethics Rules
Ten former Republican members of Congress joined in a letter to the House leadership to say they believe that House ethics rules were revised this year in an ''obvious action to protect Majority Leader Tom DeLay'' from investigation and that the changes needed to be reversed ''to restore public confidence in the People's House.'' A14

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Umbilical Cord Regulations
Congress's main medical advisory group called for a new federal organization to regulate and promote the use of umbilical cord blood, a natural byproduct of healthy childbirths, for medical treatment. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

New Real Estate SurgeIn Downtown Manhattan
The number of residents who live in Lower Manhattan has risen at least 50 percent since Sept. 11, real estate experts say, and schools, gyms and grocery stores are following them as part of a quiet residential revolution in the country's third largest commercial district. A1

New Deal for Plaza Owners
The new owners of the Plaza Hotel and union workers reached a tentative deal that will preserve the landmark building's most famous public spaces and retain more hotel rooms, as well as double the number of jobs the owners, Elad Properties, had originally wanted. B1

Giants' Deal Expands Site
The New York Giants will replace their aging stadium with an expanded $750 million complex in the New Jersey Meadowlands in a deal with New Jersey that will expand the number of luxury suites and new stores and facilities and triple the size of the Giants' current site. B1

WEEKEND E1-30;E31-40

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES C13

Andre Francois
The French cartoonist and illustrator who influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from tradional realism, he as 89. C13

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Big Trouble for the Big Two
General Motors and Ford offer plenty of explanations for their recent troubles, from soaring health care costs to rising gas prices. But consumers and industry experts say G.M. and Ford have swerved off course for a more basic reason: not enough people like their cars. A1

Official Quits S.E.C. Post
Stephen M. Cutler, the top law enforcement official for the Securities and Exchange Commission, said he would leave in a month. A successor has not yet been chosen, but Linda Thomsen, Mr. Cutler's current deputy, is the leading candidate. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Long live the estate tax; identity thieves' secret weapon; giving and taking away; a state on the verge of failure.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E28
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); ETHICS (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MURDER (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SCANDALS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); LOBBYING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); FIRES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); ROBBERY (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); MARRIAGE (65%); MARRIAGE LAW (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); APPEALS (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SA DES GALERIES LAFAYETTE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005



312 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Fall to Lowest Point Since Presidential Election
Stocks tumbled, extending a recent slump that has come on fears that economic growth is slowing. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 19.43 points, to 1,142.62. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 191.24 points, to 10,087.51, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 38.56 points, to 1,908.15.
 The selloff was ignited by weak earnings from I.B.M., and worsened throughout the day. It was the worst single day for the major gauges this year and capped the worst week since August. As stocks fell, the bond market rallied as investors there seemed to accept that if the economy was slowing, Federal Reserve policy makers will probably worry less about inflation and be less aggressive in pushing up interest rates. [Page A1.]

General Electric reported a 25 percent increase in first-quarter earnings, to $4.04 billion, led by its entertainment and health care units and strong growth in most of its businesses. Revenue rose 19 percent. [C2.]

Brake Problem Halts Acela Trains
Amtrak took its 20 Acela Express trains out of service because an inspector noticed cracks in the brakes, and a quick check found hundreds of similar flaws on other trains. [A1.]

Dynegy Settles Shareholder Suit
Dynegy has agreed to pay $468 million to settle a lawsuit contending that it misrepresented its financial results through a series of transactions undertaken in 2001. [C10.]

Another Success for Genentech
Shares of Genentech soared 18 percent, to $69.35, after its drug Avastin was shown to delay the worsening of breast cancer. This comes after Avastin was approved for colorectal cancer last year, and a late-stage clinical trial showed last month that it prolonged the lives of those with lung cancer. [C4.]

Citigroup Profit Increases 3.2%
First-quarter earnings at Citigroup rose 3.2 percent on higher growth in its retail banking business, helping to offset other businesses like asset management that were weaker. [C4.]

Raytheon Replaces Finance Chief
Raytheon named Biggs C. Porter, left, acting chief financial officer to replace Edward S. Pliner, who was put on administrative leave. Raytheon also offered to pay $12 million to settle an investigation into its accounting practices by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and said it had reached an agreement to pay $39 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit over a sale of assets in 2000. [C4.]

MG Rover to Layoff 5,000 Workers
Hopes to save the bankrupt MG Rover ran out. The company will be broken up and sold and 5,000 of its workers laid off. [C3.]

MetLife Cuts the Number of Layoffs
MetLife said it would scale back for at least a year job cuts in Hartford, related to its acquisition of Travelers Life and Annuity. The announcement prompted Connecticut's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, to drop his threat to fight the merger. [C4.]

Deal for British Electronics Retailer
The British electronics retailer Dixons Group said it had signed a deal for the right to buy Russia's biggest consumer electronics retailer, Eldorado, for $1.9 billion. [C3.]

Profits Decline at 2 Phone Makers
Samsung Electronics and Sony Ericsson reported steep tumbles in profit, accelerating a slide in technology stocks worldwide. Samsung's first-quarter profit sank 52 percent, to 1.50 trillion won ($1.47 billion). At Sony Ericsson, earnings plummeted 61 percent, to 32 million euros ($41.02 million). [C2.]

Earnings Flat at Knight and Tribune
Knight Ridder and Tribune reported flat first-quarter earnings. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,087.51 down 191.24Nasdaq composite -- 1,908.15 down 38.5610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% down 0.07The euro -- $1.2907 up 0.008The dollar -- 107.76 yen down 0.36Graph tracks daily closes of Standard & Poor's 500 since January. Yesterday: 1,142.62)(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); CANCER (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MERGERS (79%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TRAINS (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (71%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (71%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (71%); COLORECTAL CANCER (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (68%); BREAST CANCER (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); CLINICAL TRIALS (64%); LUNG CANCER (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ACCOUNTING (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); RETAIL BANKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%); DYNEGY INC (55%); RAYTHEON CO (52%); TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); DYN (NYSE) (55%); RTN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



313 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Bill Supporting Indian Casinos Is Held Back

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 15 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki withdrew pending legislation on Friday that would have allowed five Indian-run casinos to be built in the Catskills and settled tribal land claims. A spokesman said the settlements need to be renegotiated in light of a recent federal court ruling that would make it harder to win passage of Mr. Pataki's bill.
 The governor continued to support the state-brokered settlements with each of the five tribes, a spokesman said, as well as the plans in those settlements to build the five Las Vegas-style casinos in the Catskills, which Mr. Pataki has championed as an economic stimulus for the mountain resort region. 
 Mr. Pataki plans to reopen negotiations with the tribes shortly in hopes of revising the settlement pacts and clearing the path for the casinos.
 The undoing of the settlement legislation, which took years to negotiate, stemmed from the March 29 ruling by the Supreme Court, which held that the New York Oneida tribe could not purchase property to expand its tax-exempt holdings and assert Indian jurisdiction when that land had been outside its reservation for decades.
 The court decision, combined with longstanding concerns about the proposed casinos' effects on the environment and traffic, was expected to create a much more difficult political landscape for Mr. Pataki. While one of the five proposed casinos was expected to go forward because it is not affected by the court decision, the fate of the other four remained in doubt.
 A lobbyist who is monitoring the casino debate said on Friday that he had been told by the governor's office that Mr. Pataki would stop advancing the five-casino plan, and would seek legislative approval only for the one casino involving the Akwesasne Mohawks. This lobbyist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he conducts business with the governor's office, also said it was his understanding that the other four casinos, while not completely scuttled, would not be advanced soon.
 But Todd Alhart, a spokesman for the governor, said the lobbyist was in error.
 ''The governor remains committed to the settlement agreements, which would allow the four tribes to operate casinos in the Catskills,'' Mr. Alhart said.
 Mr. Pataki and state lawyers concluded on Friday that key provisions in the settlements would fail to win support from elected officials in the Catskills and legislators in Albany, Mr. Alhart said.
 The thorniest issues that must be renegotiated, he added, were the size of settlement land that would fall under Indian jurisdiction, and the collection of sales and excise taxes on goods and services sold on those lands.
 In recent weeks, lawmakers from some affected regions began complaining to Albany about the proposed settlements. Some were expected to voice criticism at planned legislative hearings on the pacts, which could have been embarrassing for the governor.
 These local officials believed their influence with the tribes had been strengthened by the Supreme Court ruling, and did not want to cede more land and taxing authority than necessary.
 ''In spite of the governor's good-faith efforts to obtain legislative approval of these settlement agreement, it's clear now that there are certain provisions the affected government and the Legislature will not support,'' Mr. Alhart said.
 Facing the various land claims, Mr. Pataki's political strategy had been to reach individual settlements with the five tribes and then obtain state approval for all of them in a single bill, which would conceivably gather momentum and pass intact. Both the State Legislature and Congress are required to sign off on the land settlements.
 Because of the Supreme Court decision, however, the governor's office has felt obliged to alter course slightly. Within days Mr. Pataki plans to submit a new bill to carry out the settlement with the Akwesasne Mohawks, a tribe whose reservation is on the border of New York and Canada. State lawyers believe the Supreme Court ruling does not create stumbling blocks for that pact.
 As for the other four agreements, Mr. Alhart said any timetable for new legislation depended on how soon all parties could agree on ''revised settlement terms.''
 After the Sept. 11 attacks, state officials and lawmakers agreed to permit up to three casinos in Sullivan and Ulster Counties in hopes of drawing New York City gamblers to the struggling Catskills resort region.
 Yet the casinos were never built. Late last year, however, the plan was given new life when the state reached tentative settlements over land claims with five tribes -- one in Oklahoma, two in Wisconsin, one landless tribe in New York State and the Akwesasne Mohawks. All five traced ancestry back to New York, and each would run a casino to settle centuries-old claims that they had been deprived of their land.
 Supporters of the casinos said they were confident that a compromise would be reached ending in casino approval.
 ''We believe the governor wants to go back to the table and work with these tribes to settle the land claims and stimulate the economy of the Catskills,'' said Josh Sommers, a spokesman for the Catskill Casino Coalition, a gambling organization. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); RESORTS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); EXCISE TAX (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



314 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Nancy Drew and the Hidden Loft; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Tracking Illegal Apartments in Industrial Zones

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
She wears hoop earrings and dark spindly eyeglass frames in the latest fashion. She carries a backpack and a digital camera. A young-looking 33 with sandy blond curls, she is a fixture on the streets of East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The hipsters never suspect a thing.
 She is Dana Ruppert, urban secret agent of sorts, on a mission to document every illegally converted loft apartment in a 600-acre swath of the neighborhood. 
 ''You have to look up, because it's usually the upper floors that have been converted,'' Ms. Ruppert said on a recent skulk through the neighborhood, ''and you look for plants and curtains.''
 All over Brooklyn, there is a clamor for housing, and the pressure is strongest closest to the water, in places given for generations to factories and warehouses. The City Council is considering rezoning more than 180 blocks of Williamsburg and Greenpoint for housing, and neighborhood groups have requested something similar in the area known as Dumbo, for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass.
 The organization that employs Ms. Ruppert, the New York Industrial Retention Network, is a nonprofit group that seeks to strengthen the city's manufacturing sector. It draws a line at the East Williamsburg In-Place Industrial Park, one of eight areas the city reserved for manufacturing in the 1980's. 
 Zoning laws prohibit residential uses in most of the park, bordered roughly by Bushwick and Morgan Avenues to the west, Flushing Avenue to the south, the English Kills to the east and Newtown Creek to the north.
 Despite the restrictions, some building owners are marketing loft space for residences as the potential for profits starts to outweigh the risk of fines.
 To Ms. Ruppert's boss, Adam Friedman, the loss of industrial space to loft apartments is a matter of economic justice.
 ''New York City has an extraordinarily diverse population, so we try to maintain a diverse economy,'' said Mr. Friedman, the executive director of the industrial retention group. ''Here's an area that everyone agrees should be preserved for industrial uses: it's an industrial park.''
 Inside the park on Varet Street, Martin Greenfield Clothiers employs about 150 tailors in a building that has been used for garment-making since the 19th century. As evidence of the loss of blue-collar jobs, Tod Greenfield, one of the owners, cites the marvelously obscure statistic that Greenfield is the last union hand-tailored men's clothing factory with more than 100 employees in New York City, where there were more than 3,000 businesses fitting that description as recently as the 1960's.
 In the past decade, the L train has served as a sort of hip Oregon Trail, bringing waves of artists, followed by graphic designers and finally investment bankers and lawyers, eastward from Union Square. Mr. Greenfield said that this was making nearby residential neighborhoods unaffordable for his workers, who make an average of $11 an hour and are likely to have families to support.
 Some blue-collar workers are able to live near their jobs only by virtue of rent control. Laura Vera, 55, a tailor at Greenfield who said she had lived in a $550-per-month apartment in Bushwick for 30 years, said both her job and her home had become irreplaceable.
 ''This is the only shop around here,'' she said. ''Everything is condos, apartments. And for people working, it's hard to get an apartment.''
 The industrial retention group has documented more than two dozen illegally converted buildings, resulting in a loss of 500,000 square feet of industrial space, according to Ms. Ruppert and Jenifer Roth, the group's director of research. The industrial park, according to the retention group, has about 450 companies, employing 10,000 people. 
 To a young worker with an office job in Manhattan, there are few obvious signs that the area is an industrial park where residences are outlawed. There is no gate, no barbed wire and no prominent banner, only a subtle shift in landscape. At intervals, railroad tracks cross the streets, and trucks clang by. The squat brick buildings have signs that say Amity Textiles or New York Pretzel. A cafe called Potion has opened on McKibbin Street, charging a dollar for a small cup of coffee labeled Organic/Fair Trade. Magazine racks hold copies of National Review and 11211 Magazine, a free magazine about Williamsburg. A bulletin board advertises a spoken word performance and something called Where the Freeks Are.
 Len Moroz, 33, a part owner of the cafe (which is legal under the zoning), said that almost all his customers came from the converted loft building across the street.
 ''It's the bohemian crowd,'' Mr. Moroz said, ''rock musicians, writers.''
 Pete Molton, 23, who described himself as a woodworker, lives in an illegal loft at 255 McKibbin Street, opposite Potion. He was oblivious to the zoning, but had noticed that there was something vaguely industrial about his surroundings.
 ''Garbage day is a little weird,'' Mr. Molton said. ''They come late at night.''
 Though many of the new residents seem genuinely unaware that the lofts are illegal, the shift is self-perpetuating. Building owners have begun to cite the changing streetscape to apply for zoning variances, according to Mr. Friedman, of the industrial retention group.
 ''From a political standpoint, nobody wants to be in the business of kicking out tenants,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''Part of the city's challenge is, how do you come up with a solution that protects the tenants and penalizes the property owners?''
 For now, the group's strategy is to press the city to fine building owners. In January, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg issued a 33-page industrial policy statement with measures like increasing fines for destruction of manufacturing space and promoting the 311 hotline number for reporting illegal conversions.
 And so Ms. Ruppert continues her work, mapping the residential tenants' progress through the park, where there is little effort to disguise the conversion of some buildings. At 250 Moore Street, a sign above a glass door says Bush Gardens. Cameras are mounted on the white brick walls, and a block of mailboxes can be seen inside. A note on a bulletin board complains of stolen packages. There is also a chandelier.
 As she walked the streets, Ms. Ruppert passed windows with pastel curtains and others with designer lamps and stereo speakers. A woman walked out of 222 Varet Street with a dog on a leash. On the second floor of 255 McKibbin Street, someone held a cigarette out a window. Ms. Ruppert said she had toured that building, posing as a prospective tenant. Her guide was a real estate broker.
 ''I asked him if it was O.K. to live here, sort of framed it that way,'' Ms. Ruppert said. ''He didn't understand the question.''
 Still, Ms. Ruppert came away impressed. She said: ''They have very nice laundry rooms.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There are clues that a building may contain illegal residences, like the tenant listing at 9 White Street, left, or bags of groceries being carried into 265 McKibbin Street.
When curtains, like these on Varet Street, are on upper floors in the East Williamsburg industrial park, alarms go off for Dana Ruppert, who seeks out illegal residences. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Dana Ruppert, left, and Jenifer Roth work for the New York Industrial Retention Network, which works to bolster the manufacturing sector. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Map of Brooklyn highlighting East Williamsburg In-Place Industrial Park. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); APPAREL MFG (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); CITIES (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



315 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: F.D.R.'s 'Gorgeous Hussy'

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
My family, alas, must bear the cross of inventing modern lobbying.
 It was all the fault of my cousin, Peggy, an irresistible, dimpled Grace Kelly type who ensorcelled Tommy Corcoran -- against the wishes of Franklin Roosevelt.
 Tommy was the brainy young lawyer for F.D.R. who constructed much of the early New Deal with Ben Cohen and sold to Congress the economic safeguards that protected the little guy. The two became, as David McKean wrote in ''Peddling Influence: Thomas 'Tommy the Cork' Corcoran and the Birth of Modern Lobbying,'' ''perhaps the best legal team in the annals of American government.'' 
 Peggy Dowd and Tommy met in 1933 when she was sent to his office at the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. ''You're Irish,'' her boss told 22-year-old Peggy. ''Maybe you can handle him.'' He talked with a cigar in his mouth and barked orders, and went through secretaries quickly.
 In a scene straight out of a Jean Arthur movie, Peggy told her new boss: ''Take the cigar out of your mouth or I won't take dictation from you.''
 Tommy, shocked, obliged. 
 She became the New Deal's amanuensis. Everyone was charmed by Peggy, who was bright and generous, except F.D.R. and Felix Frankfurter, who thought their protege should not marry the daughter of an immigrant Washington mailman. Peggy told my mom that F.D.R. teasingly referred to her as ''our 'Gorgeous Hussy,''' the title of a 1936 Joan Crawford movie about a Washington innkeeper's daughter who had a notorious friendship with Andrew Jackson.
 Tommy asked Peggy to marry him, and arranged a meeting to introduce his bride to the president. Mr. McKean describes the awful scene that came next: ''Peggy bought a new dress and hat for the occasion, and she and Tommy arrived at the White House family quarters at the appointed time. But after they'd waited for well over two hours, Harry Hopkins came into the reception area to tell them that the president could not, in fact, see them. Corcoran was furious and later claimed that the incident contributed to his decision to leave public service.''
 Along with other superconnected superlawyers, like Abe Fortas and Clark Clifford, Tommy elevated lobbying to a lucrative gentleman's profession. Mr. McKean writes that the raffish Tommy might talk in code on the phone -- I heard a few of his cryptic lobbying calls when I worked summers at his law firm -- but never did anything illegal: ''If occasionally he skirted the edge of propriety, he made sure to leave no footprints.''
 When he was investigated -- and cleared -- by Congress in 1960 on suspicion of improperly lobbying the Federal Power Commission chairman for a rate increase on behalf of the Tennessee Gas Company, Tommy was unapologetic: ''I walked down the corridors of the Commission, and I have always walked down the corridors of the Commission -- in broad daylight with a brass band behind me.''
 It's a far cry from today's lobbying. Sleazoid lawmakers like Tom DeLay gulp down the graft from sleazoid lobbyists like Jack Abramoff, who took Mr. DeLay, the House majority leader, to play golf in Scotland in 2000 as part of a $70,000 trip with Mr. DeLay's wife and staff, and for a six-day ''fact finding'' trip to Moscow in 1997. 
 If there are any ethics questions, Republicans helpfully gut the House Ethics Committee, while DeLay & Co. try to gut the New Deal.
 Before he became a $750-an-hour superlobbyist accused of defrauding Indian tribes of tens of millions of their gambling dollars and pitting them against one another to pay for lavish trips for congressmen, ''Casino Jack'' had never been a White House wise man or spent years in public service. He produced B movies like ''Red Scorpion'' and ''Red Scorpion 2.'' 
 Unlike the cultivated Tommy, who was a bit of a Robin Hood, taking care of lots of people who were down and out, Mr. Abramoff leeched off a group that's always gotten gypped and then wrote ugly e-mail deriding his Indian clients as ''monkeys'' and ''idiots.''
 Another lobbyist, Tongsun Park, a South Korean at the center of a Congressional bribery scandal in the 1970's known as Koreagate, blasted back from the past this week. Mr. Park has been charged with secretly collecting at least $2 million from Saddam Hussein for clandestine help setting up the corrupt U.N. oil-for-food program and carting away bags of cash from Iraq's diplomats in New York, partly to bribe a U.N. official. 
 Not exactly broad daylight with a brass band. More like midnight in the sewer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



316 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Says Earnings Jumped 25% in the First Quarter

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The General Electric Company said yesterday that earnings increased 25 percent in the first quarter, led by its entertainment and health care units and strong growth across most of its businesses.
 Net income grew to $4.04 billion, or 38 cents a share, for the quarter from $3.24 billion, or 32 cents, a year ago. Revenue jumped 19 percent, to $39.8 billion, from $33.4 billion. Nine of G.E.'s 11 businesses reported double-digit growth in the first quarter. 
 Earnings were in line with a revised forecast that G.E. issued late last month, but revenue was stronger than Wall Street expected. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected 37 cents a share on sales of $38.02 billion in the latest quarter.
 ''It's a great-looking quarter, particularly on sales,'' said Donald MacDougall, who follows the company for Banc of America Securities. 
 For the year, G.E. said it now expected earnings to be $1.78 to $1.83 a share; its previous forecast said they could be as low as $1.76. 
 Many of the gains in the quarter reflected general strength in the economy. G.E.'s main plastics business, for example, is operating close enough to capacity to turn down orders for lower-margin products and was able to raise prices in the quarter for the fifth time in the last year. The price increases helped overcome rising costs for raw materials like benzene.
 Analysts said that G.E.'s results provided a counterweight to fears about the economy that stemmed from the disappointing results disclosed by I.B.M. after the market closed on Thursday. G.E.'s shares rose 25 cents yesterday, to close at $35.75 on a day that Dow fell 191.24 points.
 ''Our businesses and our end-use markets are seeing continued strong growth,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive, in a statement issued from the company's headquarters in Fairfield, Conn. 
 The company's health care division increased sales of body-scanning equipment and other devices by 33 percent, to $3.32 billion, while profit jumped 21 percent, to $409 million. 
 NBC Universal, which is among the company's more volatile businesses and includes the entertainment and theme park operations, had revenue of $3.60 billion, more than double the $1.58 billion from the period a year ago. Profit for the group jumped 80 percent, to $709 million. Revenue from overseas sales rose 33 percent in the quarter, led by China, where sales rose 55 percent. 
 In response to questions from analysts on a conference call, Mr. Immelt said that G.E. had seen some slowing in the European economy starting in the fourth quarter of last year. G.E. expects Europe to grow at half the rate of the United States for the rest of the year.
 The advanced materials unit, which includes plastics, ceramics and optical materials, had sales of $2.23 billion, up 18 percent from a year ago, and a profit of $275 million, up 61 percent. 
 The infrastructure group, which includes water and security businesses and is an area where G.E. has been expanding through acquisitions, reported a 24 percent increase in sales, to $965 million, and a 30 percent surge in profit, to $147 million. 
 G.E.'s commercial and consumer finance operations also did well, but its insurance revenue rose just 6 percent, to $6.33 billion. Insurance profit declined 7 percent, to $383 million. 
 The insurance decline reflected G.E.'s declining share of Genworth Financial, a life and mortgage insurance business it is in the process of shedding. G.E.'s secondary offering of Genworth shares in March, which generated $2.6 billion and left it with 51.7 percent of Genworth, also contributed roughly a penny to yesterday's earnings.
 The only other G.E. unit that reported lower profit was the highly cyclical energy business, which makes generating systems and related equipment. Although sales rose 16 percent, to $4.50 billion, profit fell 8 percent, to $597 million. 
 Keith S. Sherin, G.E.'s chief financial officer, forecast that GE Energy, which sells equipment and services, would report a profit gain in the current quarter for the first time in 10 quarters.
 Organic growth in G.E.'s highly diverse industrial divisions, which reflects performance stripped of acquisitions and divestitures, currency fluctuations and the results in G.E.'s financial businesses, rose 10 percent. G.E.'s goal for organic growth, for instance, had been 8 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CHEMICALS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); BENZENE (65%); PLASTICS (51%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



317 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; COMING OF AGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: For 3 Girls and Their Nation, Sober Parallels 

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: HOHENWARTHE, Germany 

 BODY:
ANNA RAUWALD, Marleen Merk and Sarah Liepert, 15-year-old girls from this small town in the former East Germany, are almost exactly the same age as the newly reunited Germany. 
 Born just after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, and a few months before Communist East Germany formally ceased to exist, they are the first generation to grow up in the former East without any experience of either the Nazi or the Communist past. 
 Theirs is a world of fewer borders and greater freedom than the world of their parents and grandparents, though they seem to have only a vague notion of it, not thinking much, at their ages, about their own moment in history. 
 In many ways, their lives are quite similar to those of middle-class young people from the former West Germany or even the United States. They watch ''Friends,'' ''Sex and the City'' and ''The Simpsons,'' dubbed in German. They have cellphones, they Google, they have traveled -- Anna as far as China, and Sarah several times to America. 
 But even at this early age, the girls have inherited the rituals and habits of mind, in altered form, of the East Germany that was dying as they were born. They look at the future from a point midway between the high expectations of a united Germany and the sense of limitation imposed by reunification's failures, especially persistent high unemployment. 
 They talk in modest terms of their ambitions and expectations, as if coming of age in the former East Germany today is, above all, to come to terms with economic reality. 
 Asked about the things most important to her once she finished school, Anna had a ready reply: ''A job, which seems complicated to get.'' She said she wanted to be a journalist; her father is a regional editor for the local daily, Volksstimme. 
 ''Not to be alone,'' Anna continued with her list. ''To have friends.''
 WHAT would she like her life to look like when she turned 25? ''I hope I'll have graduated from university,'' Anna said. ''I don't want to be a lazy student,'' one who spends years, as many German students do, hanging around the university, where tuition is covered by the state. 
 That was nearly a year ago, when Anna, Marleen and Sarah were first interviewed. They had all just finished Jugendweihe, a secular version of a religious confirmation, marking the transition to early adulthood. It is, in other words, for adolescent atheists. ''Most of the kids are atheists, yeah,'' Marleen said. 
 There are many young atheists in the former West Germany as well; Germany, like other European countries, is far more secular than the United States. Still, only the former East still has the Jugendweihe, though its roots go back much deeper than the time of East Germany, where it became part of the political indoctrination.
 JUGENDWEIHE today is a variation on the 19th-century German tradition of secular humanism, and it is valued by nonreligious parents as a kind of educational supplement. Parents pay about $100 to the Jugendweihe Association, which organizes a host of events, like weekend trips to London or Paris. There are lectures on safe sex, pregnancy and love, and, for girls, visits to a gynecologist. There are fashion shows, counseling on hair-styling, nutrition, even body piercing. 
 Then there is the actual ceremony, which, for Marleen, Anna and Sarah, came on a blustery Saturday in the airy auditorium of the Town Hall in Burg bei Magdeburg. While their parents and grandparents looked on, the girls were called to the stage, given a yellow rose and a handshake, and a copy of a Jugendweihe book, a sort of single-volume encyclopedia. 
 ''I was moved,'' Anna said, ''when they said that childhood was over, and I'd have to take more responsibility for my life.'' 
 Still, they were very much girls then. A year later, all three seemed a bit less shy, moderately more assertive, as if responsibility in fact is slowly taking hold. Anna said she was giving more shape to her interest in becoming a journalist, writing for the youth supplement of Volksstimme. All the girls talked about conflicts with teachers, which seemed to them to be an assertion of their own independence. 
 But the economic picture in Germany has only worsened, meanwhile, and the girls' modest expectations and concerns about security have not disappeared. 
 Marleen, asked a year ago what was important to her, said she really did not know. Now she has decided to look for a job, first apprenticing as a clerk or secretary, then hoping to be hired permanently. Why not go to college and get a better job?
 ''You go to the university and you still can't find a job,'' she replied. ''I know people who just finished eighth grade and got jobs, and others who got university diplomas and didn't.'' 
 That is so even though their little village, a sort of bedroom community of neat stucco homes, is in what might be called the better-off part of the former East Germany -- nearer the prosperous former West, rather than the still depressed parts toward Poland. 
 Even their small town has had more than its share of history, of material for self-awareness. Even if the girls are still too young to fully appreciate Germany's continuing reckoning with its past, they are aware of something special, different in their identity. 
 ''We see the way our parents and grandparents talk about the past,'' Anna said. ''Our grandparents speak about the war, and our parents speak about the East German regime.
 ''But maybe the most interesting thing is that they don't really want to talk about it. They want to see that chapter closed.''
 Even so, all the girls added that if anybody came home with wrong ideas about Hitler, showing some sympathy for him, for example, their grandparents would quickly set them straight. ''If you would even start thinking like that,'' Marleen said, ''your grandparents would tell you right away that it was the wrong approach.'' 
 The older generation in Hohenwarthe represents a sort of ''old country'' to Anna, Marleen and Sarah, even if it is in the same place as the new one, right here in small-town Germany. While an American visitor might expect them to be grateful for being the first generation to grow up in a democratic, reunified country, they do not necessarily see things that way.
 The girls do not believe they are better off than their parents, who, as one put it, ''had a pretty good time.'' That view reflects a broad opinion in the former East, with its continuing economic problems: that in many ways, the old days may have been less free, but they were more secure.
 ''We have more political freedom, but you can't compare the Nazi and the Communist times,'' Sarah said. ''There wasn't such bad oppression in East Germany that people were killed or gassed or annihilated.'' 
 On the other hand, in the matter of hard contemporary reality, they know of experiences like that of Anna's older brother, Stefan, who spent nearly two years looking for a job after college.
 Uncertainty provides its own challenge, and it is a lot of work to navigate. With 35 hours of school a week, the time it takes to get there, late afternoons at the sports center and plenty of homework, their lives are so structured, they do not feel exactly free. 
 ''There's a lot to learn,'' Anna said. ''It's quite exhausting.''

This article is part of a series examining the challenges and aspirations of young people in countries around the world.


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Sarah Liepert, Anna Rauwald and Marleen Merk, whose adolescent insecurities mirror those of the reunified Germany. (Photo by Dietmar Gust for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); RELIGION (66%); WRITERS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



318 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Legal Reform Turns a Steward Into an Activist

BYLINE: By KAREN DONOVAN

 BODY:
After J.P. Morgan agreed to pay a $2 billion settlement in the WorldCom case last month, the New York state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, had this to say to a scrum of reporters waiting outside the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan: ''I'm trying to sound like a lawyer; I'm not a lawyer.'' 
 To some, that is precisely the problem. 
 Mr. Hevesi is the sole fiduciary for the $120 billion New York State Common Retirement Fund. As steward of the fund, he has been acting a lot like the sort of activist lawyer that Congress tried to put out of business in 1995 when it passed the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. 
 But Mr. Hevesi is rewriting the legal playbook. Not only did he wrest from WorldCom's investment banks a $6 billion settlement for investors -- a record amount -- he also forced the company's former directors to pay $24.5 million out of their own pockets. Until now, directors expected their liability to be covered entirely by insurance. At the same time, Mr. Hevesi has ruffled the legal community by seeking to reduce the fees that lawyers charge, leaving investors with a higher percentage of the total settlement. 
 Mr. Hevesi is not the only politician taking advantage of the Public Securities Litigation Reform Act, but he is certainly one of the most prominent. The law, passed over the veto of President Bill Clinton, gave institutional investors like public pension funds the lead role in investor class-action suits. High-technology companies, the lobby group that pressed hardest for the law, had complained about frivolous lawsuits and abusive tactics practiced by the law firms that specialize in such suits. 
 Advocates of change in Congress were also looking to curb lawyer-driven litigation. Previously, the law firm that was first to file a class-action suit controlled the case, and with it millions of dollars in legal fees taken as a percentage of the settlement amount. Firms raced to the courthouse with lawsuits on behalf of investors who owned a tiny number of shares, seeking to represent the entire class of shareholders harmed. The law firms -- chief among them Milberg, Weiss, Bershad, Hynes & Lerach, based in New York -- lined up clients, some of whose names appeared repeatedly on lawsuits. 
 To address that concern, the law's authors, including Robert J. Giuffra Jr., chief counsel of the Senate Banking Committee, reasoned that because institutional investors suffered the greatest losses from corporate wrongdoing, they had the greatest interest in the outcome of securities cases, and therefore should have the lead role. Big investors would not be easily used by hungry lawyers, so the thinking went, and would not bother suing unless a case had merit.
 Corporate lobbyists did not focus on this part of the law. There was no Senate debate about the idea of requiring institutional lead plaintiffs, says Mr. Giuffra, now a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell of New York. ''It happened so quickly.'' 
 The result is that the law has succeeded in displacing some -- but not all -- ambitious lawyers as the force behind class-action suits. In their place, however, it has encouraged even more ambitious elected officials to step forward as lead plaintiffs.
 No elected official seems more emboldened than Mr. Hevesi, who won statewide office in 2002. He was the lead plaintiff in a case against Raytheon that was settled for $410 million last year. He also has the lead role in a pending case against Bayer, accusing the German pharmaceutical giant of misleading investors by making false statements about the cholesterol drug Baycol. But the most significant case is his effort to recover money lost in the $11 billion fraud at WorldCom, the largest corporate accounting scandal in United States history.
 Philip Angelides, the treasurer of California, has also become a vocal advocate for shareholder issues as a board member of the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, the nation's largest public pension fund with more than $160 billion in assets. While Calpers has been less active than the New York fund, it is a co-lead plaintiff in a suit that accuses the New York Stock Exchange and its seven specialist trading firms of shortchanging investors by at least $150 million by intervening in trades where no specialist was needed. On Tuesday, without admitting or denying guilt, the New York exchange settled Securities and Exchange Commission charges that it failed to supervise floor specialists. 
 Still, plaintiffs' law firms that once rushed to the court have adapted to the new landscape. They quickly send out e-mail messages to pension funds when companies announce bad news. Calpers has hired Lerach, Coughlin, Stoia & Robbins, based in San Diego, for the New York exchange case. Its senior partner, William S. Lerach, was one of the lawyers Congress was hoping to put out of business. Mr. Lerach also represents the lead plaintiff, the University of California Regents, in the pending Enron class-action case.
 Last year, Mr. Lerach ended his 27-year relationship with Milberg, Weiss. Now renamed Milberg, Weiss, Bershad & Shulman, the law firm was the victor on April 6 when a federal judge in New Jersey denied Mr. Hevesi's bid to take over the lead plaintiff role in a class action alleging that Merck failed to disclose the risks of the painkiller Vioxx. That leaves the New York fund, which lost $171 million on Merck stock, on the sidelines in the blockbuster case. The New York fund, however, has been lead plaintiff in four of the five largest investor class actions since 1996. Several of them were begun by Mr. Hevesi's predecessor, H. Carl McCall. In January, Mr. Hevesi announced a $960 million settlement against McKesson, the nation's largest drug distributor, based on accounting fraud at HBOC, a health care software company that it bought in 1999 -- a case he inherited from Mr. McCall.
 In fact, the New York fund was already lead plaintiff in the WorldCom case when Mr. Hevesi came to office. But Mr. Hevesi drew from his previous experience in a class-action suit against Cendant. Mr. Hevesi, as the comptroller for New York City, was one of several lead plaintiffs, along with funds from California and New York State. The case was settled for $3.2 billion, then the largest in an investor class action.
 But the New York City pension funds broke with the other lead plaintiffs over $262 million in fees that two law firms, Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann of New York and Barrack Rodos & Bacine of Philadelphia, were set to collect. ''It was excessive,'' Mr. Hevesi said recently of the fee. 
 The two firms fought to keep the $262 million, which was set by the presiding judge. Mr. Hevesi's office, working with the city's corporation counsel, won a reversal of the fee on appeal, facing off against Arthur R. Miller, a respected Harvard Law School professor, who argued on behalf of the law firms. After the United States Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal, the firms agreed to a reduced fee of $55 million.
 When Mr. Hevesi became the state comptroller, Bernstein Litowitz and Barrack Rodos, the very firms whose fees Mr. Hevesi had challenged in the Cendant case, had already been chosen as lead counsel by Mr. McCall for the WorldCom case. But Mr. Hevesi used his leverage to cap the lawyers' fees at 5.5 percent. Even so, the firms are headed toward a payday of more than $300 million, unless Mr. Hevesi exercises an option in his retainer to lower the fees before seeking court approval for them from Judge Denise L. Cote of Federal District Court.
 Lawyers' fees as a percentage of settlements tend to fall when a public pension fund serves as lead plaintiff. Lawyers' fees were 26 percent, on average, when pension funds were lead plaintiffs, instead of the usual 30 percent, according to a study of settlements from 2002 to 2004 by NERA Economic Consulting. The litigation reform law is also raising conflict-of-interest concerns now that elected officials are hiring law firms, some of which have contributed to their political campaigns, to oversee pension fund lawsuits. 
 Arthur N. Abbey, a senior partner of Abbey Gardy and the lawyer representing Mr. Hevesi in the Merck case, contributed $44,000 to Mr. Hevesi's 2002 election campaign, and his wife, Diane, contributed $30,000, according to records from the New York State Board of Elections. Mr. Abbey did not return calls seeking comment. 
 In fact, as the WorldCom case headed to trial, the list of exhibits to be introduced by the investment banks included campaign contributions by three partners at Bernstein Litowitz from 2001 to 2003. Records show that the three partners contributed $25,000 to Mr. Hevesi. David Neustadt, Mr. Hevesi's spokesman, said there was a ''complete wall'' between the campaign and the selection committee, and he noted that Entwistle & Cappucci, the other law firm handling the Merck case, contributed to Mr. Hevesi's opponents in 2002. 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday comparing the size of legal fees for investor class-action lawsuits before and after the passage of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 misstated the name of a bank involved in one settlement. It was the First Republicbank Corporation in Texas, not the First Republic Bank in San Francisco. The chart also misidentified the lead counsel in the Waste Management settlement. It was Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow, not Milberg Weiss Bershad & Shulman.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan G. Hevesi is the steward of the $120 billion New York State Common Retirement Fund. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. C2)Chart: ''A Smaller Cut for the Lawyer''In the five years before the passage of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, legal fees averaged 32 percent of settlements in investor class-action lawsuits. Since the law took effect, fees as a percentage of settlements fell to 26 percent when pension funds acted as lead plaintiffs.Legal fees in settlements before 1995COMPANY: Philip MorrisLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: misstatements about nicotineYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 1998 -- Filed in 1994FEES REQUESTED: 30.0%VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: $116.5 millionLEAD COUNSEL: Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & HerzPLAINTIFF FUND: NoneCOMPANY: Chambers Development CompanyLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: restatement of financial resultsYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 1995FEES REQUESTED: 30.0VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: 87.1LEAD COUNSEL: Abbey & Ellis
Specter Law Offices
Wolf Popper Ross Wolf & JonesPLAINTIFF FUND: NoneCOMPANY: First Republic BankLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: misstatements on bank mergerYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 1993FEES REQUESTED: 27.5VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: 86.7LEAD COUNSEL: Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann
Greenfield & Chimicles
Susman GodfreyPLAINTIFF FUND: NoneAfter the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act passedCOMPANY: Bristol-Myers Squibb CompanyLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: misstatements about cancer drug ErbituxYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 2004FEES REQUESTED: 7.5VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: 300.0LEAD COUNSEL: Berman DeValerio Pease Tabacco Burt & Pucillo
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & GrossmannPLAINTIFF FUND: Louisiana State Employees Retirement SystemCOMPANY: Oxford Health PlansLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: misstatements on medical claimsYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 2003FEES REQUESTED: 33.3VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: 300.0LEAD COUNSEL: Chitwood & Harley
Grant & Eisenhofer
 Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & LerachPLAINTIFF FUND: Colorado Public Employees Retirement Association, PBHG FundsCOMPANY: Waste ManagementLAWSUITS ALLEGATION: restatement of earningsYEAR OF SETTLEMENT: 2002FEES REQUESTED: 7.9VALUE OF SETTLEMENT: 457.0LEAD COUNSEL: Milberg Weiss Bershad & ShulmanPLAINTIFF FUND: Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds(Source by NERA Economic Consulting, Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); VETO (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); WRITERS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); MILBERG LLP (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



319 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS PLUNGE TO LOWEST POINT SINCE ELECTION

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER; Eric Dash contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled to their lowest levels since the presidential election yesterday, extending a recent slump that has come amid fears that economic growth is slowing.
 The sell-off yesterday was ignited by surprisingly weak earnings from I.B.M., and steepened throughout the day. It was the worst single day for the market this year and capped the worst week since August.
 But it may be that general uncertainty -- something that the stock market and millions of investors have never warmed to -- is the real force behind the decline. 
 While some economists are now suddenly predicting slower economic growth, others are not. And no one is talking about a slump. Federal Reserve officials have been worried about inflationary pressures, but any economic slowdown might help relieve those. 
 ''Right now it's a no vote on the economic outlook for the next six months,'' said Joseph Liro, an economist and market analyst with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. ''And that is because of the uncertainty about the impact of oil'' on consumer spending, corporate profits and inflation, he said.
 The persistence of crude oil prices above $50 a barrel, he said, ''is certainly doing something to consumer sentiment,'' a fact reflected in the decline in April consumer confidence reported yesterday.
 Worries that the economy may be softening flared up this week after reports showed weak monthly retail sales and an unexpected surge in the nation's trade deficit with the rest of the world. Many economists have lowered their estimates on how much the economy grew in the first three months of the year and are reviewing their forecasts for the rest of the year.
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 191.24 points, or 1.9 percent, at 10,087.51, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 38.56 points, or 2 percent, to 1,908.15, The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 19.43 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,142.62. 
 The slump this week wiped out the big gains for the Nasdaq that came in the postelection rally last year and almost all of the gains for the Dow and S.&P. 500. 
 Investors are more cautious and are avoiding stocks, said Sallie Krawcheck, Citigroup's chief financial officer. ''There's a pulling back that has occurred,'' she said yesterday. ''And we're seeing it not just in the U.S. but frankly around the world.'' 
 As stocks fell, the bond market rallied as investors there seemed to accept that that if the economy is slowing, Federal Reserve policy makers will probably worry less about inflation and be less aggressive in pushing up interest rates.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.24 percent, its lowest level in two months, as bond prices rose sharply. 
 ''We are oscillating between worrying about overheating and the Fed jacking up interest rates and 'My gosh, the consumer is capitulating and the economy is going to slow,''' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. ''But if you step back a bit, you see that growth is still good, profits are still good and job growth, while not stellar, is not bad.''
 Taking the longer view, however, is not something that investors are likely to do in a year that has already been a big disappointment for equities. For 2005, the Dow is down 6.5 percent, the S.&.P. 500 is down 5.7 percent and Nasdaq is down 12.3 percent.
 After the stock market closed on Thursday, I.B.M. reported first-quarter earnings of 85 cents a share, missing Wall Street forecasts by a nickel. Yesterday, I.B.M. plunged $6.94, or 8.3 percent, to $76.70. While I.B.M.'s fall accounted for about half the Dow's decline in early trading, it was only a quarter of the sell-off at the close, as a steady sweep of selling broadened to more and more stocks.
 Whether or not I.B.M.'s problems are a sign of renewed weakness in the technology sector, its plunge dragged down the prices of other technology stocks, including Intel and Microsoft. The S.&P.'s index for the information technology sector was down 3.1 percent.
 The other stocks weighing on the market are those whose earnings are sensitive to the direction of the economy and will fare poorly if growth slows. The Morgan Stanley index of 30 of these companies, including Caterpillar and Ford Motor, was down 2.4 percent and fell sharply on Wednesday and Thursday.
 Stubbornly high oil prices are already hindering growth and will become more of a drag if they remain over $50 a barrel. In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the price of crude oil for May delivery fell 64 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $50.49 a barrel.
 Gas prices are also setting new highs and consumers seem to be feeling the impact and curtailing spending, according to some economists.
 The University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence dropped sharply in April, to 88.7 from 92.6 in March, and is at its lowest level since September 2003. ''Clearly higher fuel prices are having an impact on sentiment,'' said David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley.
 Ms. Krawcheck, the Citigroup executive, cited consumer caution in a conference call yesterday on the bank's earnings. 
 ''We've seen a consumer through this quarter who's acting very responsibly and very conservatively with their financials,'' she said. ''For example, as I mentioned, they're paying down their credit card debt. They're also acting quite conservatively with regard to the stock market.''
 Strong earnings from Citigroup and General Electric may have helped contain the decline in the stock market early in the day. But that counterweight pretty much disappeared by the market's close.
 Citigroup said its profits were up 3.2 percent in the three months through March. G.E. said that first-quarter profits rose by 25 percent, the biggest increase in five quarters. G.E.'s stock was up as much as 2.8 percent during the day and Citigroup was up as much as 2.1 percent. But by the close of trading, General Electric was up just 0.7 percent and Citigroup just 0.8 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Average from October 2005 through April 2005.YESTERDAY: 10,087.5ELECTION DAY: 10,035.7(Source by Bloomberg Financial Desk)(pg. A1)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



320 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The Miracle That Wasn't

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY. 
E-mail: tierney@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It is an inspirational urban lesson from the 1990's: take back the streets from squeegee men and drug dealers, and violent crime will plummet. But on Thursday evening, the tipping-point theory was looking pretty wobbly itself. 
 The occasion was a debate in Manhattan before an audience thrilled to be present for a historic occasion: the first showdown between two social-science wonks with books that were ranked second and third on Amazon.com (outsold only by ''Harry Potter''). It pitted Malcolm Gladwell, author of ''Blink'' and ''The Tipping Point,'' against Steven D. Levitt, an economist at the University of Chicago with the new second-place book, ''Freakonomics.'' 
 Professor Levitt considers the New York crime story to be an urban legend. Yes, he acknowledges, there are tipping points when people suddenly start acting differently, but why did crime drop in so many other cities that weren't using New York's policing techniques? His new book, written with Stephen J. Dubner, concludes that one big reason was simply the longer prison sentences that kept criminals off the streets of New York and other cities.
 The prison terms don't explain why crime fell sooner and more sharply in New York than elsewhere, but Professor Levitt accounts for that, too. One reason he cites is that the crack epidemic eased earlier in New York than in other cities. Another, more important, reason is that New York added lots of cops in the early 90's. 
 But the single most important cause, he says, was an event two decades earlier: the legalization of abortion in New York State in 1970, three years before it was legalized nationally by the Supreme Court. 
 The result, he maintains, was a huge reduction in the number of children who would have been at greater than average risk of becoming criminals during the 1990's. Growing up as an unwanted child is itself a risk factor, he says, and the women who had abortions were disproportionately likely to be unmarried teenagers with low incomes and poor education -- factors that also increase the risk. 
 It's a theory that doesn't sit well with either liberals or conservatives, and Professor Levitt hastens to add that the reduction in crime is not an argument for encouraging abortion -- he personally has mixed feelings on whether abortion should be legal. But he says the correlations are clear: crime declined earlier in the states that had legalized abortion before Roe v. Wade, and it declined more in places with high abortion rates, like New York.
 Some criminologists have quarreled with his statistics, but the theory was looking robust at the end of the debate in Manhattan. Mr. Gladwell, while raising what he called a few minor quibbles, seemed mostly persuaded by the numbers. 
 ''My first inclination,'' he joked at the beginning of his rebuttal, ''is to say that everything you just heard from Steven Levitt, even though it contradicts things I have written, is true.''
 That's my inclination, too, as a less successful exponent of the same theory. (In 1995 I explained the crime decline with my version of the tipping point, the Squeegee Watershed, which became neither a buzzword nor a best seller.) In retrospect, the New York crime story looks like a classic bit of conventional wisdom, as the term was originally defined by John Kenneth Galbraith: an idea that becomes commonly accepted because it is ''what the community as a whole or particular audiences find acceptable.'' 
 Unlike the abortion theory, which was raised in the 1990's and angrily dismissed, the tipping-point idea jibed reassuringly with everyone's beliefs and needs. Urbanites and politicians welcomed a new reason to crack down on street nuisances. Journalists wanted a saga with heroes. Criminologists and the police loved to see their new strategies having dramatic results.
 I still think the police made some difference, and not merely because there were more of them on the streets. The new computerized crime-tracking strategies put new pressure on them. 
 One veteran cop told me that traditionally only a quarter of the officers had done their jobs, and that the heroic achievement of Commissioner William Bratton and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had been to get that figure up to 50 percent. 
 But it now looks as if the good guys did not take back the streets all on their own, and the moral of the story is less about safe streets than safe beliefs. Professor Levitt's abortion theory is not appealing. But the ideas that make us comfortable are the ones to beware.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); ABORTION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WRITERS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); COCAINE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); RANKINGS (71%); CHILDREN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



321 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Brooklyn Accent for 2 Queens As Cruise Ships Quit Manhattan

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
The Queen Mary 2, the Queen Elizabeth 2 and other elegant world-class passenger and cruise ships will abandon glamorous Manhattan and make Brooklyn their home port next year when the city finishes rebuilding a pier in Red Hook where longshoremen once ruled the docks and mean streets.
 Exercising an option offered by the city last year, Carnival Corporation, which owns the fleets of the Cunard and Princess Lines, will move the berths of four of its most luxurious ships from the frayed and crowded West Side Passenger Ship Terminal to a huge pier being redeveloped in Atlantic Basin, opposite Governors Island, city and company officials said yesterday.
 The shift is expected to advance the city into a new era of passenger ship glory: bringing 250,000 voyagers to town beyond this year's 900,000; adding dozens of dockings to the schedule; creating thousands of jobs and an array of retail, restaurant, hotel and other traveler-related businesses in Red Hook; and speeding the revival of a once grim industrial-warehouse district.
 For passengers bound for trans-Atlantic crossings and world and Caribbean cruises, the shift will mean new perspectives getting to and from their ships: tunnel and bridge crossings, ventures into the terra incognita of Brooklyn, and embarkation into Buttermilk Channel instead of the storied Hudson. 
 But the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and the Gowanus and Brooklyn-Queens Expressways thread into the neighborhood, and the reward for passengers, city and Carnival officials said, will be in the sprawling terminal -- a modern 180,000-square-foot building capable of accommodating 4,000 passengers with a constellation of traveler amenities and some of the world's biggest ships. 
 In the 2006 cruise season starting next April, the four ships -- Cunard's Queen Mary 2 and Queen Elizabeth 2 and Princess Line's Crown Princess and Star Princess -- will call about 44 times at Pier 12, a former cargo dock rapidly undergoing transformation, with a rebuilt steel shed, new bollards and fenders, an internal roadway, a 500-car parking area, taxi and bus drop-off areas, and even landscaping. 
 ''Red Hook is rich in maritime history,'' said Kate Ascher, the city Economic Development Corporation's executive vice president for infrastructure. ''Now it's coming home. Numerous Brooklyn residents will have the opportunity to work at this terminal, and thousands of travelers will get to experience not only a first-class terminal but also the wonderful neighborhood, restaurants and entertainment possibilities.''
 The pier will be big enough to accommodate the 1,132-foot Queen Mary 2, which carries 2,620 passengers, as well as the 963-foot Queen Elizabeth 2 (1,790 passengers), the Crown Princess (3,100 passengers) and Star Princess (2,600 passengers), the last two three football fields in length, said Julie Benson, a spokeswoman for the Princess Line in Santa Clarita, Calif.
 Crown Princess, the newest of the line's ships, is under construction in Italy and will make its debut from Red Hook on a Caribbean cruise next April, Ms. Benson said. The $800 million Queen Mary 2, the world's largest passenger ship, made its inaugural voyage to New York last year, docking on the West Side with its stern jutting 132 feet into the Hudson, an incongruity symptomatic of the terminal, which was last renovated 35 years ago. 
 Dean Brown, executive vice president for fleet operations for the Cunard and Princess Lines, said that Carnival had decided to shift the berths of some of its best ships to Brooklyn because the Red Hook terminal was the first to be modernized by the city in a $150 million redevelopment project that will include the crowded, antiquated West Side Passenger Ship Terminal, between 48th and 52nd Streets.
 ''We're taking advantage of the fact that the Brooklyn terminal is the first to be redeveloped by the city in a manner that accommodates our passengers,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We're happy to be there.'' 
 The money for the terminals' redevelopment was guaranteed under a deal in which Carnival and the Norwegian Cruise Lines, which together account for 80 percent of the cruise traffic in the city, agreed to bring in 13 million passengers and pay $200 million in port charges over the next 13 years. Ship lines pay docking fees based on a vessel's size and the number of passengers.
 The city offered Carnival the option of moving some berths to Brooklyn, and Carnival has accepted. ''We're looking forward to being the inaugural tenant of this brand new development,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Ms. Ascher, of the Economic Development Corporation, said that the expansion of the cruise industry over the next decade was expected to raise the number of related jobs in the city to 5,000 from 3,300 and increase spending in New York -- for hotels, meals, retail goods and other businesses -- to $900 million from $600 million.
 Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, hailed the shift to his borough as an economic breakthrough. ''Brooklyn will be the most successful cruise line location in the Northeast,'' he predicted. ''It all adds up to more jobs, more growth opportunities for Brooklyn businesses and entrepreneurs, and a huge boost for Brooklyn tourism.''
 Bruce Batkin, a developer who owns two former warehouses overlooking the Red Hook docks on Imlay Street and has been converting one to condominiums and retail spaces, said he had had unsolicited offers from hotel operators for the second property. Ship passengers, he said, would find Red Hook to be a fascinating neighborhood of artisans, craftsmen and new businesses, not a rundown waterfront.
 ''Life changes,'' he said. ''Things change. Look at the East Village, the Lower East Side. Red Hook is artsy, not seedy. It's funky, richly textured.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture on April 16 with an article about the Carnival Corporation's plan to base four of its cruise ships at Pier 12 in Red Hook, Brooklyn, was published in error. It showed the Beard Street warehouse area south of Pier 12.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 2003 view of the dock in Red Hook, Brooklyn, that is slated to become a sleek terminal for some of the world's largest passenger ships. (Photo by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 The Queen Mary 2, the world's largest passenger ship, headed to Manhattan in heavy fog last April after its inaugural voyage to New York. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HISTORY (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (92%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



322 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Bush Takes His Campaign On Social Security to Ohio

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: KIRTLAND, Ohio, April 15 

 BODY:
President Bush returned on Friday to the state that secured his victory in last year's election, and hailed the system it uses in lieu of Social Security for many public employees as a model of the kind of individual retirements accounts he is trying to create on a national scale.
 In his latest effort to sustain Social Security proposals that have gained little traction thus far, Mr. Bush used his visit here to hail a system that allows public employees to ''opt out'' of Social Security and direct their retirement contributions -- and those of their employers -- into portfolios of stocks and bonds that rise and fall with the markets.
 While the Ohio system looks considerably different from the kind Mr. Bush is discussing with members of Congress, its core concept is that employees choose how much risk they want to assume. They can select everything from a traditional pension plan, with clearly defined benefits, to an account they direct themselves that offers less security, but potentially greater returns. 
 So far Mr. Bush has not backed a specific proposal for remaking Social Security, saying he first wants to convince Americans that the current system is unsustainable.
 But he appears to be making little headway. In advance of his visit, AARP, the retiree lobbying group that is a leading opponent of Mr. Bush's approach, released a poll of this area of Ohio showing that skepticism about personal accounts grows the more that local residents learn about the risks.
 Mr. Bush favors making individual accounts a part of the Social Security program for younger workers. And to advance his agenda, he assembled a carefully chosen ''round table'' of Ohio officials and retirement plan participants to extol the virtues of breaking free of the system Franklin D. Roosevelt established.
 Mr. Bush did not address the criticism that the creation of individual accounts would do little to resolve the issue of the system's fundamental long-term solvency. And on Friday, while discussing the benefits of greater investment freedom, he did not discuss in detail the risk that assets in those accounts could shrink in a down market. 
 Indeed, in describing his vision of all Americans opening quarterly reports on the performance of their assets, Mr. Bush discussed only a situation in which those assets increased. 
 ''Congress needs to pay attention to things that work,'' he said here. Describing the Ohio system, he added: ''You watch it, you manage it, and if you pass away, you can leave it to your spouse to help that person transition, then help that person live life. It's an asset.''
 The original Social Security system, now seven decades old, did not include many public employees. In Ohio, university professors began experimenting with alternatives for their state-financed pensions. 
 ''It did so well that it quickly expanded beyond the professors,'' said Karl Rove, the president's chief political strategist and now a senior policy maker in the White House, who joined the trip and has been heading the effort to win passage of Mr. Bush's top domestic initiative. ''It's a model worth studying.''
 Mr. Rove declined to speak for attribution about other alternatives. But the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, told reporters not to read too much into comments attributed to Al Hubbard, Mr. Bush's top economic adviser, saying that the administration was open to the idea that personal accounts could be created in addition to existing benefits.
 ''The president made it clear that we're not going to get into ruling things in or out,'' Mr. McClellan said.
 At the same time a fact sheet the White House issued Friday noted that federal employees already had add-on accounts of their own, under the Thrift Savings Plan. 
 But other officials noted that add-on accounts, as they are called, would do nothing to close the projected gap between what Social Security takes in from current workers and what it pays out to retirees. 
 In focusing on state and local employees in Ohio on Friday, the White House was seeking to drive home the point that five million Americans -- Ohioans and other employees around the country -- were not participating in the Social Security system. 
 Ohio offers a particularly flexible series of alternatives, including personal accounts. Employees can choose what kind of mix of stocks and bonds they want in their investment accounts, though some round-table participants told Mr. Bush it was essential that workers be tutored in the ways of the markets.
 ''I think all people are capable of learning what investment means,'' Mr. Bush said. ''People from all walks of life, all neighborhoods, have got the capacity to manage their own money.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); BONDS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



323 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Iraq Reconstruction Funds Shifted to Training Forces
Reconstruction projects are being canceled in scores of communities across Iraq. After the outbreak of the insurgency last year, $3.4 billion of the $4 billion slated for water and sewage projects was shifted to pay for training and equipping the Iraqi Army and police forces. A1

A suicide bomber steered his car into an Iraqi police patrol near Hilla, killing four officers, and three bomb attacks in Baghdad wounded at least nine people. A6

Hotel Fire in Paris Kills 20
A hotel fire in Paris killed 20 people, including 10 children. Several people jumped to their deaths. Most of the victims were immigrants placed in the hotel by the city's social service agencies. A3

Possible U.N. Bribery Charges
A Swiss judge is investigating possible bribery charges involving a $50 million contract to renovate the headquarters of a Geneva-based United Nations agency. A7

Pro-Syrian Premier in Lebanon
President Emile Lahoud of Lebanon appointed a pro-Syrian businessman and member of Parliament, Najib Mikati, as prime minister designate, breaking the deadlock over the formation of a Lebanese government and paving the way for parliamentary elections. A7

Protest Movement Alarms China
Chinese authorities warned that protests like those authorized by Beijing a week ago now threatened to get out of control. The authorities expressed alarm that the protests had apparently set off a flood of organizing activity that could further upset relations with Japan and undermine China's own social stability. A4

NATIONAL A8-11;A14

Acela Express TrainsTaken Out of Service
Amtrak took all its Acela Express trains out of service because a government inspector looking under a train after a speed experiment noticed cracks in the brakes, and hundreds of similar flaws on other trains. A1

Counseling for Inmates
Oklahoma state officials will allow inmates in good standing, including some serving life sentences, to take part in a six-part course on maintaining a healthy marriage. A10

Bill Would Change Clean Air Act
A brief provision buried in the energy bill would make one of the most significant changes to the Clean Air Act in 15 years, and could have major consequences for communities struggling to clean up their air. A1

Arrest in Cape Cod Killing
Law enforcement authorities announced an arrest in the highly publicized killing of a fashion writer in the winter of 2002, after a three-year investigation, including a dragnet attempt to collect DNA from all the men in one Cape Cod town. A1

Bush Tax Returns Released
President Bush and Laura Bush reported income for last year of $784,219 and paid federal income taxes of $207,307, according to copies of their 2004 tax returns released by the White House. A8

Intelligence Plans Faulted
The presidential commission on intelligence has sharply criticized overhaul plans drafted by the C.I.A. and F.B.I. at the request of President Bush, saying that glaring shortcomings of both proposals illustrate ''the difficulty of bringing about real change'' in the agencies. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Brooklyn Piers to Be Built For Largest Cruise Ships
The Queen Mary 2, the Queen Elizabeth 2 and the Carnival Corporation's world-class passenger and cruise ships will dock in Brooklyn instead of Manhattan next year, company and city officials said. The move could eventually add 250,000 more voyagers to town beyond this year's 900,000. A1

Catskills Casino Bill Dropped
Governor Pataki withdrew pending legislation that would have allowed five Indian-run casinos in the Catskills and settled tribal land claims. A spokesman said a recent federal court ruling makes it necessary to renegotiate the settlements. B1

Religion Journal A11

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

OBITUARIES B6

John T. McTernan
A left-wing lawyer who defended people accused of being Communists in the McCarthy years and aided unpopular clients from Angela Davis to Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers, he was 94. B6

ARTS B7-17

R. Crumb in the Art World
Cartoonist R. Crumb appeared on stage alongside art critic Robert Hughes discussing his work at the New York Public Library in a rare public appearance to promote ''The R. Crumb Handbook,'' a memoir written in collaboration with Peter Poplaski. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Stocks Slump Continues
Stocks tumbled to their lowest levels since the presidential election, extending a recent slump that has come amid fears that economic growth is slowing. A1

Payout at Viacom
The top three executives at Viacom received total 2004 compensation of $52 million to $56 million each in salary, bonus and stock options, the company disclosed. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Bill Frist's religious war; a protest on video; money for nothing; Verlyn Klinkenborg on life coming to a standstill at the local carwash.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B16
Crossword B15
TV Listings B17
Weather B18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); BRIBERY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); ARMIES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); TAX LAW (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ELECTIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (66%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); TRAINS (63%); INCOME TAX (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); EMILE LAHOUD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) IRAQ (94%); CHINA (93%); LEBANON (93%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



324 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Connecting to India Through Pakistan

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
On the same day last month that the United States announced that it would sell F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan, President Bush personally called the prime minister of India, Pakistan's archrival, with advice intended to soften the blow. The United States, Mr. Bush confided, had decided to allow fighter jet sales to India as well. 
 Newspapers around the world put the Pakistani deal in headlines. But it was the 15-minute phone call that was heard loud and clear by American military contractors. 
 The jet sales to Pakistan have high symbolic value, but little in the way of business promise. Two dozen new F-16's will be made available to Pakistan as a reward for that country's aid in the war on terror and will strengthen a fleet of about 40 F-16's acquired before Congress halted sales in 1990 to protest Pakistan's nuclear ambitions. 
 But the decision to open up the Indian market means that contractors now have the chance to sell up to 126 fighter jets -- with price tags starting at $35 million each -- to a country with an aging military fleet of 800 jets, none of them made in America. 
 ''The real prize is India,'' said Richard Aboulafia, a military analyst at the Teal Group, an aerospace consulting firm in Fairfax, Va.
 ''India would have gone on its merry way,'' Mr. Aboulafia added, ''but the announcement of Pakistan getting the F-16's changes the game. For years, India has coasted on Russian and locally made fighter jets. Now, if its adversary gets real new American planes, it has to have them, too.''
 For Lockheed-Martin, the potential sales to India mean that it may be able to keep alive its aging F-16 production line and save jobs in Fort Worth, where nearly 5,000 people work on the plane. 
 Alternatively, Boeing could benefit if India pushes for something other than the F-16. That could mean new business for Boeing in St. Louis, where 5,000 people now build the F/A-18 Super Hornet and the F-15 Strike Eagle, high-performance jets now exclusively used by the American military.
 Moreover, any initial deals could lead to more Indian arms sales of all types as New Delhi has announced a lavish spending plan to strengthen the country's military and upgrade its armaments. High on its list are early warning and missile defense systems, nuclear fuel and technologies and space-related technologies.
 Some critics denounced the Bush administration's move as contributing to a South Asian arms race. But from the government's perspective, weapons sales to Pakistan and India strengthen the American presence on the Chinese border and open new markets throughout Asia for military contractors, which are looking more to foreign buyers as the Pentagon budget comes under pressure. 
 As for India, which already supplies software to Boeing and Lockheed, purchases of American arms would enable it to gain access to American military technology and participate in co-production agreements.
 ''The last few years since 9/11 have been a gold rush for U.S. contractors,'' said Jon Kutler, president of Quarterdeck Investment Partnership, a unit of the Jeffries Group. ''But, in the next few years, we expect export sales will become extremely important again as U.S. spending on these major weapons platforms will start to go down.''
 India has a number of American fighter jets to choose from. But the heavy betting is on a fleet of F-16's, rather than large purchases of Boeing's F/A-18 and F-15 fighter jets, which are more specialized and more expensive.
 The 20 or so F-16's to be purchased by Pakistan would add about a year's life to a Fort Worth production line that had been scheduled to shut in 2008 because of a paucity of orders from the Air Force. An even bigger Indian order would keep the F-16 line alive much longer. 
 ''The potential for 126 jets is a significant program,'' said Tom Jurkowsky, a Lockheed spokesman. ''If we don't get any more F-16 orders by 2005, we would have to take action to close the line. India is a market we want to pursue.'' 
 Because of Pakistan's meager economy, $3 billion in American aid will be provided to buy the F-16's. India, by contrast, has enough money to pay for a large order of fighters itself.
 First built in 1978, the F-16 has long been a powerful workhorse of the skies and has been one of the most successful and profitable American fighter jets ever made. More than 4,200 have been sold to 24 countries, but none to India, which has relied mainly on Russian-made MiG's.
 The lack of American fighter jets in the Indian military fleet reflects decades of touchy relations between the two countries: the United States twice cut off arms sales to India during cold war disputes, prompting New Delhi to respond by displaying an even deeper distrust of doing business with a country it could not consider a reliable military supplier. 
 With the Pentagon having all the F-16's it needs, Lockheed has relied almost exclusively on foreign sales to keep the production line going. Recent sales of 48 new F-16's to Poland and an order for 60 to the United Arab Emirates were seen as the last planes to be rolling off the line.
 At the moment, Lockheed is gearing up for production of a new generation of replacement fighter jets, mainly the supersonic F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. But that jet is still in development and will not enter American military service for a few years. 
 With its sales declining, Lockheed has been paring down F-16 employment. In January 2004, the F-16 line employed 5,800. That has since dropped to 5000. According to Mr. Jurkowsky, Lockheed anticipates a work force of 4,000 by next January if it gets no new orders.
 ''This is a new opportunity that was not there before,'' said Pierre Chao, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a nonpartisan group in Washington that closely follows international affairs and generally favors a strong stance abroad. ''The reopening of sales to Pakistan and the opening of sales to India extends the life of the production line, the Fort Worth operation and the entire F-16 supply chain throughout the country. It also provides the Air Force with a warm production line should it want extra F-16's.''
 Lockheed, already in discussion with India about sales of its P-3 Orion patrol planes and the C-130J Hercules cargo plane, is rolling out the red carpet and has said it could build exclusive F-16's for India with special features for that country's needs. Last November, Lockheed anticipated these changes by getting State Department approval to give India information on the F-16. 
 Lockheed executives, along with officials from Boeing and other American military contractors, traveled to Bangalore in February for Aero India, a five-day air show; about 25 more non-Indian military contractors were at the show this time than at the previous show, two years earlier. 
 ''If India's requirements are beyond any existing fighters, we are prepared to make upgraded F-16's to India's specifications with complete transfer of technology,'' Mike Kelly, a Lockheed senior executive said in an interview last month with the Press Trust of India, a New Delhi news agency. ''We have, in the past, taken up building of such exclusive fighters for the U.A.E. and we are prepared to manufacture F-16's to India's special requirements.'' Lockheed would not make Mr. Kelly available for further comment. 
 One of India's big desires is to acquire military technologies from the United States that it could someday replicate. India, which will also look at possible fighter jet purchases from European nations, is proposing that it buy 18 F-16's outright and that the remaining 108 be built in India under a licensing agreement. This would be similar to arrangements Lockheed has made with Turkey, South Korea and a number of NATO countries. 
 Under these arrangements, the F-16 is mostly built in the United States, then broken down. The pieces are then shipped overseas and reassembled. This arrangement creates jobs in two countries. 
 ''India wants to do what China has done,'' said Stephen P. Cohen, a senior fellow and South Asian specialist at the Brookings Institution, a liberal Washington research group. ''They want to take a technology, improve it and then build it themselves. They've already done this with ships and now they want to do it with aircraft from the U.S.''
 As for Boeing, which is already relying on Indian companies to provide software for its new commercial jet, the 787 Dreamliner, the hope is to turn these business ties into military sales.
 The Boeing F/A-18, which is used exclusively by the Navy and Marines, is capable of shipboard landings. India, which has just completed building its own carrier vessels, may find this feature attractive, but the price of $50 million for each plane could stand in the way. The top-of-the-line F-15, which costs around $65 million a plane, may also prove too costly to buy in large numbers. 
 About 4,500 people work in St. Louis on the F/A-18 production line, which has produced about 200 planes from a contract calling for around 200 more. 
 Boeing has applied for an export license with the United States government and is meeting with the Navy to determine what technologies it can provide to India. 
 ''This could be significant for us,'' said Thomas Young, a spokesman for Boeing in St. Louis. ''We are looking for new customers to increase the life of our product lines.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the sale of jet fighters to Pakistan and India referred incorrectly to the market for the F/A-18 Super Hornet and the F-15 Strike Eagle. The F-15 has been sold to foreign governments; it is not used exclusively by the United States military. Earlier versions of the F-18 are in use overseas; the latest model is flown only by the Navy.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lockheed Martin production floor in Fort Worth, where the F-16 jet fighter is being built for Pakistan. (Photo by Jerry W. Hoefer for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 American contractors like Lockheed Martin now have the chance to sell up to 126 fighter jets -- with price tags starting at $35 million each -- to India, which has an aging military fleet of 800 jets. (Photo by Jerry W. Hoefer for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''A Popular Workhorse''The declining production of Lockheed Martin's F-16 fighter jet may be reversed if India is allowed to buy up to 126 planes for its military.TOP 10 CUSTOMERS -- NUMBER OF F-16's SOLDU.S. Air Force and Navy -- 2,284Israel -- 312Turkey -- 240Egypt -- 220The Netherlands -- 213South Korea -- 180Belgium -- 160Taiwan -- 150Greece -- 140United Arab Emirates -- 80Graph tracks worldwide deliveries from before 1980 to the present.(Source by Lockheed Martin)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (91%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ARMS RACE (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); BELGIUM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



325 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Berlusconi's Shaky Coalition Loses an Important Partner

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

DATELINE: ROME, April 15 

 BODY:
A poor showing in local elections 11 days ago for Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi struck home on Friday when a small party in his coalition pulled out of the cabinet, threatening the government's survival.
 Facing the worst turmoil in his four years in office, Mr. Berlusconi promised to hang on for now. 
 ''I fear you will not get rid of me so easily,'' he joked to reporters outside his residence here. But he also said, as reported by the ANSA news agency, ''If the interests of the country must prevail, I will make the proper decision.''
 Mr. Berlusconi was consulting with his political allies late on Friday, and let it be known that he might see the president -- implying that he might offer his resignation. But he later said that he would give the party another chance to rejoin the government, and that if it did not, early elections would be the consequence.
 The prime minister, whose coalition won power in 2001, is trying to become the first head of government to finish out a five-year term since the Italian republic was established after World War II. Regular elections are scheduled for next year. 
 But a weak economy and growing dissatisfaction with Italy's presence in Iraq are undermining support for his government. Anger has mounted since March 4, when American troops mistakenly fired on a car carrying a freed Italian hostage near Baghdad, killing the intelligence officer who had mediated her release. 
 The renegade party, the Christian Democratic Union, said Friday that it would pull its four ministers out of the government. Without the party's votes, Mr. Berlusconi's coalition loses control of the Senate and barely holds on to the Chamber of Deputies.
 The party had been pushing for a change in government policies since local voting on April 4. In that vote, the center-right coalition, dominated by Mr. Berlusconi's Forza Italia party, ceded six provinces it had previously controlled to the center-left opposition, losing a total of 11 provinces of 13 that were being contested. The Berlusconi forces won 40.4 percent of the vote, less than their 48.5 percent share in the 2001 general election.
 ''Berlusconi did not want to look at reality,'' said Anna Mazzone, a spokeswoman for the Christian Democratic Union. ''And the reality is that the majority of the country is not with the government.'' She said Mr. Berlusconi was pushing ahead with tax cuts when his government should be more focused on providing aid to southern Italy, social welfare benefits and supports for families.
 But in the typically ambiguous style of politics here, a Christian Democratic official, Marco Follini, who is deputy prime minister, said his party would support the majority coalition ''without equivocation.''
 Nevertheless, that sort of support, accompanied by Friday's slap in the face, would mean Mr. Berlusconi would be constantly looking over his shoulder in every vote in Parliament. 
 So what are Mr. Berlusconi's options? He could reshuffle his ministers and go forward with the coalition as it is. Or he could resign and let President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi choose a new government, which would have to seek a vote of confidence in Parliament. Mr. Ciampi could also call early elections, though he would be pressed for time because the vote must be called at least 45 days ahead, and Italian elections are traditionally not held in the summer.
 Waiting in the wings is Romano Prodi, the former European Commission president, who is leader of the center-left coalition and a longtime Berlusconi rival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); WORLD WAR II (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (55%) ITALY (93%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



326 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: A Sudanese City of Refugees With No Plans to Go Home

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: ABUSHOUK, Sudan, April 15 

 BODY:
Stand at the center of this teeming refugee camp and the tents, mud huts and lean-tos stretch all the way to the horizon -- to the north, the south, the east and the west.
 The population has grown by almost 50 percent since December so that now it is a city with as many as 100,000 residents living solely on international aid. More arrive every day. But what really has some aid workers and others here concerned is that none of the residents of this or other camps in Darfur, here in western Sudan -- two million refugees in all -- have any intention of leaving. 
 ''No, we cannot go home,'' said Abdul Latif, 26, who said he walked here from the west late last year. ''Too afraid.''
 Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoellick came here for a quick visit on Friday afternoon. He found a camp that had the look of a primitive village on its way to becoming semi-permanent. Thousands of residents have built small mud-brick homes. Workers from the nearby town of El Fasher are streaming into the desert to build brick kilns, dozens and dozens of them. They can sell the bricks as fast as they can mint them.
 Mr. Zoellick, after a drive-through tour and a talk with aid workers, said, ''We have to work on a political solution to the overall conflict'' before anyone can start thinking about sending the refugees home.
 David Killingsworth, a director of the United States Agency for International Development in Darfur, said he had not seen anything but increases in population in all the camps spread across Darfur. As for anyone leaving to move home, he said, ''No, no, the security situation is too bad.''
 The conflict that led to mass migration to these camps began in 2003, when the government in Khartoum sent troops and allied militias to put down a nascent rebel threat in Darfur. The government forces terrorized Darfur, burning villages and killing as many as 160,000 people over two years, according to United States government figures.
 Mahmoud Ismael, who said he was a farmer, said militiamen burned his village, including his house. Two of his children died. ''I cannot go back. There is nothing there,'' he said.
 Relief workers told Mr. Zoellick that they were overwhelmed and could not keep up with the need. And still the people keep coming. 
 ''They are comfortable here,'' said a three-star general from Nairobi, part of an African Union force stationed in the camp to keep marauding militias out. He did not want to give his name. ''They cannot go home. And the fact remains that the government'' in Khartoum ''is still not sincere'' about ending the violence in Darfur.
 Lt. Col. Hammerton Hanga, an African Union officer from Kenya, complained: ''We need extra troops; we need extra troops. The message has been passed to our leaders.''
 Mr. Zoellick, too, urged an expansion of the African Union force, which now numbers 2,300 soldiers for an area the size of France
 ''The near-term need,'' Mr. Zoellick said, ''is just to make sure we get basic supplies in.''
 On Friday morning, before flying to Darfur, Mr. Zoellick traveled to Rumbek, the capital of southern Sudan, and met John Garang, the former rebel leader who leads the Sudanese Popular Liberation Movement in southern Sudan, which ended the 22-year civil war with the Sudanese government in January. 
 Two senior officials said American intelligence showed connections between Mr. Garang's army in the south and the main rebel force in Darfur. A senior administration official said there was a hope that Mr. Garang could use his position to pressure rebel groups in Darfur to stand down.
 Mr. Zoellick began this weeklong trip on Monday in Oslo. There he told an international conference assembled to raise money in support of the southern Sudan peace agreement that the United States was pledging between $1 billion and $2 billion. The 50 nations attending the conference together pledged $4.5 billion.
 Rumbek, with a population of 30,000, is a collection of one-room thatched huts with grass roofs. It has no electricity, running water or telephone service. The nearest paved road is 500 miles away.
 The bulk of the pledged international aid is intended for roads, schools and other projects to modernize Sudan. Meeting with Mr. Zoellick on Friday, Mr. Garang asked him for $30 million immediately. As Mr. Zoellick explained it later, the $4.5 billion is ''a big number'' that seems ''far off.'' Mr. Garang wanted to get started with building projects right away. 
 Mr. Zoellick asked Mr. Garang for help in Darfur and said Mr. Garang offered general support. Mr. Garang was in the audience at the conference in Oslo when Mr. Zoellick told the group that unless the problems in Darfur were resolved, ''my country and others will not be able to support'' the north-south peace agreement fully and that ''Sudan could slip back into the depths.''
 In an interview Friday after his meeting with Mr. Zoellick, Mr. Garang said: ''We want to help with Darfur. You can't have peace in one part of the country and war in another.'' But he added that he felt ''no pressure at all'' from Mr. Zoellick. He rejected the idea that aid for his region was contingent on progress in Darfur. 
 ''That is flawed,'' he said. ''We need to keep the processes separate.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a visit by Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoellick to Sudan misstated the name of the rebel group formerly led by John Garang, who met with him. It is the Sudanese People's Liberation Movement, not the Sudanese Popular Liberation Movement.


GRAPHIC: Map of Sudan highlighting Abushouk: Abushouk has 100,000 people, but no running water or phones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CHILDREN (74%); BURN INJURIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



327 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Politician Faces Necessity Of Realpolitik

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
With the fate of the Plaza Hotel -- and hundreds of jobs -- in question this month, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's political aides saw a prime opportunity to score points with an important labor group by having him take a personal role in the dispute over the hotel's future.
 But the aides' suggestion to have the mayor appear at a meeting of thousands of hotel and restaurant workers opposing the Plaza's plan to convert much of the hotel to condominiums met internal resistance. It came from the mayor's economic team, led by Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, which was trying to mediate the dispute. A battle within the administration followed, according to several officials. 
 In contrast to many similar fights during Mr. Bloomberg's tenure, this time the political aides' argument carried the day, and he went to the event, where he was met with cheers.
 As the mayor's race moves into a more intensive phase, Mr. Bloomberg's City Hall is increasingly taking on a campaign footing. That is a change of pace for an administration that boasts of being less political than its predecessors because Mr. Bloomberg won office with his own money, not that of powerful donors.
 Mr. Bloomberg walked into City Hall as an anti-politician with an agenda that would alarm any responsible political consultant. It included a ban on smoking in public places, a property tax increase and even a short-lived plan to place tolls on East River bridges.
 This year, however, except for his unpopular plan for a West Side stadium, Mr. Bloomberg has aligned himself with popular initiatives that have helped him make new friends in politically important quarters. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's aides warned against attributing his administration's policies to politics just because this was an election year, and said he would always push issues on the merits and would never support those he did not believe in. ''The mayor isn't going to stop working hard to make life better for New Yorkers just because of what year it is,'' said his press secretary, Edward Skyler.
 But administration officials are happy to note that many of his actions this election year are pleasing important constituencies.
 Last month, for instance, Mr. Bloomberg received boisterous cheers at a community meeting in Middle Village, Queens, when he announced that his administration would not support a proposed rail freight tunnel because, he said, he agreed with residents that it would create excessive truck traffic in the area. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's position was at odds with his statement in April 2003 that the tunnel was ''a priority'' and federal financing was needed to ''ensure the safe, efficient and environmentally responsible movement of goods through New York City.'' Middle Village is in the home turf of one of Mr. Bloomberg's Republican opponents, Thomas V. Ognibene, a former city councilman.
 City officials said Mr. Bloomberg had been awaiting public reaction before making his final determination.
 Just as popular was the Police Department's announcement that it would create a fourth precinct on Staten Island after years of calls to deploy more officers there. 
 William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director, said that the administration was trying to meet the needs of the growing population on Staten Island. ''To paraphrase Henry Kissinger,'' he said, ''I suppose it has the added advantage of being positive politically, but that's just the way it works out.''
 Staten Island, with a relatively high percentage of Republicans, could prove important to Mr. Bloomberg's re-election prospects. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican in an overwhelmingly Democratic city, will also need Democratic support. And some of Mr. Bloomberg's recent moves have helped him with Democrats.
 On Thursday a left-leaning councilwoman, Margarita Lopez, called the mayor ''awesome'' for partially reopening Park Row near City Hall to bus and foot traffic for the first time since the Sept. 11 attack in 2001. The move came after years of complaints from merchants in Chinatown that the closing was choking business. 
 And on Wednesday morning he won praise from two Democratic councilmen, Bill de Blasio and Simcha Felder, when he appeared at a community meeting in Borough Park, Brooklyn, bearing several election-year gifts. Among them were a rezoning plan that would create more housing for low-income people and a promise to repave a street whose old trolley tracks are considered a neighborhood menace.
 ''I'm very happy that the mayor provided additional support to Borough Park; that's wonderful. I will also say a lot suddenly moved now that hadn't previously,'' Mr. de Blasio said yesterday. 
 Mr. Felder, whose praise of Mr. Bloomberg tends to fall just short of an endorsement, said Mr. Bloomberg had delivered popular items to the neighborhood in years past -- like a limit on when garbage trucks can operate -- but added, ''are we in campaign mode? Obviously we're in campaign mode.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's aides said that while some wanted him to attend the meeting of the hotel workers union last week, he came to the decision on his own. He did so after weighing arguments from his economic team that he could appear to be choosing sides in the middle of the negotiations and from his political aides that the boost could be enormous.
 (Mr. Bloomberg decided the safest course would be to attend the meeting but to take pains to avoid choosing sides.)
 That appearance seemed to pave the way for his reception on Thursday announcing that the Plaza owners, Elad Properties, and the union had struck a deal to keep much of the hotel intact. As he beamed from the stage, the heavily Democratic members of the Hotel Trades Council met him with chants of ''Four more years.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Bloomberg's decision to partially reopen Park Row won favor with Chinatown merchants, some of whom were at the announcement. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SMOKING BANS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); TAX LAW (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005



328 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Picture This: People Who Really Care About Airline Food

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
ON my last flight -- British Airways, from London to New York -- I did something I had never done before at 35,000 feet. (No, not that.) I took a picture of my airline food. 
 In fact, I took several pictures of my meal, adjusting the light with my window shade, reclining my seat in search of the best possible shot of my white plastic tray. Until you actually try it, you don't realize how hard it is to capture the perfect image of a chicken and mushroom casserole, green salad with cherry tomatoes, hard roll, glass of red wine and chocolate-and-berry cake -- all in the confines of an economy-class seat. 
 What's more, I really wanted the picture to be perfect. After all, this would be my first photo on AirlineMeals.net, ''the world's first and leading site about nothing but airline food.'' As of April 11, this Web site had 11,560 photos of airline meals from 444 carriers. According to the site, there have been more than 2.68 million visits to browse their color photos. 
 My snapshots, and an accompanying review and rating of the meal, would be looked at, and scrutinized, by serious frequent flier foodies from all over the globe. If this was the Zagat's of the air, I would now be the Ruth Reichl of the sky. 
 I first heard of AirlineMeals.net six months ago at a dinner party, when the conversation typically turned to travel. David Telepak, an accountant who takes at least six long-haul flights a year to Asia from England, and considers hopping the Atlantic a mere puddle jump, mentioned the in-flight food site as ''the best industry entertainment for people who travel.'' 
 By the evening's end, all 10 guests were huddled around the host's computer yelling out different airlines to Mr. Telepak, who had quickly become the air traffic controller of cuisine. 
 With a click of the mouse he was serving up a monkfish wrapped in Parma ham presented in first class on a Hong Kong-to-Los Angeles flight by Cathay Pacific, followed by a fish course served on Aeroflot (Moscow to Malta), where the less-than-pleased photographer ranked it a 2 out of a possible 10 points, adding in his review, ''the salmon was the same age as my grandma.'' 
 Since then, I have become addicted to the site (my screensaver is now one of their ''Vintage Meal Pics'' -- a 1950's photo of a well-dressed couple on a Braniff International flight to South America taken from the aisle by a photographer named Brooke). I check the site's media links daily for airline news to see which carriers are making the most horrendous cutbacks. 
 There, you can read how Northwest no longer sells meals on domestic flights (snack boxes only, for $3); that Delta has cut out pillows (no pillows!), stopped selling meals (snacks are free) and upped its alcoholic beverage prices to $5, from $4, on flights within the United States. 
 The most recent news was of Ryanair, the European discount carrier, eliminating headrest covers, seat pockets and window blinds. O.K., I know they are known as a budget airline but still, cutting back darkness? 
 Even more fascinating, I learned from the site that Whitney Houston had to check into a hospital in Paris after coming down with food poisoning on a February trans-Atlantic flight (irritatingly, the airline was not identified by her spokesman), and that a British Airways jet carrying Prime Minister Tony Blair back from a diplomatic trip to Africa last autumn made a 1,450-mile round trip to pick up prawn risotto, asparagus mousse and cheesecake with fresh raspberries for him.
 But it is the site's Forum, or message board, rather than the airport lounge reviews, crew meal photos or extensive gallery of menu photos (including several Air France Concorde menus from the 1990's given a rating of 10 by the collector for their ''French bindings and ornamental leather inlays'') where I spend the majority of my time. Perhaps this is because it is the closest I can get to Marco 't Hart, the 34-year-old founder of airlinemeals.net, who has never responded to any of the many messages I have sent to him via the ''contact me'' link on his site, requesting an interview. 
 Mr. 't Hart has, however, posted the first airline meal photo he ever took, on Oct. 26, 2001, on a flight from Amsterdam-to Istanbul (green pasta with chicken, salad, cream crackers, and a pastry for dessert), as well as information about the origins of his site.
 According to Mr. 't Hart, he had a girlfriend in Turkey from 1999 to 2001 whom he visited every six to eight weeks. Though he writes that he is not ''a food fanatic,'' he explains that he often photographed his meals in Turkey because the food was so different from that served in the West. 
 After one trip his mother asked, ''And what do you eat on the plane?'' On the next flight he took a photo of his airplane meal. A couple of weeks later, bored at work, he searched the Internet for other airplane-meal photos, found about 20 from six airlines, and started to build a Web site -- the earliest version of which is available at airlinemeals.net/museum. 
 The following March, Mr. 't Hart rediscovered the original airline meals page on his site, which he had never updated, and decided to redesign and expand it. He posted messages on some travel Web sites asking anyone flying with a camera to ''please take a picture of your meal and send it to me.'' Two days later, he says, he received his first photo, followed by another, and then another.
 Marco now holds court in the Forum chat room with a cast of regular forum members, including Markus Wechselberger, a 19-year-old student and part-time travel journalist and airline-products consultant in Austria. Mr. Wechselberger discovered the site three years ago and now moderates the Forum, keeping an eye on such interesting threads as, ''Name a dish that would be impossible to prepare on an airplane? Baked Alaska?'' 
 Mr. Wechselberger also handles the site's sales and marketing on a volunteer basis for Mr. 't Hart, whom he described to me in an e-mail message as full of ''personality and ideas.'' 
 ''What has a certain attraction to me,'' Mr. Wechselberger, a self-described gourmet who has uploaded approximately 150 of his own photos for the site, wrote, ''is the logistics which is inevitably bound up with the catering. The excitement of seeing how airlines look after a customer, or not, with one of the simplest things which makes us satisfied.''
 Even industry experts can't help but see the humor in AirlineMeals.net. 
 ''It is totally eccentric,'' says Connie Voigt, who until recently was the director of corporate communications for Gate Gourmet, which annually prepares 530,000 meals for airline passengers worldwide. ''It is the fun side of the business and an unusual way of showing one's passion for airline food. ''
 After my last flight, I focused on writing up my fastidious British Airways airline meal review, following the site's format, which requires reviewers to mention the type of camera they used, the flight's duration and the departure and arrival airports. Sadly, when I went to send the picture, my perfect meal photo suddenly vanished into thin air, much like a plane in the clouds. 
 Because of a technical error, I now have to wait until my next flight to try to win ''Meal of the Week,'' the ultimate AirlineMeals.net honor: your photo posted on the home page for seven whole days!

ALITALIA
Route: Amsterdam to Milan
Photo: Marco/AirlineMeals.net
Class: Coach
Meal: Snack. Juice and two cookies.
Comment: The cookies were even soggier than the juice was! I tried one small piece the size of a raisin and found myself spitting it out and squeezing the rest of the cookies into the empty cup.

ICELANDAIR
Route: Reykjavik to Baltimore
Photo: Eugene Leshchinskiy
Class: Coach
Meal: Dinner. Ham with potato salad, tomato and pickles. A roll with butter, cream cheese and cheesecake.
Comment: When I am flying a six-hour flight, I kinda expect hot food. This stuff was served cold. Also, while the ham was pretty good, the potato salad was drowning in mayo.

AIR2000
Route: London Gatwick to Grenoble, France
Photo: Sam Lambert
Class: Coach
Meal: Breakfast. Bacon, sausage, egg, potatoes, tomato, roll, butter.
Comment: A very delicious meal. The sausage was especially good.

AMERICAN AIRLINES
Route: Miami to Boston
Photo: Dan Wilson
Class: First
Meal: Dinner. Teriyaki salmon, rice, green beans, salad.
Comment: The rice was O.K., the salmon very dry and the salad was too lemony. Dessert was lemon cookies. A quick glance at the ingredients disabused me of any notion that they were edible.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 17 about a Web site that shows photographs of airline food misstated the number of meals prepared by Gate Gourmet, an airline catering company. It says it produces an average of 534,000 meals per day, not per year. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Thomas de Bruin/AirlineMeals.net) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PORK (72%) Airlines and Airplanes; Computers and the Internet; Food

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Airlinemeals.Net

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: Jennifer Conlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); HONG KONG (71%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); ENGLAND (58%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



329 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Karen Armstrong, Aron White

 BODY:
Karen Ellen Armstrong and Aron Joshua White are to be married today by Rabbi Cheryl Rosenstein at the Toll House Ranch in Caliente, Calif. 
 The bride, 45, is a freelance theatrical stage manager who has worked on Broadway and Off Broadway productions, including the recent ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' ''Dinner at Eight'' and ''Via Dolorosa.'' 
She graduated magna cum laude from California State University at Bakersfield. She is the daughter of Donna Buchanan Armstrong and Dr. Frank Armstrong, both of Bakersfield. The bride's father, a retired internist, had a private practice there. Her mother, also retired, was a private duty nurse in Bakersfield.
 The bridegroom, 48, oversees the iron shop in the scenery construction department of the Metropolitan Opera in Manhattan. He graduated cum laude from Boston University. He is the son of Anita White of Flushing, Queens, and the late Sidney J. White. The bridegroom's mother retired as a librarian at Floral Park High School in New York. His father was a professor of business and economics at Queensborough Community College in Bayside.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); THEATER (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); OPERA (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



330 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Perspective; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: We're Rich, You're Not. End of Story.

BYLINE: By BRUCE BAWER. 
Bruce Bawer, a freelance writer based in Oslo, reports frequently on social and cultural issues.

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
THE received wisdom about economic life in the Nordic countries is easily summed up: people here are incomparably affluent, with all their needs met by an efficient welfare state. They believe it themselves. Yet the reality -- as this Oslo-dwelling American can attest, and as some recent studies confirm -- is not quite what it appears. 
 Even as the Scandinavian establishment peddles this dubious line, it serves up a picture of the United States as a nation divided, inequitably, among robber barons and wage slaves, not to mention armies of the homeless and unemployed. It does this to keep people believing that their social welfare system, financed by lofty income taxes, provides far more in the way of economic protections and amenities than the American system. Protections, yes --but some Norwegians might question the part about amenities. 
 In Oslo, library collections are woefully outdated, and public swimming pools are in desperate need of maintenance. News reports describe serious shortages of police officers and school supplies. When my mother-in-law went to an emergency room recently, the hospital was out of cough medicine. Drug addicts crowd downtown Oslo streets, as The Los Angeles Times recently reported, but applicants for methadone programs are put on a months-long waiting list. 
 In Norway, the standard line is that there must be some mistake, that such things simply should not happen in ''the world's richest country.'' Why do Norwegians have such a wealthy self-image? Partly because, compared with their grandparents (who lived before the discovery of North Sea oil), they are rich. Few, however, question whether it really is the world's richest country. 
 After I moved here six years ago, I quickly noticed that Norwegians live more frugally than Americans do. They hang on to old appliances and furniture that we would throw out. And they drive around in wrecks. In 2003, when my partner and I took his teenage brother to New York -- his first trip outside of Europe -- he stared boggle-eyed at the cars in the Newark Airport parking lot, as mesmerized as Robin Williams in a New York grocery store in ''Moscow on the Hudson.''
 One image in particular sticks in my mind. In a Norwegian language class, my teacher illustrated the meaning of the word matpakke -- ''packed lunch'' -- by reaching into her backpack and pulling out a hero sandwich wrapped in wax paper. It was her lunch. She held it up for all to see.
 Yes, teachers are underpaid everywhere. But in Norway the matpakke is ubiquitous, from classroom to boardroom. In New York, an office worker might pop out at lunchtime to a deli; in Paris, she might enjoy quiche and a glass of wine at a brasserie. In Norway, she will sit at her desk with a sandwich from home. 
 It is not simply a matter of tradition, or a preference for a basic, nonmaterialistic life. Dining out is just too pricey in a country where teachers, for example, make about $50,000 a year before taxes. Even the humblest of meals -- a large pizza delivered from Oslo's most popular pizza joint -- will run from $34 to $48, including delivery fee and a 25 percent value added tax. 
 Not that groceries are cheap, either. Every weekend, armies of Norwegians drive to Sweden to stock up at supermarkets that are a bargain only by Norwegian standards. And this isn't a great solution, either, since gasoline (in this oil-exporting nation) costs more than $6 a gallon.
 All this was illuminated last year in a study by a Swedish research organization, Timbro, which compared the gross domestic products of the 15 European Union members (before the 2004 expansion) with those of the 50 American states and the District of Columbia. (Norway, not being a member of the union, was not included.)
 After adjusting the figures for the different purchasing powers of the dollar and euro, the only European country whose economic output per person was greater than the United States average was the tiny tax haven of Luxembourg, which ranked third, just behind Delaware and slightly ahead of Connecticut. 
 The next European country on the list was Ireland, down at 41st place out of 66; Sweden was 14th from the bottom (after Alabama), followed by Oklahoma, and then Britain, France, Finland, Germany and Italy. The bottom three spots on the list went to Spain, Portugal and Greece. 
 Alternatively, the study found, if the E.U. was treated as a single American state, it would rank fifth from the bottom, topping only Arkansas, Montana, West Virginia and Mississippi. In short, while Scandinavians are constantly told how much better they have it than Americans, Timbro's statistics suggest otherwise. So did a paper by a Swedish economics writer, Johan Norberg. 
 Contrasting ''the American dream'' with ''the European daydream,'' Mr. Norberg described the difference: ''Economic growth in the last 25 years has been 3 percent per annum in the U.S., compared to 2.2 percent in the E.U. That means that the American economy has almost doubled, whereas the E.U. economy has grown by slightly more than half. The purchasing power in the U.S. is $36,100 per capita, and in the E.U. $26,000 -- and the gap is constantly widening.'' 
 The one detail in Timbro's study that didn't feel right to me was the placement of Scandinavian countries near the top of the list and Spain near the bottom. My own sense of things is that Spaniards live far better than Scandinavians. In Norwegian pubs, for example, anyone rich or insane enough to order, say, a gin and tonic is charged about $15 for a few teaspoons of gin at the bottom of a glass of tonic; in Spain, the drinks are dirt-cheap and the bartender will pour the gin up to the rim unless you say ''stop.'' 
 In late March, another study, this one from KPMG, the international accounting and consulting firm, cast light on this paradox. It indicated that when disposable income was adjusted for cost of living, Scandinavians were the poorest people in Western Europe. Danes had the lowest adjusted income, Norwegians the second lowest, Swedes the third. Spain and Portugal, with two of Europe's least regulated economies, led the list. 
 Most recently, the Danish Ministry of Finance released a study comparing the income available for private consumption in 30 countries. Norway did somewhat better here than in the KPMG study, lagging behind most of Western Europe but at least beating out Ireland and Portugal. 
 The thrust, however, was to confirm Timbro's and Mr. Norberg's picture of American and European wealth. While the private-consumption figure for the United States was $32,900 per person, the countries of Western Europe (again excepting Luxembourg, at $29,450) ranged between $13,850 and $23,500, with Norway at $18,350.
 Meanwhile, the references to Norway as ''the world's richest country'' keep on coming. An April 2 article in Dagsavisen, a major Oslo daily, asked: How is it that ''in the world's richest country we're tearing down social services that were built up when Norway was much poorer?'' 
 Obviously, this is one misconception that won't be put to rest by a measly think-tank study or two.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Packing a Lunch -- In nominally rich Norway, above, most people bring their lunch to work. In Spain, left, widely regarded as impoverished, most eat out. (Photo by Heidi Wideroe/Getty Images for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Armand/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); DRUG POLICY (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); LIBRARIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%) NORWAY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



331 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: April 17, 2005; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1307 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	107	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 2		1	REVENGE OF THE SITH, by Matthew Stover. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) A new ''Star Wars'' novel, featuring Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi.		 	 	 	 3		1	YA-YAS IN BLOOM, by Rebecca Wells. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The further adventures of members of the Ya-Ya sisterhood.		 	 	 	 4	2	7	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An F.B.I. agent who is investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	 	 5	3	2	SATURDAY, by Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) A day in the life of a successful London neurosurgeon, troubled by 9/11 and the impending war in Iraq, who comes face to face with senseless violence.		 	 	 	 6	4	5	THE RISING, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $25.99.) The Prince of Darkness chooses a Romanian woman to be the mother of the Antichrist.		 	 	 	 7	5	12	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	 	 8	6	3	WITH NO ONE AS WITNESS, by Elizabeth George. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley and his colleagues hunt for a serial killer. 		 	 	 	 9	8	5	IMPOSSIBLE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.		 	 	 	 10		1	THE SERPENT ON THE CROWN, by Elizabeth Peters. (Morrow, $25.95.) Having returned to Egypt in 1922, the archaeologist Amelia Peabody and her family become embroiled in treachery and intrigue.		 	 	 	 11	7	80	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died trying to rescue a girl finds that all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 12	13	3	EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE, by Jonathan Safran Foer. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.95.) A 9-year-old boy searches New York City for the lock that fits a key belonging to his father, who died on Sept. 11.		 	 	 	 13	10	9	PREP, by Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $21.95.) A scholarship student encounters a world of privilege at an expensive boarding school in Massachusetts.		 	 	 	 14		1	HARD TRUTH, by Nevada Barr. (Putnam, $24.95.) The national park ranger Anna Pigeon investigates the misdeeds of a paranoid religious cult.		 	 	 	 15	9	4	COLD SERVICE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) The Boston private eye Spenser seeks revenge on Ukrainian gangsters after his friend Hawk is critically injured by a sniper's bullets.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	12	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 2	2	4	A DEADLY GAME, by Catherine Crier with Cole Thompson. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $27.95.) A former judge and current Court TV analyst looks at the Scott Peterson case.		 	 	 	 3	6	3	ON BULL----, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	 4	4	3	CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS, by Kurt Eichenwald. (Broadway, $26.) The spectacular rise and fall of Enron, as reported by a correspondent for The New York Times.		 	 	 	 5	3	5	BLOOD BROTHER, by Anne Bird. (ReganBooks/ HarperCollins, $25.95.) The long-lost half sister of Scott Peterson explains why she is convinced he is guilty of murder.		 	 	 	 6	11	28	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook. 		 	 	 	 7	5	5	PLAN B, by Anne Lamott. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of ''Traveling Mercies'' meditates on personal and political matters and on the spiritual life.		 	 	 	 8	7	8	MEN IN BLACK, by Mark R. Levin. (Regnery, $27.95.) A conservative commentator enumerates ways in which ''the Supreme Court is destroying America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 9	9	14	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail. 		 	 	 	 10	10	12	GOD'S POLITICS, by Jim Wallis. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) An evangelical Christian argues that Democrats must ''take back the faith'' and not allow conservative Republicans to hijack the Bible. (+)		 	 	 	 11	8	7	JUICED, by Jose Canseco. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) The former slugger talks about his life in baseball and, especially, his use of steroids.		 	 	 	 12	14	2	THREE NIGHTS IN AUGUST, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A three-game series in 2003 between the Cubs and the Cardinals, as seen through the eyes of Tony La Russa, the St. Louis manager. 		 	 	 	 13	13	3	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $25.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly being moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	 	 14		1	BREAK, BLOW, BURN, by Camille Paglia. (Pantheon, $20.) The noted cultural commentator analyzes more than 40 short works in verse, from Shakespeare's ''Sonnet 73'' to Joni Mitchell's ''Woodstock.''		 	 	 	 15		1	*THE END OF POVERTY, by Jeffrey D. Sachs. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) The economist examines the nature of development and proposes ways in which the richest countries can help the poorest.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended April 2, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

A GREAT IMPROVISATION: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America, by Stacy Schiff. (Holt, $30.) A wise account of Benjamin Franklin's diplomatic brilliance, revealed in Paris at 70.

OMAHA BLUES: A Memory Loop, by Joseph Lelyveld. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A memoir of a complicated childhood by a former executive editor of The Times.

TOWELHEAD, by Alicia Erian. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A bluntly erotic novel whose narrator's budding sexuality gets her driven from home.

A LAND OF GHOSTS: The Braided Lives of People and the Forest in Far Western Amazonia, by David G. Campbell. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) Exciting people, places and observations.

ALIBI, by Joseph Kanon. (Holt, $26.) An unsentimental historical thriller set in Venice, where uncovering the past leads inexorably to murder.

THE POSITION, by Meg Wolitzer. (Scribner, $24.) Love's surprises and a mean comic touch drive a novel where four children's minds are bent by a how-to sex book starring their parents.

PONZI'S SCHEME: The True Story of a Financial Legend, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Random House, $25.95.) The strangely innocent criminal doings of a man who became a name for fraud.

SPLENDID SOLUTION: Jonas Salk and the Conquest of Polio, by Jeffrey Kluger. (Putnam, $25.95.) POLIO: An American Story, by David M. Oshinsky. (Oxford University, $30.) The scientific and bureaucratic achievements of the creator of the first successful polio vaccine, a hero almost as good as he looked in 1955.

MIMI AND TOUTOU'S BIG ADVENTURE: The Bizarre Battle of Lake Tanganyika, by Giles Foden. (Knopf, $24.) How Britain hauled two 40-foot boats 2,500 miles to attack German boats in Africa in World War I. This happened!

MALRAUX: A Life, by Olivier Todd. (Knopf, $35.) The life and times of a huge literary figure who was minister of culture in the Fifth French Republic of Charles de Gaulle; since his death in 1976 he has suffered debunking as a fraud.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ESPIONAGE (72%); CULTS & SECTS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (62%); DEATHS (60%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (88%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); MITCH ALBOM (55%); JAMES PATTERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) IRAQ (70%); UNITED STATES (67%); EGYPT (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



332 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: In Earthquake Country, Racing Against Nature to Replace a Damaged Bridge

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 16 

 BODY:
About 140,000 motorists play a game of seismic roulette here every day, slapping down a $3 toll in a bet that they will make it across the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and back before the earth shakes it to pieces.
 Damaged in an earthquake in 1989, the eastern span of the four-and-a-half-mile bridge was deemed unlikely to withstand another major jolt. More than 15 years later, a project to replace the patched-up section is mired in budget woes, political squabbling over its design and, most recently, assertions that some welders had cut corners.
 Officials from the Federal Highway Administration began inspecting the welds for defects this week, and the F.B.I. is investigating possible criminal wrongdoing. 
 Experts warn that the danger persists of an earthquake inflicting even worse damage than the 1989 earthquake, which was centered in Loma Prieta, 60 miles south of here in the Santa Cruz Mountains. ''This has been a race against time from the get-go,'' said Steve Heminger, executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, the Bay Area transit agency. ''That fact seems to be all too often forgotten.'' 
 In 2003, the United States Geological Survey estimated that there was a 62 percent probability of a major earthquake in the Bay Area within 30 years. The most recent projections by state officials say it will be at least seven years before the new span opens to traffic, and, if financing and design problems are not worked out soon, many more years beyond that. 
 Though not as famous as the Golden Gate Bridge, to the north, the Bay Bridge is among the busiest in the nation, linking the San Francisco peninsula to the heavily populated mainland to the east. 
 Almost immediately after its opening in 1936, the Bay Bridge was handling traffic that had not been expected for at least 15 years. State officials have estimated that 140,000 round trips are made on the bridge each day, with those heading west required to pay the toll. Like many people familiar with the risks a big quake poses, David P. Schwartz, an earthquake geologist with the Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., said he avoids crossing the bridge. 
 ''We fully expect that the next major Bay Area earthquake will be in much closer than Loma Prieta and on one of the major urban faults,'' Dr. Schwartz said. ''If you happen to be crossing the Bay Bridge at the time of the next close-in Bay Area earthquake, and it hasn't been retrofitted, there is a very good likelihood there will be another major failure to it.''
 But Mr. Heminger, who commutes by subway from his home in San Francisco to his office in Oakland, said public anxiety over the bogged-down project has not been what one might expect. 
 ''I think part of it is that Californians live in denial about earthquakes,'' Mr. Heminger said. ''If we thought about them all the time, we would move to Montana.''
 A spokeswoman for the California Department of Transportation, which owns the bridge and is overseeing construction of the new span, said the existing structure had been reinforced to withstand a moderate earthquake. Asked if it could survive more significant shaking, the spokeswoman, Lauren E. Wonder, said, ''That's why we are building this new structure.''
 In the 1989 quake, a 50-foot-long section of the eastern span's upper deck collapsed onto the lower deck, killing a driver. The truss-and-cantilever eastern span, which runs two and a quarter miles from Yerba Buena Island to Oakland, is more vulnerable to earthquakes than is the western span, a suspension design that runs from the island to San Francisco. The western span was retrofitted, or strengthened, after 1989 and will not need to be replaced.
 Bruce A. Bolt, emeritus professor of seismology at the University of California, Berkeley, who serves on a state seismic advisory board, said the intention was to make the new span able to withstand an earthquake equivalent to the one in 1906, which was centered near San Francisco and ruptured nearly 300 miles of the San Andreas Fault. Scientists disagree on the magnitude of that quake, with estimates of 7.7 to 8.3. 
 Dr. Bolt said he does not shy away from driving on the bridge but said he was alarmed at how long it was taking to complete the new span. He said his biggest concern was that the span might not be in place before a quake hits one of the Bay Area's two most worrisome faults, the San Andreas and the Hayward, which cuts beneath Oakland. 
 The last big quake on the Hayward fault was in 1868, and many scientists believe it is due to fracture before the better known San Andreas.
 ''If you get another 1906-type earthquake, the bridge would fail in a way that people would be killed and the bridge would be out of use for a long time, maybe a year,'' Dr. Bolt said. ''The economy of this region depends on this bridge.''
 After the 1989 quake, which registered a magnitude of 6.9, the California Department of Transportation identified 750 highway bridges and seven state-owned toll bridges that needed to be strengthened or replaced. Hundreds of bridges were added to the statewide inventory after an earthquake in 1994 in Northridge, a suburb of Los Angeles.
 A report last December by the state auditor said work had been completed on all but 18 of the 2,194 highway bridges selected for strengthening and all but two of the toll bridges. The remaining structures, it said, required ''more complex retrofit and replacement work.'' 
 In the case of the Bay Bridge, however, Dr. Bolt and other experts said the seismic difficulties were worked out long ago. Since the mid-1990's, the biggest problem has been the politics of building one of California's largest public works, estimated to cost $6.2 billion.
 ''I never would have dreamt of such delays,'' said Dr. Bolt, who recounted a long list of political trip-ups over the years, including efforts by Willie L. Brown, the former San Francisco mayor, to have the new span realigned to preserve development opportunities on Yerba Buena Island, and Mayor Jerry Brown of Oakland wanting the most attractive segment of the new span moved closer to Oakland from San Francisco. 
 At one point, the Navy, which owns part of Yerba Buena Island, refused to allow the new span to be anchored there and threatened to arrest state workers if they tried to drill test bores, Dr. Bolt recalled. The Navy said the span would ruin historic buildings and would create noise and vibration problems. The dispute was settled when officials in Washington intervened. 
 Most of the bickering, though, has been about money. Hearings in Sacramento are scheduled next week on what will be the third round of legislation to pay for the project. Southern California lawmakers and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger want Bay Area drivers to pay for the work through higher tolls. Northern Californians say the bridge is state-owned and therefore the financial burden should be shared statewide. 
 In a bid to save money in a tight budget, Mr. Schwarzenegger last year rejected plans to include a self-anchored suspension segment near Yerba Buena Island, an unusual feature selected by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission and favored by Bay Area politicians for its elegance and distinctiveness. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger said the design was too costly, but studies have differed on whether reverting to a simpler elevated roadway would save money or cause more expensive delays. Legislation introduced this week in Sacramento would preserve the suspension design, while seeking a compromise on how to pay for it.
 Adding to the delays, some of the work on the new span's foundation has been halted so welds can be inspected. The contractor, KFM Joint Venture, and state transportation officials have denied assertions by some welders of substandard work, reported last week in The Oakland Tribune.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Earthquake Hits Southern California
 MARICOPA, Calif., April 16 (AP) -- A earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 struck Southern California on Saturday and could be felt in downtown Los Angeles, about 85 miles southeast of the epicenter. Local officials said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.
 The quake struck at 12:18 p.m. and was centered about 13 miles east of Maricopa and 25 miles south-southwest of Bakersfield, according to a preliminary report from the United States Geological Survey.


GRAPHIC: Photos: New piers rise next to the eastern span of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, above, a section of which collapsed, below, during a major earthquake in October 1989. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
(Photo by Associated Press)Chart/Map: ''The Back and Forth on Bridge Reconstruction''Experts say the eastern section of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge may not withstand another major earthquake. Yet its reconstruction, begun in 2000 and originally estimated to be a six-year project, has been hampered by unexpected costs, objections to the design, and safety concerns about the construction so far.BRIDGE SECTIONSTransition -- Foundation started.Suspension -- Not begun.The self-anchored single-tower suspension span is the stylistic centerpiece of the design. But the construction bid exceeded the states budget, so lawmakers are rethinking the project.Skyway -- More than half completed.Touchdown -- Not begun.Geofill -- Complete.Diagram of the San Francisco-Oakland bridge showing the construction of the eastern section.Map of California highlighting San Francisco-Oakland bridge and Yerba Buena Island: Yerba Buena Island, where the two bridge sections meet.(Sources by Metropolitan Transportation Commission
NewBayBridge.org
 California Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (91%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (97%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



333 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Marlins Read the Situation, And Then Follow Through

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
WHO knew that these guys read the newspaper, this newspaper at that? But Florida Marlins pitchers have seemingly taken to heart a comment made in these pages two weeks ago.
 The key to the Marlins' season, we suggested in a season preview, was their pitching: ''A.J. Burnett, Josh Beckett and Dontrelle Willis have to take charge and pull Al Leiter along in a show of pitching force.''
 It's only two weeks into the season, but talk about a show of force. Marlins pitchers are blowing everybody away. 
 In the first 10 games, before yesterday, Willis pitched two shutouts, a five-hitter and a three-hitter; Beckett threw a five-hit shutout and allowed only two hits in working six innings of another shutout; and Burnett gave up two runs in another complete game. 
 While the pitching staff had pitched four complete games and four shutouts, the 15 other National League teams had pitched a total of three complete games and nine shutouts. The Marlins had three complete-game shutouts; the rest of the league had two.
 The Marlins had a 1.34 earned run average. Next best was Milwaukee's 2.85. The Marlins' opponents' batting average was .193. Next lowest was .221 against the Mets. 
 Not that the Marlins can expect this sort of dominance to continue, but they have waited patiently for their young pitchers to step up, and it seems they have started this season with giant steps. 
 Speaking of Beckett and Burnett just before the season, Manager Jack McKeon said: ''Both of these guys have to step up. This potential stuff, sooner or later you have to do it.'' 
 Then, speaking strictly of Burnett, he added: ''I think he has a different mind-set, not thinking he has to strike everyone out. When a guy comes up, they ballyhoo their power arm. They think the only way they're going to be recognized is to be a strikeout pitcher. We're trying to get him to be economical with his pitches. Get them to hit the ball.''
 In Burnett's last start, against Philadelphia last Tuesday, he pitched a complete game, struck out only three and threw only 103 pitches. If McKeon could package that performance, he would bring it out every time Burnett pitches. 
 McKeon would do the same with the performances of Willis and Beckett. In his shutouts against Washington and the Phillies, Willis threw 97 and 114 pitches. Beckett used 110 pitches in shutting out the Nationals.
 Leiter, however, undermined himself in his first two starts, each a Marlins loss. Armed with a history of throwing a lot of pitches, Leiter, a 39-year-old left-hander, threw 95 pitches in five and two-thirds innings against Atlanta and 114 in five innings against the Phillies.
 Leiter pitched for the 1997 team that won the World Series. The Marlins, a 1993 expansion team, won the World Series a second time in 2003. Can they do it again this year?
 ''With this team, unlike the '97 team, there's no wonder whether they can do it or not,'' Leiter said. ''You're told and you talk about how good you are. Almost everybody in this room was here two years ago. They know what it takes. They know the feeling. They know what's needed to be done to achieve it. They've done it. It's not only a talented group of guys. It's a group that experienced what we play for.''
 Unlike the 1997 owner, H. Wayne Huizenga, Jeffrey Loria, the current owner, didn't decimate his championship team. ''We didn't break up the team,'' he said. ''We didn't run and hide. We made commitments and we stuck to them.''
 The most unlikely commitment was the $52 million Loria gave Carlos Delgado, a left-handed-hitting first baseman for a predominantly right-handed lineup. The move was economically uncharacteristic of Loria.
 ''That changed the lineup,'' Loria said. ''It's changed the whole complexion of how people have to pitch to us. That's why we did it. Also because of my commitment to continue to make things better here, which we've done since Day 1.''
 The Marlins won the two World Series as a wild-card team. These Marlins are not prepared to settle and try it again as the wild card. ''No one comes out of spring training saying they want to win the wild card,'' Delgado said. ''Everybody will tell you they want to win their division.'' But when it was pointed out to him that a wild card had won the last three World Series, he said: ''It's a crazy game. That's why we love it so much.''
 Willis, like Delgado, said he preferred finishing first but acknowledged that ''the goal is to play in October.''
 ''There's definitely been a coincidence,'' said Willis, who at 23 is the youngest of the starters. ''It helps because when you're the wild card, you have that last month as a battle because there are so many other teams battling for the wild card as opposed to one team being the front-runner and winning their division. The last couple years there were about eight teams going for that final playoff spot. That's fun.''

Tickets Are Going Pricey
 Fans are not only disregarding the so-called steroid scandal by flocking to games, very possibly in record numbers this season, but also by paying sky-high prices for tickets. According to TicketsNow.com, a Web site that obtains tickets from brokers and sells the tickets online, fans who wanted to attend season openers paid prices well above the top ticket price for some teams' games. Some examples: 
 Red Sox, $3,000
 Yankees, $2,250
 Nationals, $720
 Cubs, $500
 Royals, $152

Reinforcements Wanted, Already
 The Atlanta Braves fortified their pitching staff for a run at their 14th consecutive division championship, but they also had to fill two holes in the outfield, so they signed two veterans, Brian Jordan, who had played for them before, and Raul Mondesi, who had a weird season last year with Pittsburgh and Anaheim. 
 Before Friday night, Jordan and Mondesi had not had the hitting touch they had demonstrated in their careers, and their start to the season had to leave the Braves wondering if they had a Plan B lying around somewhere.
 Mondesi, in his first seven games, batted .154, drove in two runs, struck out a team-high seven times and had a .185 on-base percentage and a .231 slugging percentage. In eight games, Jordan batted .167 with a home run, four R.B.I., a .242 on-base percentage and a .267 slugging percentage. That kind of production wasn't likely to win any division titles.
 But against Philadelphia on Friday night, Jordan drove in three runs and Mondesi slugged two home runs.

Who's on First? Niekro the Younger
 In the biography of Joe Niekro in the 1986 Yankees media guide, the members of his family who are listed include son Lance. The next player in the guide is Lance's uncle, Phil. Lance was 7 years old that year.
 Today Lance is 26, and like his father and uncle before him, a major leaguer, with the Giants. 
 ''He was one of the last players sent down in spring training,'' his father said. ''He played one game in Fresno and was called up the next day when Moises Alou went on the disabled list. I called him Friday to tell him how my mother was doing, and he called me an hour later and told me he was going to San Francisco. I was thrilled. I told my mom, who's in the hospital, and she just about jumped out of bed.''
 Joe, whose 22-year career ended at the age of 43 in 1988, said Lance's presence in the majors didn't make him feel old. ''It makes me very, very proud,'' he said. ''Watching the Giants game on ESPN and seeing him play first base and seeing 'Niekro' on his back made me proud.'' 
 Lance is the first Niekro to play in the majors who doesn't throw a knuckleball, though he threw it when he pitched in high school. 
 ''He had a pretty good knuckleball,'' his father said. ''His junior year he was 11-1. But he decided if he was going to play professional baseball, it would be playing every day. I agreed with that.''
 A .311 minor league hitter despite what his father called freakish injuries, Lance played with the Giants briefly at the end of the 2003 season, then spent all of last season in the minors. Joe said he didn't know what the Giants would do with Lance when their manager's son comes off the disabled list, but Joe said, ''He's definitely their first baseman of the future.''

Trying to Be Practical
 The commissioner's office has been promoting its minor league steroids testing program, but it turns out that not all minor leaguers have been tested from the start of the program in 2001. Players in the four domestic rookie leagues and in the Dominican Republic rookie league were not tested until last year. Players in the Venezuelan rookie league will be tested beginning this year.
 Rob Manfred, the executive who oversees the testing program, said baseball hadn't hidden that fact, though little, if anything, was said during the first three years of the testing program.
 Manfred said that when he debated Fernando Mateo, the president of Hispanics Across America, before last season on the issue of testing in the Dominican league, ''I said publicly we don't test in the domestic rookie leagues.'' 
 ''I made that argument in terms of making the point why we weren't in the Dominican summer league,'' he said.
 Why hadn't baseball tested in the four domestic and two Latin rookie leagues?
 ''We started with the players closest to the major leagues and worked down to the rookie leagues and the Dominican and Venezuela,'' Manfred said. ''It's a question of how much you can expand at the same time. We did 5,000 minor league tests last year.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Raul Mondesi has been slow to find his hitting form after coming to the Braves this spring following a season in Pittsburgh and Anaheim. (Photo by Rick Stewart/Getty Images)
The Marlins' Dontrelle Willis has thrown two shutouts this season to lead a pitching staff that has had a strong start. (Photo by Andre Pichette/Associated Press)
 The Giants' rookie first baseman, Lance Niekro, is the son of the former major league knuckleball pitcher Joe Niekro. (Photo by Lucy Nicholson/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA MARLINS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); NEW YORK METS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



334 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4261 words

HEADLINE: Alone, Again 

BYLINE: By Alex Witchel. 
Alex Witchel is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
It was, oh, around 4:30 in the afternoon, and maybe the third time that Barbara Cook and Michael Feinstein were taking it from the top, slogging through a duet of ''Cheek to Cheek'' for their performance that night. A few musicians were in the room with them, while a few took a break outside.
 ''How does a chick singer change a light bulb?'' one asked. ''She gets up on a table and has the rest of the world revolve around her.''
 Laughter all around. 
 In an era when any 20-year-old with a sense of entitlement and an overachieving sound engineer can call herself a diva, the joke certainly has currency. But when it comes to this particular chick singer, well, it's not even close. A pro from the old school who puts the song first (''She's not interested half as much in Barbara Cook as she is in Harold Arlen,'' Stephen Sondheim says), she is now, at 77, at the top of her game. Cook's voice is remarkably unchanged from 1958, when she won the Tony Award for playing Marian the Librarian in ''The Music Man.'' A few high notes aside, it is, eerily, as rich and clear as ever. As Marvin Hamlisch says, ''With Barbara, you close your eyes, and she's back to being the ingenue.''
 Over the last 50 years or so, the ingenue has grown into an artist who can play a 90-seat club like the Cafe Carlyle in New York, where she is now through May 27, as effortlessly as the 17,000-seat Hollywood Bowl, where she will perform with Deborah Voigt and Dianne Reeves in July. She has recorded 36 albums (her latest, ''Count Your Blessings,'' was nominated for a Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album Grammy Award; she lost to Rod Stewart). She sings regularly with the mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne and has performed for the queen of England, most recently to open a new opera house in Cardiff. Next January, the Metropolitan Opera will present her in concert, the first by a nonoperatic performer since Vladimir Horowitz played there in 1986. 
 Cook has also become one of the premier interpreters of Sondheim's work, known for its technical intricacies, in spite of the fact that she has never learned to read music. It is her perfect pitch for a song's emotional resonance that sets her apart, and in the master classes she teaches around the world, most often at the Juilliard School, she spends much of her time waving off the students' vocal perfection to get them to harvest the pain and joy beneath the notes. ''What is this song about?'' she will ask, to an often blank stare. In one class, caught on tape for ''60 Minutes,'' a young woman with a lovely voice repeatedly tries ''Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man,'' from ''Showboat.'' ''Honest to God,'' Cook finally tells her, ''you do not have the life experience to really, really sing this song.''
 Cook can sing them all. If she had a business card, it might read: dramatic theater singer. specialty: heartbreak. In a life that has been marked by alcoholism, depression, divorce and obesity, among other sorrows, she is now coping with one of her biggest losses. Wally Harper, her musical director and accompanist, who resuscitated her career in the mid-70's, died in October. For the previous three decades, they were one of the most recognizable duos in American theater: Harper, brittle and elegant at the piano, his expression vaguely surprised, vaguely amused, as if Noel Coward had just told him a joke, and Cook, feet planted square on the stage beside him, the Mother Earth of the American songbook. The combination could be thrilling as midnight or consoling as dawn. When Cook invariably laid down her mike to sing her encore, enfolding the audience in her own brand of lullaby, no one listened more intently than Harper. It was he who helped get Cook working again after her drinking kept her unemployed for years. So it was particularly difficult for Cook that when she stopped for good in 1977, Harper did not, and his death at 63 from heart failure, she says, may have been precipitated by alcohol abuse. 
 Although their relationship was never romantic, it was certainly a professional marriage, and she has begun the arduous process of finding other collaborators. Pianists are hard enough, but the more crucial role of musical director, the person to choose her material and arrange it, as Harper did, is even harder to fill.
 On a January afternoon, Cook arrived at the Van Wezel Performing Arts Hall in Sarasota, Fla., not only to sing but also to accept an award from Narsad, the National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, for speaking out about her experience with depression. She hadn't written a speech and wasn't sure what she was going to say, but for her, that was the least of it. Jeff Harris, a pianist who has worked regularly with Maureen McGovern, among others, was accompanying her for the first time, and Peter Donovan, her usual bass player, was there, too. There was just no bass available for him to play until 6:00. Feinstein, who was the headliner for the night (Cook would do a set of her own before they went cheek to cheek) was suffering from tracheitis, and his music was being scored down as he sipped tea and croaked quietly along with Cook, who burst with energy as he wilted, desperate for bed. 
 Once they finished, Cook left the rehearsal room and headed to the stage for her sound check with Jerry Kravat, her longtime manager, in tow. Kravat, who likes to tell stories from his days as the entertainment director of Monaco -- the principality -- calmly watched her anxiety escalate as curtain time neared and Harris started playing the piano. Kravat hadn't heard the musician's joke earlier, but as far as this chick singer goes, he knew that this was as crazy as it got, and he'd seen it all before. She asked repeatedly for a mike stand, and when a stagehand brought one, she looked surprised.
 ''I don't need a mike stand after all, I'm out of my mind,'' she said. The stagehand, entirely unsurprised, took it away. She called over the stage manager: ''I need to set the lights to a concert dark. I don't like singing to a black expanse, that's not people.'' He nodded. But checking the sound onstage wasn't enough; she took her mike out into the audience to check it there too. 
 Would she have been calmer if Harper had been with her? Kravat shook his head. ''No, it's always the same,'' he said. ''But at least today, she hasn't cried about Wally. That's something.''
 When Cook was next seen, onstage for her set, she was back to herself, more or less. She wasn't quite at ease with Harris, and the numbers sometimes felt rushed. But the audience loved her and Feinstein, who had recovered on schedule. If anyone dreaded the evening's momentum being stalled by a downbeat speech when the award was presented, they were happily disappointed.
 Cook looked at the chunk of crystal in her hands and her grin started slow and grew wide. ''Well, I'm just sorry my former husband isn't here to see me get the mental health award,'' she said. ''Thank you!'' 
Barbara Cook lives in Manhattan, in an apartment on Riverside Drive with views of the river and the park. The living room is packed with paintings, pottery and sculpture, including a woven wood Frank Gehry chair, and the dining room has red walls and bursting bookshelves and a long table at which Cook often serves dinner for 10 or 12. The place has a warm, cheerful feel.
 When I visited on a winter afternoon, Cook was dressed in black, as usual. As she sat down on the couch to talk about her life, she spoke with the same candor she brings to her music. One strength of her singing is the ease with which she accepts imperfection -- a break in the voice, say -- and uses it to the song's benefit. As she has in her life, she has learned not only to embrace a weakness but also to celebrate it.
 She was born in Atlanta in 1927, the older of two girls. Her father was a traveling hat salesman, her mother an operator for Southern Bell. When Cook was 3, she contracted whooping cough; her 18-month-old sister, Patricia, had pneumonia, caught the whooping cough, too, and died. ''Interestingly enough, until I first went to therapy, I always used to say I gave her whooping cough,'' Cook said. ''Not 'She caught it' but 'I gave it to her.' You know, we didn't have antibiotics in those days. And my sister didn't even die in the hospital; she died at home. So you can't say, 'If the doctor had done this, if the nurse had done that.' It's your responsibility. 
 ''But what I took away from it was the idea that I had killed my sister. After that, my parents split. And my mother was saying, 'If your sister hadn't died, your father wouldn't have left.' And since I killed my sister, that was my fault, too. Whenever I would see him, my mother would have me beg him to come back. And of course, I failed at that.'' 
 Cook says her mother never pushed her to perform, though as a child she sang at the Elks Club, the U.S.O. and on the phone to her father, when he called from the road. In 1945, she graduated from Girls High in Atlanta, where she remembers the other kids making fun of her because she wore the same clothes to school all the time and didn't have the money to join a sorority. She worked for three years as a typist before moving to New York City. 
 Actually, her mother thought they were going for a visit. ''I started packing everything I owned,'' Cook recalled. ''I said, 'I'm going to stay and see what I can do with my singing.' I think she didn't really believe me. We stayed two weeks. And I was standing on the platform when the train pulled out, she was on the way home and now as an older person, as a mother, I can see that she must have been devastated. Because we were so close, too close. I slept with my mother until I came to New York. Slept in the same bed with her. That's just, it's wrong. But to me, it was the norm. Don't forget, she lost a child. I was it. As far as she was concerned, we were one person. There was no separation, no boundaries. She owned me. And thank God, I am a really strong person, or I just might not have survived that.'' 
 In New York, Cook worked as a typist and started to audition. She spent the summer of 1950 at Tamiment, the legendary Poconos hotel. ''It was Sid Caesar, Danny Kaye, Jerry Robbins and Herbert Ross,'' she said. ''I was the ingenue, and Jack Cassidy was the juvenile, and by that time he had already done so many Broadway shows. I was terrified. But it was a wonderful time for me. I learned so much. And I got a lot of confidence because people said, 'You really sing well, you've got a real shot at this.'''
 She made her Broadway debut in 1951 in the flop musical ''Flahooley'' and returned to Tamiment that summer, where she met David LeGrant, a comedian who later became an acting teacher and her husband. 
 Cook worked throughout the 50's and into the mid-60's, starring on Broadway in ''Candide'' and ''She Loves Me'' and in City Center revivals of ''Carousel'' and ''The King and I.'' Her son, Adam, was born in 1959, and when he was nearly 6, Cook and LeGrant divorced. Over the next eight years, she worked less and drank more.
 ''The depression that comes with it creeps up on you so slowly you don't know when it started,'' she said. ''The psychotherapeutic community didn't help very much in the sense that several doctors allowed me to continue far too long, thinking I had some neurotic problem rather than looking at the damn drinking. Because it's so common that you think: Oh, I drink because I have problems. And if I fix the problems, I won't need to drink. But what happens, of course, is the drinking becomes the problem, and you can't fix anything until you stop drinking.
 ''I don't know exactly when it became more difficult to be a good mother,'' she went on. ''But Adam went to live with his father when he was 14. I was really in bad shape. I would get up to get him off to school and go back to bed and sleep till he was about to come home. I'd set the clock and try to be dressed, kind of together when he came home from school. The house was a wreck, terrible. I was not some lady drunk. I was a real nonfunctioning alcoholic. Dishes, always in the sink. The kitchen a mess. The bathroom a mess. Everything a mess.'' 
 Finally, in the summer of 1973, she pulled it together enough to go on the road with Harold Lang, Helen Gallagher and Nancy Dussault in a series of concerts called ''The Gershwin Years.'' Harper, who knew Dussault, saw the show a few times, and the following year he and Cook joined forces. ''It was just an amazing coming together,'' she told me. ''Our musical sensibilities were so much the same.''
 Unlike Cook, Harper, who was raised in Ohio, received a formal musical education, at both the New England Conservatory and Juilliard. Cook and Harper played at a club called Brothers and Sisters, on Restaurant Row in Midtown, where Herbert Breslin, Luciano Pavarotti's manager, heard them and booked them into Carnegie Hall in 1975. He produced the concert, which was a sensation, and got them their first contract with CBS Records. But they broke with Breslin a year later. ''He was from the classical world, and we were from show biz and wanted to stay in show biz,'' Cook said. ''I just felt it was oil and water.''
 Although Cook experimented with a repertory that included contemporary pop, she and Harper eventually settled on the musical theater and American standards. ''I think I know how to act theater songs as well as anybody's ever done it,'' Cook said, ''and that's something I didn't understand in the beginning. It's hard to judge your own work.'' 
 What she loved was working with Harper. ''What we put together is very, very detailed,'' she said. ''It came out of long conversations about 'What do you think these words mean? How do we move into that phrase?' He could spend a half-hour or more trying to figure out a key change. There were songs occasionally that we felt we didn't have quite right, and we'd keep working on them for maybe, oh, a month or so. You can't tell somebody about all of that. They had to be there.''
 She knitted her fingers together, and her eyes filled. ''You know, I was so angry with him so much of the time the last few years that I forgot how much I loved him.'' She wiped her eyes. ''He could be so much fun. That's where the party was. But in the later years, he was very hard to be around. You didn't know which Wally you were going to get. He would lash out at me, and I began to pull away from him socially. Then it became more and more difficult to work with him. I thought many times about severing the relationship, but I couldn't face the idea of what it would be like without him, and I was right, I think, to not sever it, because being without him now is just hell. I didn't realize how much I depended on him.'' 
 She looked out the window, seeming to struggle over what she should say, or shouldn't. ''His work got very unpredictable,'' she said. ''During one show, there were wrong notes, wrong chords, the tempos were off. For me it was musical chaos.'' She began to cry again. ''He was never willing to go into rehab, which is no guarantee, but it's a step you can take to try to help yourself. His life was very compartmentalized. I knew him as well or better than anybody, but there were still things he would keep from me. He was a tortured guy, and
 I'll never know the reason. He had a really good relationship with his family. I knew them, they were delightful people. He was a very sensitive, fragile person, and I think many of his friends would not understand that remark. He could give off a great feeling of strength, and he knew how to solve things. But he had an explosive temper. When I first met him, he was biting his fingernails, and I tapped his hand and said, 'Don't do that.' And he said: 'Get away from me. Don't tell me what to do.' That was a side I hadn't seen, and I learned pretty early you don't go there, period.''
Hugh Fordin, the president of DRG Records, produced the last eight albums Cook and Harper made together; he first worked with Harper in the early 1980's, when he recorded the score of the Broadway show ''A Day in Hollywood/A Night in the Ukraine,'' for which Harper was the musical director.
 ''I think Wally was tortured because he never became a successful composer,'' Fordin said when I phoned him. ''He was never able to keep a collaborator, and that was his loss. But being a composer helped give him, as an arranger, an emotional sense of what a song was about and how Barbara could further it. And he wasn't just an accompanist. He could take a chorus by himself and make the piano sound like a whole orchestra, do all kinds of emotional shadings. It was almost like being a painter who hears it and plays it instead of paints it.''
 Like Cook, Fordin said he felt conflicted about Harper's drinking. ''There's a thin line between genius and madness,'' he said. ''He turned up once out-of-control drunk, but I forgave him. I didn't want to. But we went on to record another album together. He just had what nobody else had.''
 Which made accepting his demons all the more difficult for Cook. ''What I've come to realize,'' she said the afternoon I visited her at home, ''is that my husband and Wally played similar roles in my life. They were the people who were going to keep me safe and take care of me. And I've come to realize that I was much stronger than either of them. It took me a long time to understand that.'' 
 When Cook stopped drinking in 1977, she says, her depression subsided as well. She could not, however, conquer her problems with weight. ''You know, I would love to be thinner,'' she said. ''I am not one of those people who say, 'Oh, it's all wonderful, and the fatter I get, the better.' I lost about 50 pounds a couple of years ago, and I'm pleased that I've kept about 35 of it off.''
 She recalled an article The New York Times ran in the mid-70's to mark her re-emergence on the scene in which a photograph of her ''old'' self was juxtaposed with one of her ''new,'' significantly heavier self. She waved her hand dismissively. ''I decided that I had to try to be comfortable with my body as it was because otherwise you just live in a closet, you don't go out,'' she said. ''When I did the Gershwin thing, I think I weighed about 160, something like that, and I was so upset because I'd never performed at that weight. My son was, I guess, 12 or 13. And I couldn't find any clothes to rehearse in. He came to me and said, 'Mom, we'll go out this afternoon, and I know we can find some clothes you can wear.' Then he said, 'Besides, when you sing, you'll be beautiful.' I'll never forget that.'' Her smile was warm. ''So I got a good boy. Really sweet.'' (Adam LeGrant, now 45, lives in Los Angeles and is an aspiring actor. He and his mother have stayed close in his adult years; he was her date at the Grammys.)
 The weight gain succeeded in stalling Cook's career, a realization that still stings. ''I wish I had had a really good manager then who said: 'You know, now is the time to build a national profile. Do television more, try harder to be in a film and give yourself some kind of national exposure.' I'm sorry now that I didn't do that, because it gives you more opportunities when you're older. I was watching a Debbie Reynolds film a few years back and, thinking, God, isn't she lucky to have all that delightful stuff on film where we can still see how adorable she was and good she was?''
 She sighed. ''I guess if I had done something about my neck and a little bit of this or that,'' she said, meaning plastic surgery, ''it wouldn't have hurt. I certainly would like to have a better neckline, but it's also about keeping an honest approach to my work. Lipo might help, but I don't think I want any of that happening near my larynx. It scares me. I'm just so happy that people seem to accept who I am. They don't come back after a show and say, 'Oh, you're so fat.' They say: 'Oh, you're so moving. You made me cry.' 
 ''And in the last five or six years my work has become deeper because I was willing to go deeper,'' she went on. ''I'm the slowest bloomer, the latest bloomer ever. I think -- barring any kind of big health problems -- I'll sing better five years from now, because I expect I'll have more courage to be even more open. Because I believe that's the kind of the road I'm on. I consider myself a work in progress. This is not the done deal.'' 
 The one thing Cook will not talk about is a lost love from years ago, a married man who did not leave his wife. She doesn't have to discuss it really; see her onstage and moments arise -- her fine acting aside -- when the pain on her face seems all too real. 
 ''Certainly there was somebody I wanted to be with, and his decision to not be with me was exactly the proper one,'' she said. ''The way I was trained as an actress is to use emotional memory. I think that's one reason why I find it extremely difficult to throw out any kind of photograph, because my work feeds on the past. That's how the work becomes specific, which is what I think it's all about. There are singers whose singing I admire, but they don't move me unless they let me in. 
 ''That's what I try to teach kids. To accept who they are and to use their memories and experiences as much as they can, instead of 'I ought to sound like Barbra Streisand or Judy Garland.' When I sing, I try to keep it like just a couple of people in my living room and I'm talking to them. That's why I like to have light in the audience so I can relate to people. I don't mean I have to look in their eyes specifically, but I see a shape. It makes me less afraid. And I'm trying to not do tricks, to do the work again every time instead of phoning it in. It's me trying to be comfortable and make the place mine, just my house. And I work the people into my house and my world.''
On the afternoon of the Sarasota performance, Cook rehearsed with Harris and Donovan at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, where they were staying, before going on to Van Wezel Hall. Kravat had arranged the use of a piano in a ballroom that had just emptied after a corporate lunch.
 For show people, 2 p.m. might as well be 9 a.m., and though the tension was already running high, the energy was still low. Cook, dressed in black, hid behind the piano, clutching a bottle of water, worrying out loud about how she would be called onstage to accept her award.
 Kravat knew enough to keep his distance and quickly found a project to his liking; the brunch tables had not been cleared, and he busied himself collecting pencils. ''It's hard to find good pencils these days,'' he said to no one in particular. 
 Although there was no bass, Donovan sat near Harris. ''Let's just hit it,'' Cook said, starting her opening number, ''It's Not Where You Start, It's Where You Finish.'' 
 As she sang, the hotel staff cleared the room. Chafing dishes clanged and tables rolled. In their corner, Cook faced Harris, trying to block the distraction. ''Can we make that more of a cutoff?'' she asked. He seemed unsure. ''O.K.,'' he said. ''But I listened to the CD, and it wasn't.'' Donovan jumped in. ''You're right, it just evolved that way.'' Harris made a note, and Cook started again. At this time of day everything sounded too high for her.
 ''That's just terrific, Jeff,'' she said at the song's end. ''Real good tempos, everything.''
 On the second song, ''Among My Yesterdays,'' she stopped him again. ''It's a hair slow,'' she said. ''I'm really splitting hairs. I could live with that.'' They tried it again. ''Again, it's just a hair,'' she said. ''Is it driving you crazy yet?''
 ''No, not yet,'' Harris said gamely. They did it again. ''Terrific,'' Cook said. 
 They moved on to ''In Buddy's Eyes,'' from ''Follies.'' A waitress clattered a pile of plates just feet from the piano, and Cook forgot her words. ''Let's do the whole thing again, O.K.?'' she said.
 They did, and she found the music ''a hair fast,'' though again she ''could live with it,'' which Harris understood meant changing it immediately. He made more notes, and as the commotion in the room kept on, Cook grabbed a chair, sat down on it, placed her hands on her knees and closed her eyes. This is something she often has her students do, to tune out the ''shoulds'' of their music and really listen to what it is they are trying to say.
 The next song was the melancholy paean to lost love, ''This Nearly Was Mine,'' from ''South Pacific.'' Cook started softly: ''One dream in my heart/One love to be living for.'' The longing built in her voice, and the voice itself grew stronger, not louder. ''Now, now I'm alone/Still dreaming of paradise/Still saying that paradise/Once nearly was mine.''
 The yearning became even more pronounced and the voice swelled and both musicians thrilled to it as if to an electric current, riveted, and Kravat clutched his pencils, still as a statue. It was a moment so naked, so intimate and transporting that it was suddenly hard to remember where the ballroom was or why any of us were in it. There was just the ache and the soar of that voice and then, rapture. 
 It would be nice to report that silence ensued. That the wait staff also saw God. But the plates kept clanking and the tables kept rolling. Kravat called, ''Barbara, I don't want to rush you, but they're holding Feinstein there for you.''
 Cook opened her eyes, and her face was suffused with calm. Her breathing had changed, and when she stood, she seemed taller. She was completely at ease. Completely at home. But she wasn't finished. ''Just one more,'' she said. And turned back, to the piano. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Cook (Photograph by George Duncan)
 Side by Side: Cook with Wally Harper, her longtime musical director and accompanist, who died last year, rehearsing for a Carnegie Hall concert in 1980. (Photograph by Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POP & ROCK (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); OPERA (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%); ENGLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



335 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2335 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Nest Eggs, Investors Buy Nests

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
AS New York's real estate juggernaut thunders on, with record topping record, it would seem that there are no longer any surprises in the market and, certainly, no longer any deals. 
 But the real surprise may be that, amid all the hype and hurly-burly, many New Yorkers are quietly investing their money in real estate in ways that are not speculative but adhere to a more traditional approach: buying for the long term, seeking properties that generate rental income and, yes, for those who know where to look, even finding the occasional good deal. These new old-style investors include stock market refugees still licking their dot-com wounds, long-time renters hoping for a retirement nest egg, and eat-sleep-and-breathe real estate professionals. 
 Barbara Corcoran is one person who has been adding to her real estate portfolio despite the surging market, and in places she would not have considered a few years ago. 
 Ms. Corcoran, who founded the Corcoran Group, the real estate brokerage firm, signed a contract this month to pay $1.075 million to buy a fully renovated three-story building at 293 Van Brunt Street in Red Hook, Brooklyn. It has two vacant apartments and an unoccupied storefront, and her colleague and broker, Beth Kenkel, is already trying to find tenants who can fill them as soon as the deal closes. The projected monthly rent roll is $5,850. 
 She is also negotiating to buy a $1.5 million town house in Harlem with four occupied apartments. Her broker, another Corcoran colleague, Andre Rozzell, said the units bring in about $8,000 a month in rent. 
 Ms. Corcoran said investors can benefit from an ''oversteamy'' market like this one. Because there aren't enough properties in the prime areas to go around, old neighborhoods are reinvigorated. ''It drags up the fringes along with the fashionable, and that's great for people who want to find a new opportunity,'' she said.
 Ms. Corcoran already owns five small buildings -- one in the East Village, one in the West Village, one in Chelsea, and two on the Upper East Side -- all but one of them bought in the last five years. But rising prices in those neighborhoods have led her to branch out, and she is looking for more properties in ''up-and-coming neighborhoods,'' like Red Hook and Harlem, and hopes to buy something soon in Queens. 
 ''I'm a rather timid investor,'' Ms. Corcoran said. ''I'm always trying to buy for a bad market.''
 Ms. Corcoran likes to buy small buildings, ''usually three- or four-story town houses with tenants in place.'' In a typical deal she gets financing for up to 75 percent of the purchase price and seeks properties where she knows that she can cover her monthly costs, even if rents are low. If there is a little profit left over after mortgage payments, taxes and other expenses, so much the better, but enhancing cash flow is not the goal. ''I'm looking for a retirement fund so I can sell the building 10 or 20 years out,'' she said.
 Other investors are much newer to the real estate world. ''We lost our money on the stock market and ever since then we decided to put our money elsewhere,'' said Sam Somwaru, the owner of a video production company called Sound and Motion. In early 2003, Mr. Somwaru took some of his money out of the market and bought a studio and a one-bedroom apartment in a building on East 82nd Street, between First and York Avenues. He bought the units from the building's sponsor, which allows him to rent them out even though the building is a co-op. 
 ''It was just a gut feeling I had,'' said Mr. Somwaru, who is pleased that values in the building have risen sharply. The studio cost $135,000 and the one-bedroom cost $200,000. He said he could get twice that for each of them today but he prefers to hold the properties for the rental income: $1,350 a month for the studio and about $1,800 a month for the one-bedroom. He paid cash for the apartments, and the maintenance on the two units combined is less than $800 a month, meaning he enjoys a positive return on his investment. 
 Yuri Smolyansky said he watched his friends lose money on stocks and decided that real estate was safer. He and his wife, Mila Birzoul, bought a $280,000 alcove studio last August on the 14th floor of 455 East 86th Street, with the help of Mitzie Lau, a broker at Corcoran. The apartment came with a tenant who pays $1,800 a month. ''It's a little below market, but she's a good tenant and I don't want to raise it,'' said Mr. Smolyansky, who runs L and B Grooming, a pet salon on East 78th Street. ''We break even. I'm not looking for positive cash flow because we both work and have a good income.''
 Mr. Smolyansky and his wife own the apartment where they live in a co-op building on Grand Central Parkway in Forest Hills, Queens. They also own another unit in the same building, which they bought from the sponsor last year. They paid $44,000 in cash for the unit, which came with a rent-stabilized tenant who pays $725 a month, enough to cover the monthly maintenance of about $550.
 Now the couple hope to move to an apartment near their business on the Upper East Side, and then rent out their current one-bedroom. ''My goal is to get as many apartments as I can, even with a mortgage, and break even -- I don't want any negative cash flow -- and when my retirement comes, sell everything,'' Mr. Smolyansky said.
 Expectations among real estate investors have changed dramatically with the recent increase in prices and a softening in the rental market, and with the low returns or insecurity available in other sorts of investment.
 Robert A. Knakal, chairman of Massey Knakal Realty Services, said that in the mid-1980's and early 1990's, investors could expect an 8 to 10 percent annual return on rental properties. Today, he said, investors are buying properties with yields ranging from 3 to 6 percent. 
 ''They're not being foolish,'' said Mr. Knakal, whose firm specializes in selling apartment buildings, commercial properties and town houses. ''They're looking at it differently than people who have been in the market for a very long time, because sometimes historical perspective is a negative thing. People will look at a transaction -- if they've been in the market a long time -- and say, 'I could have bought that property for $50 a square foot or gotten a 9 percent return and today it's selling for $600 a square foot and the cap rate is 4 1/2 percent.' And they can't bring themselves to pay that type of price and someone with a fresh perspective looks at it and says, 'A 4 1/2 percent return is not so bad; I'll take it.''' 
 On the other hand, having a small return means that the risk is inherently higher. Neil Binder, a founder of Bellmarc, the real estate company, said investors must be aware of that.
 ''People are buying things with no return,'' he said. ''If the market turns, that's a big problem.'' It has become fashionable to buy condos in new Manhattan developments at high prices, with the expectation of flipping them at a substantial profit. But that can be risky if the market cools off and it isn't possible to resell quickly, but the rental income doesn't cover the carrying costs.
 ''These are not good investments -- it's razor-edge investing,'' he said. ''You've got no yield going in and you've got high risks. I see a lot of this as fueling an overfrenzied market.'' 
 A break-even investment is O.K., Mr. Binder said, but ''never buy a negative return; most real estate deals, you don't get killed on the sale, you get killed on the bleed.'' 
 But Mr. Binder believes it is still possible to prosper as an investor in real estate with a long-term outlook. Mr. Binder and his partner at Bellmarc, Marc Broxmeyer, own about 150 condo apartments. Nearly all of them are studios or one-bedrooms. Smaller apartments cost less, Mr. Binder said, and there are more renters seeking small apartments than big ones. 
 ''I love condos as an investment,'' Mr. Binder said. He likes the fact that if the boiler breaks down or a faucet leaks, the building's managing agent is there to fix it. And owning condos in many buildings across different neighborhoods is a way to diversify and cut risk. Mr. Binder said he typically expects to hold onto an apartment for five years, and often longer. 
 Mr. Binder said he is now ready to sell several condos he bought in the late 1990's in neighborhoods that have seen strong increases in property values, such as Greenwich Village and Gramercy Park. He will take that money, he said, and buy more condos in neighborhoods where he sees more room for growth. 
 ''There are areas where the appreciation will be a function of the general economy or the city economy,'' Mr. Binder said, ''and there are other areas where there's a story. And I like to buy a story. A story is when there is something going to happen here that is going to affect values in the immediate area.''
 As an example, he said, Columbia University has announced plans to build a second campus in West Harlem, from 125th Street to 133rd Street, between 12th Avenue and Broadway. If the project goes through, it will drive up property values in the surrounding area. Another example is the push to build a stadium for the New York Jets over the Hudson rail yards in west Midtown. 
 Mr. Binder has developed several strategies for identifying promising neighborhoods. He refers to one of them as the ''concentric circles'' method. ''I view that through the visual of a pebble dropping into the water,'' Mr. Binder said. ''Manhattan has become so off-the-wall expensive that the ripple effect of the intensity of Manhattan pricing is going concentrically to other areas'' in and around Manhattan. Lately, he has been searching for apartments in Harlem, in parts of Queens, on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx and in Yonkers. 
 Mr. Binder also talks of what he calls ''bridging,'' or investing in an underdeveloped or neglected area between two already hot neighborhoods. He pointed to the spate of new development along West 42nd Street and, farther north, the blocks around the new Time Warner Center. The area in between, he predicted, will soon see a spillover effect as prices there are pulled up by the higher prices in the neighboring districts. 
 In the Bronx, Roslyn Khan, a broker at Century 21 Future Homes Realty in the Castle Hill section, barely had time to get on the phone with a reporter, she was so busy showing properties and making deals.
 ''It's a hot market right now, especially in the Bronx,'' Ms. Khan said. ''They are looking for anything, one- to four-families, even buildings, whatever we can put our hands on. The investors are coming out and they want to buy up everything that needs work and they'll refurbish it and put it back on the market.'' 
 Ms. Khan's office specializes in the South Bronx, in the Castle Hill, Soundview and Morris Park sections, and in Parkchester, a large condominium complex where values have shot up in recent years. 
 Ms. Khan has also made some investments of her own. She has bought seven condos in Parkchester and, elsewhere in the Bronx, she also has three houses, with two, four and six apartments. Her most recent purchase was a two-bedroom condo she bought in Parkchester last year for $70,000. She estimates it would fetch $115,000 today, but she is not selling. She has a tenant who pays $1,200 a month, which allows a small profit once she has paid the monthly maintenance of $486 and made mortgage payments of $438. 
 ''I'm not making much but when I'm ready to liquidate, I have the money there,'' Ms. Khan said. ''It's better than the stock market.''
 Marie Bianco, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, manages investment properties for half a dozen clients who have taken advantage of a tax break that allows the seller of an investment property to defer capital gains for an indefinite period if the money from a sale is reinvested in a similar piece of real estate. Such sales are called like-kind exchanges or 1031 exchanges, named after the section of the federal tax code that governs them. 
 Ms. Bianco said that eight years ago, a foreign client she represents bought a one-bedroom apartment at 166 East 63rd Street for $280,000. Ms. Bianco furnished the apartment and found a tenant, who paid $3,500 a month. Three years later, the client sold the apartment for $585,000, she said. To qualify for a like-kind exchange and defer capital gains, the money was used to buy a three-bedroom apartment at 134 East 93rd Street, for $616,000. The apartment already had a tenant, paying $5,500 a month, and the rent has since increased to $6,000 a month. 
 The client recently had the apartment appraised at $1.4 million and took out a $1 million mortgage on the property to finance another real estate purchase, Ms. Bianco said. 
 Josephine Hemsing is a lifelong renter who bought her first piece of real estate last August. 
 Along with her husband, Dan Cameron, she runs Hemsing Associates, a public relations firm that works with classical musicians. They live in a rent-stabilized apartment on the Upper East Side and also rent another apartment for an office. 
 Content for the time to live and work as renters, they still felt the time might be right to buy a condo that they could rent to someone else. They reasoned that would allow them to build up equity in a property that, in the future, they might want to occupy themselves.
 The couple looked at several apartments before finding a one-bedroom condo at the Concorde, a luxury building at 220 East 65th Street, which they bought for $590,000 last August. Their broker, Lynne Roberts of Bellmarc, helped them find a tenant who pays $3,000 a month. Regularly scheduled mortgage payments, taxes and common charges total about $3,500 a month, Ms. Hemsing said, and the couple have also decided to make additional payments on the loan principal. 
 ''I realize there's a frenzy going on but that's not why I was involved,'' Ms. Hemsing said. ''I felt that I had come to a point in my life where I had to take some money and invest it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Red Hook -- Barbara Corcoran, founder of the Corcoran Group, is paying $1.075 million for a fully renovated three-story building in Brooklyn that she will rent out.
The Bronx -- Roslyn Khan, a broker at Century 21 Future Homes, owns several properties, including this six-unit house at 1144 Metcalf Avenue. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
PRODUCING INCOME -- Josephine Hemsing and Dan Cameron outside the Concorde on the Upper East Side, where they bought a one-bedroom condo for $590,000 last August and rent it out for $3,000 a month.
 LANDLORDS ALL -- Neil Binder, above, at an East 85th Street building where he co-owns eight apartments. Sam Somwaru, above left, at an East 82nd Street building where he owns two apartments. Yuri Smolyansky lives in Queens and owns a studio apartment on East 86th Street. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 5)Chart: ''Adding It Up''Here's how Barbara Corcoran calculated income and expenses on a $1.075 million rental property she is buying in Red Hook, Brooklyn.PROJECTED ANNUAL EXPENSESMortgage payment (at 6%): $58,008Real estate taxes: 1,345Water and sewer: 750Fuel: 2,000Insurance: 1,800Utilities for common areas: 200Repair and maintenance: 3,000TOTAL: $67,103PROJECTED ANNUAL INCOMEGround floor: $30,000Apartment #1: 19,200Apartment #2: 21,000TOTAL: $70,200(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Housing

PERSON: William Neuman; Barbara Corcoran

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



336 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Stock Markets Tumble to New Lows for the Year

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market lost ground last week, with all three major indexes falling to new lows for 2005. 
 Weak earnings reports and economic data that suggested the economy might be losing steam convinced some investors to sell stocks and seek safety in bonds. I.B.M., which tumbled 12.4 percent for the week, was among the poorest performers in the Dow Jones industrial average. 
Late on Thursday, it reported first-quarter profits that were less than expected. It also said it had sales shortfalls in late March. These disclosures exacerbated concerns that corporate spending on information technology might be slowing, setting off a wave of selling in a broad range of technology shares. 
 Other big losers were General Motors, with a decline of 13.2 percent for the week, Dupont, with a drop of 8.2 percent, and Intel, with a drop of 5.2 percent.
 For the week, the Dow lost 373.83 points, or 3.6 percent, to close at 10,087.51. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 38.58 points, or 3.3 percent, to close at 1,142.62. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 91.20 points, or 4.6 percent, to close at 1,908.15. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.24 percent from 4.47 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Ford MotorNYSE: FShares of the automaker fell to a 52-week low after the company said it was cutting its yearly profit forecast in half. Separately, Ford said that its top marketing executive for North America was leaving the company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $9.50WEEK'S CHANGE: -13.87%EST. '04 P/E: 7.40Dow JonesNYSE: DJThe publisher of The Wall Street Journal said its quarterly net income had plummeted 54 percent. The results reflected continued weakness in the newspaper's largest ad categories -- financial services and technology.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $33.98WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.70%EST. '04 P/E: 27.05Apple ComputerNNM: AAPLThe technology company reported a record quarterly profit that surpassed expectations, but investors showed concern that it might not be able to produce another blockbuster product like its iPod digital music player.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $35.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -19.18%EST. '04 P/E: 27.23MentorNYSE: MNTAdvisers to the Food and Drug Administration said that silicone breast implants made by the California company should be available to women who undergo cosmetic breast surgery, if the firm met strict conditions.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.71WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.30%EST. '04 P/E: 28.10Kerr-McGeeNYSE: KMGThe oil and gas company said it authorized an offer to buy back up to $4 billion of the company's common stock at a price between $85 and $92 a share. The offer replaced a $1 billion stock repurchase announced March 8.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $77.42WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.84%EST. '04 P/E: 10.06Harley-DavidsonNYSE: HDIThe company said earnings for its first quarter rose 11 percent from the same period last year, but it lowered its shipment and earnings forecasts for this year. Sales of its motorcycles missed first-quarter goals.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $45.80WEEK'S CHANGE: -20.03%EST. '04 P/E: 14.24Burlington Coat FactoryNYSE: BCFThe clothing retailer reported that its third-quarter net income soared 85 percent to $66.7 million, or $1.49 a share, from $36 million, or 81 cents a share, a year earlier.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.02WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.28%EST. '04 P/E: 12.77Avery DennisonNYSE: AVYThe maker of office products and adhesive labels warned that its first-quarter earnings would fall well short of expectations because of higher inventory reserves related to a new product in its consumer-products business.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $53.01WEEK'S CHANGE: -13.34%EST. '04 P/E: 16.00(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



337 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: A Soldier in the Army of the Lord

BYLINE: By Barbara Ehrenreich. 
Barbara Ehrenreich's most recent book is ''Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America.''

 BODY:

JOHN BROWN, ABOLITIONIST
The Man Who Killed Slavery, Sparked
the Civil War, and Seeded Civil Rights.
By David S. Reynolds.
Illustrated. 578 pp.
Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
 THIS may not be the most auspicious time for a sympathetic biography of a religious fanatic who repeatedly sought to advance his cause through violence. Even before the war on terrorism, John Brown had been largely relegated to a loony sidebar of American history. The high school history textbooks that the sociologist James Loewen surveyed in 1995 either brushed Brown off or labeled him insane, while, at a loftier level of intellectual discourse, Michael Ignatieff accused him of ''sadistic self-righteousness.'' So it takes courage, if not a touch of Brownian madness, to argue, as David S. Reynolds does in his absorbing new biography, ''John Brown, Abolitionist,'' that Brown was not the Unabomber of his time, but a reasonable man, well connected to his era's intellectual currents and a salutary force for change.
 Reynolds, a professor of English and American studies at the City University of New York, best known for his book ''Walt Whitman's America,'' buries the insanity charge under a mountain of contrary evidence. Even Brown's seemingly suicidal raid on Harpers Ferry represented a strategy no crazier than the Civil War practice of throwing infantry into massed rifle fire and hoping a few men would survive to break through the enemy lines: Brown's long study of slave revolts suggested that an act of exemplary violence would set off huge slave uprisings and self-emancipation. And what could be saner than his 1858 attack on three Kansas slave owners, in which Brown freed 11 blacks with only a single death?
 As for Brown's monomaniacal hostility to slavery, which seems so inexplicable to many critics, he was not the only white man so afflicted. The antislavery publisher Elijah Lovejoy, for example, had his printing presses destroyed three times by pro-slavery mobs in Illinois. Each time, he coolly acquired a new press and went on crusading, until the mob got him. 
 Nor did Brown's rigidly Calvinist version of Christianity isolate him intellectually, binLaden-style, from the intellectual ferment of his time. Reynolds reports that he traveled long distances to hear feminist lecturers, and took their cause to heart. At various times, his little band of armed recruits included Jews and agnostics, and engaged in heated discussions of ''religious themes, mesmerism, ventriloquism, necromancy, spiritualism, psychology,'' not to mention earthquakes and astronomy. More important for Brown's legitimacy, he was embraced by the leading intellectuals of his time, Henry Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson, who found in him an exemplar of the ''higher law'' their Transcendentalism aspired to.
 To those who argue that Brown's commendable goals were sullied by his bloody methods, Reynolds retorts that violence was in fact central to his message and his legacy. In the 1850's, it was the pro-slavery forces that held a monopoly on armed force -- terrorizing antislavery citizens in the Midwest as well as the South, or proudly proclaiming, as did one Kansas newspaper editor, that he lived to kill an abolitionist: ''If I can't kill a man, I'll kill a woman; and if I can't kill a woman, I'll kill a child!'' Antislavery activists, on the other hand, were often pacifists and usually the victims of their political opponents -- a relationship symbolized by a South Carolina congressman's crippling beating of the abolitionist Charles Sumner on the floor of the United States Senate. With his guns and pikes, Brown reversed the equation -stiffening the backbones of Northern abolitionists, terrifying the white South -- and hastening, through both effects, the Civil War and emancipation.
 There are times when Reynolds goes almost as far as the Transcendentalists in beatifying Brown. Maybe the Brown family members were, as Reynolds claims, the only nonracist whites in America. Certainly Reynolds cites some appallingly racist statements by antislavery leaders, including Abraham Lincoln. Brown, in contrast, fought not only to end slavery but to achieve full equality of the races, a goal he prefigured by recruiting blacks into leadership roles in his armed band and by settling in the largely black community of North Elba, N.Y. But the reader might wonder why Brown attracted so few black men to his Harpers Ferry raid and, devastatingly enough, failed to give the local slaves a heads-up in the weeks before.
 Reynolds also portrays Brown as a sort of all-around progressive saint, sympathetic to the various liberation movements of his time. But his credentials as a feminist are undermined by the fact that he inflicted 20 births on two sequential wives, the first of whom was mentally unstable. There is disappointingly little here about Mary Brown, the stolid second wife who ran the farm and raised the children while her husband raided Kansas and swanned around New England's abolitionist circles. Did she get to travel to the suffrage lectures with him? I tend to doubt it.
 On the other hand, there are points where Reynolds might have been stronger in Brown's defense. After the Fugitive Slave Act (1850) and the Dred Scott decision (1857), white people of conscience could no longer content themselves with supporting the Underground Railroad. A slave was a slave anywhere, the law declared, and for all time. Violence was beginning to look like the answer, not just to Brown, but eventually to Lincoln too.
 It was Brown's killing of five Pottawatomie, Kan., pro-slavery men -- dragged from their beds and hacked to death -- that has made commentators queasy ever since, Reynolds included to some extent. He offers the rather feeble judgment that it would be ''misleading'' to compare the Pottawatomie attack to modern terrorism. Yet if terrorism is defined as the random killing of civilians to make a political point, then it is not just misleading to call Brown a terrorist, it is flat-out wrong. Brown selected his victims carefully; all had reportedly threatened abolitionists and the Brown family in particular. At any rate, the Pottawatomie violence exacted a high price: Brown's son John Jr. suffered a long episode of insanity, and three other sons remained deeply disturbed by the killings.
 How do we judge a man of such different times -- and temperament -- from our own? If the rule is that there must be some proportion between a violent act and its provocation, surely there could be no more monstrous provocation than slavery. In our own time, some may discern equivalent evils in continuing racial oppression, economic exploitation, environmental predation or widespread torture. To them, ''John Brown, Abolitionist,'' for all its wealth of detail and scrupulous attempts at balance, has a shockingly simple message: Far better to have future generations complain about your methods than condemn you for doing nothing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gregory Nemec)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); SLAVERY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TERRORISM (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Barbara Ehrenreich; David S Reynolds; John (1800-59) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



338 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: His Long Walk Home

BYLINE: By PETER EDIDIN

 BODY:
WALKING with Robert Jay Kaufman after lunch is not good for the digestion. He is tall and has long legs that speed up when something engages his interest. He constantly jaywalks. He never takes more than a few steps before stopping to consider some element in the cityscape. And inclement weather, like the mini-monsoon that drenched the city a couple of weeks ago, is a minor inconvenience.
 On Franklin Street in TriBeCa, between Greenwich and Hudson, for example, in the midst of that downpour, he ordered a halt. ''Look at the Renaissance details -- the arches and the verticals,'' he said of several buildings on the north side of the street. ''You can see the egos of people who put up the buildings, all of which were built probably within 20 years of each other. Each one tried to do something different, to get noticed.''
 Crossing the street, Mr. Kaufman pulled out a credit card, squinted along its edge to check the alignment of the window casements and decorative details of a tiny two-story brick house, recently restored, and pointed out where the builder had intentionally varied the scheme. It is that attention to symmetry and proportion, he suggested, that makes the little structure feel so right to a passer-by. 
 Manhattan has 1,544 blocks below 14th Street, or so Mr. Kaufman says. That number, like many things about the city's oldest precincts, is debatable; it depends, among other things, on how one defines ''block.'' The City Planning Department, for example, estimates that Manhattan has 3,450 blocks, 1,100 of which are below 14th Street.
 Still, Mr. Kaufman has earned the right to his opinion.
 Mr. Kaufman's day job, so to speak, is heading the illustration and animation department at the Art Institute of Boston at Lesley University. But in the spring, summer and fall of 2003, this 54-year-old urban adventurer spent 52 days wandering back and forth over every one of those blocks. His circuitous ramble covered roughly 300 miles, during which he ran through three pairs of walking shoes and developed, he said, ''legs of steel and feet of clay.''
 The tale of this trek along what he describes as ''my Appalachian Trail with restaurants'' is told in words and pictures in ''Blockology: An Offbeat Walking Guide to Lower Manhattan,'' a new book that Mr. Kaufman wrote, illustrated and published through the aptly named Turning Corners Press, of which he is both proprietor and sole employee. 
 The book's theme is experiencing the essential downtown New York through the close, leisurely observation of the architecture and ambience of its blocks. It is a mission he regards as both humble and noble. City dwellers tend to take the block for granted, despite the fact that it is the fundamental element of urban space. Or as Mr. Kaufman puts it: ''The block integrates society. It's the true marketplace.''
 ''Blockology,'' though, is less a work of scholarship than of love. It is a work Mr. Kaufman felt compelled to create, and it exists as a testament to the hold that the city can exercise over the imagination, especially the imagination of an artist. 
 It is also a valentine to the city that gave Mr. Kaufman a name and whose publishing industry gave him a profession as an illustrator. Not surprisingly, given his romantic attachment to the place, it was also here that Mr. Kaufman met his future wife -- a graphic designer named Susan Scott -- at the Port Authority Bus Terminal, of all places.
 No one knows what Mr. Kaufman's forebears were called before they immigrated to New York from Russia in the 19th century. Like many greenhorns, they swapped their old-country name for one that sounded more American. What is known is that the family thrived in the city and developed a fierce loyalty to it.
 When he was a boy, in the 1960's, ''there were tremendous fiscal and crime problems,'' Mr. Kaufman recalled the other day in a pouring rain, ''and everybody seemed to be leaving for the suburbs.'' Even his own family had migrated to Chatham Township, N.J. 
 ''But when the family got together, it was always in Manhattan, at my aunt's or uncle's,'' he said. ''Everyone was just mad about the city; it was the only place to live in America. There was constant discussion of the best restaurants and plays. You rarely heard a bad word about the place. So I had a very romantic notion about it, and I also had parents who allowed me to wander with a friend or cousins at a very young age.'' As young as 11, he used to go without an adult to Yankee games or get cheap balcony seats at the theater.
 After high school, Mr. Kaufman studied art in California, but he returned to the city in 1977, to a loft on Franklin Street in what was then the urban wilderness of TriBeCa. ''We had a potbellied stove,'' Mr. Kaufman recalled, ''and every night in the winter I used a circular saw to cut up the wood pallets we would find in the streets. Everybody's goal was to find a girlfriend who lived in a heated place.''
 Eventually, he moved on, first to Hoboken after he was priced out of TriBeCa, and then to teaching jobs in North Carolina and later Boston. Still, he never found anyplace as intriguing to live in as New York, and for years, he contemplated creating a guide to Manhattan. Over time, his focus narrowed to the lower part of the island, in part because of what he described as its Roman character, the way that even natives get lost in its twisting streets and alleys.
 The idea languished for lack of time, energy and resolve. Then came Sept. 11.
 ''I had to come back,'' Mr. Kaufman said simply. ''I felt this was my home, and it had been attacked.'' 
 After arranging for a sabbatical, he sublet an apartment on Avenue A in the East Village. In late May 2003, he started walking. With time out for visits to his family outside Boston, he finished on Oct. 31. 
 In the beginning, Mr. Kaufman wasn't quite sure what sort of project he was working on. ''I had this daily ritual,'' he said. ''I'd get up in the morning, and I'd walk two, three hours. Then I'd find someplace to have lunch and rest my feet, and then go and do another couple of hours.''
 One day he used a pedometer to check his mileage. ''I found I walked about five miles, covering maybe 30 blocks. All the crisscrossing of the street really added up.'' 
 In an effort to make sense of all he was seeing, he created a master list with six categories -- architecture, shopping, restaurants, nature, people and views -- and he used those categories to give each block an overall score. He also kept anecdotal notes and took pictures; by the time he was finished he had amassed 2,000 photographs and filed 15 binders.
 As he expected, people often asked Mr. Kaufman what he was up to, and many assumed, or hoped, that he was really doing something else.
 ''They really wanted me to be the person who fixes the sidewalks,'' he said, ''some kind of city official that they could complain to. My second day out, there was one woman who wouldn't accept the fact that I wasn't the foreman on a construction site. She was complaining about the noise level of the construction and so forth, and she would not believe me.''
 But at least one person loved the idea. A librarian, whom Mr. Kaufman met while visiting the historic Ottendorfer Branch of the New York Public Library, on Second Avenue, called him ''the wandering artist.''
 As he grew more comfortable with his daily routine, Mr. Kaufman became increasingly attuned to the singularity of each block. ''I began to see blocks as personifications,'' he said, ''each one having an ancestry and a personality, suffering some of the ill effects of getting older and then having periods of rejuvenation.''
 Vesey Street was one of his favorites. ''On the south side,'' he said, ''you have one of the great landmark churches, St. Paul's, and the cemetery-park space. On the north side, you have these wonderful buildings from the early 20th century, which were built in homage to the city as a burgeoning financial empire. There's a certain blend of the old classic New York with the really old New York, the city of George Washington's day.''
 Mr. Kaufman calls this a link block, one that connects different segments of the city, in this case the City Hall area, which is reminiscent of the 19th century and Tammany Hall, with the modern high-rise metropolis of the World Trade Center area and Battery Park City.
 He also identified guest blocks (places where only tourists gather), gut blocks (where the pace of renovation is such that they are different every time you return) and uncuisine blocks (where every restaurant serves the same food). Altogether, he coined 49 terms to describe the types and functions of city blocks. Nor is this list exhaustive; in the book, he invites readers to contribute to the lexicon at his Web site, www.turningcornerspress.com.
 Of the 1,544 blocks he visited, Mr. Kaufman revisited dozens of them, ultimately choosing to illustrate and describe 35. 
 The severe culling was a choice, not a necessity. ''So many travel books are stuffed with information,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''But the city's environment is too complex for people to understand it that way. You have to allow people to wander. It doesn't matter what direction you go in; it's the journey and the observation.
 ''That's the idea of 'Blockology,''' he continued. ''I want the book to help people be more observant, and to realize that the visual world that they live in really counts for something; it's not to be taken for granted. In the suburbs they have severe difficulties with teenagers because they're visually bored. Somebody down the street just planted a new shrub. Whoop-de-do.''
 He illustrated the text not just with photographs, which he thought were too literal and tended to focus attention on details like a cornice or a picturesque sign, but with collagelike combinations of photographs and illustrations that he hoped would suggest what he called ''imagined realities.''
 After printing 4,000 copies -- his total investment for the project was $40,000 -- he began hawking it at local bookstores and on his Web site. Through sales of the book, Mr. Kaufman hopes to earn enough money to create a new love letter to New York, this time based on the thousands of photographs he took during his long walk. But mostly, he seems to want to replicate the experience of working on ''Blockology,'' the wandering, observing and meditating on a great city.
 ''It was the best thing I've ever done in my life,'' he said. ''I doubt anything will top it. I'd always found tremendous contentment in walking. And just to make a profession of it was too good to be true.''

First in His Heart
 TO be honest, Robert Jay Kaufman loves all the blocks of New York. But if he had to pick a favorite among the blocks south of 14th Street, he would choose First Avenue between First and Second Streets. 
 It's not just that the block, above, is a major portal to the pleasures of the East Village. ''It's also a chat block; there's always a large number of people in front of the storefronts, sheltering under the incredible trees and talking. There are Hispanics, Sikh taxi drivers, young people with tattoos -- just a great variety.'' 
 Mr. Kaufman is also charmed by the way the block stubbornly maintains its identity. ''Even though lots of people from outside the neighborhood come there,'' he said, ''it never loses its sense of neighborliness. The outsiders never take over, unlike, say, Macdougal at night, when it's overwhelmed by tourists.'' 
 Like many of the city's fine blocks, this one has an element of mystery; as Mr. Kaufman put it, ''It shouldn't work, but does.'' Even though it sits on a five-lane roadway with heavy traffic, ''it feels somehow intimate,'' he said. He thinks it has something to do with the trees lining both sides of the street.
 The architecture, too, comes in for praise. ''It's an amazing blend of the contemporary and the traditional,'' Mr. Kaufman said, ''giving a wonderful sense of the last 100 years of New York.'' 
 His favorite structure is what he calls the ''mod top'' on an old brick tenement at the southwest corner of First Avenue and First Street. ''Somebody built what looks like a two-story, shingle-style saltbox on the top floor,'' he said. ''And on top of that they built a traditional widow's watch. Preservationists would gag.'' PETER EDIDIN


GRAPHIC: Photos: MARATHON MAN -- In traveling an ''Appalachian trail with restaurants,'' Mr. Kaufman went through three pairs of shoes and developed, he says, ''legs of steel and feet of clay.'' (Photos by Above and right, Stephen Chernin for The New York Times
below, Robert Jay Kaufman)(pg. 1)
 Among the blocks Robert Kaufman focused on in his book are Avenue C between Eighth and Ninth Streets, left, and Pine Street between William and Pearl Streets. (Photographs by Stephen Chernin for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''FOOTSTEPS -- A Field Guide To Blocks''Archipodge block -- No two buildings with the same architectural style.Blur block -- Synchronized lights and multiple lanes for traffic, resulting in a block that's a blur to both drivers and pedestrians.Century block -- Two styles of architecture that face each other on opposite sides of the street, often 19th - and 20th-century. One of the great ironies in real estate: The unattractive property has the better view.Chat block -- Where large numbers of people stand and talk. One of the characteristics that make urban life so agreeable.Chopped block -- Renovated, bricked and painted to distraction for short-term gain and long-term loss to the neighborhood.Clear block -- No trees. Not always bad, as some blocks do fine without them.Cloister block -- Hard to find, often because of the mazelike pattern of intersecting streets that create odd angles and dead ends. Cloister blocks live peacefully in the shadow of easy-to-find blocks.Item block -- Shops on a single block that all sell the same kind of product: lighting fixtures, restaurant equipment, whatever.Lag block -- Where large parcels are left empty, waiting for the endless promise of development, and buildings are left in disrepair, surrounded by scaffolding.Mirror block -- A single architectural style on both sides of the street.Moat block -- Wealthy residents on one side of the street, poor on the other.Monolog block -- A block with only one tree, which can range from a sapling clinging to life that tears at your heartstrings to a fully mature tree that seems to own the block. In either case, the tree's isolation suggests a story. Who planted and cared for it?Puff block -- Where smoking in front of buildings is commonplace.Visor blocks -- A block dominated by modern apartment buildings where all the decorative resources have been devoted to the exterior of the first couple of floors and none thereafter. New York was built on the premise that people would look up. On a visor block, they needn't bother. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (89%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (66%); ANIMATION (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



339 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; THE FREQUENT FLIER: HOTELS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Checking In and Out, When It Suits You

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT was about 8 a.m. on a wet and gray winter day in London, and the clerk at the hotel front desk was implacable. ''Sorry,'' she chirped. ''Your room won't be ready till check-in time, 3 o'clock. But of course you may leave your bags.''
 Except for me, the clerk and a bored doorman reading The Sun, the lobby was deserted. Clearly, the hotel was not full. But rules were rules.
 I deposited my bags and concocted a plan. When the clerk ducked into the back office, I stole up the stairway leading up to the darkened mezzanine floor, where the conference and banquet rooms were. The idea was to find a couch in some corner and snatch a nap. But as I got my bearings in the dim surroundings, I saw that others had the same idea. People were slumped on couches, divans and chairs. American arrivals most of them were, deposited in the post-dawn rush at Heathrow and now furtively seeking shelter till check-in time. 
 I settled onto an empty couch, but barely had my eyes closed when we all got busted. ''Hello! Good morning!'' boomed a hotel security guard, making his rounds and rousting the half-dozen putative guests ''I'm afraid you can't sleep here! I'm terribly sorry.''
 We all trudged down the stairs and filed out the revolving door into the soggy London gloom to wander through the drizzle till 3 o'clock came.
 Ah, the rules. Given the 24-hour retail economy that has evolved in America and spread rapidly through much of the rest of the world, many travelers wonder what the problem is with hotels. Why do so many of them still enforce rigid check-in and checkout times, adhering to schedules that date back to the days when you checked in to a hotel by signing your name to a front-desk register the size of a cathedral Bible?
 ''The whole check-in, checkout process is antiquated,'' said Chekitan S. Dev, an associate professor of marketing at the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration. ''But it is starting to go through quite a bit of change. Some hotels are learning how to customize the check-in and checkout experience instead of enforcing a one-size-fits-all approach.''
 Now, with technology enabling hotels to get a lot more advance information on the schedules and preferences of arriving guests, and as new hotel rooms proliferate in the United States and abroad, the paradigm of the 3 p.m. check-in and 11 a.m. checkout is at least under review, if not exactly under siege.
 Even in such bastions of hotel tradition as Europe, there are signs of flexibility, said Michael Matthews, a longtime hotel-chain marketing executive and a principal in Mankarios Partnership, which manages and markets luxury hotels and resorts. ''Sometimes they'll let you in earlier in London, but you can't depend on it, so I still make it a point to pay for the night before my arrival just to make sure they'll accommodate me in the morning,'' he said. In places like Switzerland and Germany, though, he said, ''You don't check in before the appointed hour, and you get out at the appointed hour.''
 Mr. Matthews, like Professor Dev, believes that hotels need to rethink rules about when guests arrive and depart. ''It's unquestionably not impossible to do, even when you have a union for the housekeeping staff,'' he said. ''It just requires a different way of planning.''
 He added, ''Personally, it just ticks me off when I'm told I have to get out at such and such a time, even if I've only been in the room for nine hours.''
 In the United States, travelers usually find it a lot easier to check in early than to check out late. 
 ''I have stayed at places where when you ask for a couple of hours late checkout, they always say no, you must leave the room now'' even when the hotel is not full, said Dante Marino, a sales executive in the food industry. 
 But even an on-time check-in can be dicey, he added. Last year, his company booked a block of 25 to 30 rooms to entertain clients at a well-known Memphis hotel with a 3 p.m. check-in. ''We all were all there between 3:30 and 4 o'clock, but most of the rooms still weren't ready,'' Mr. Marino said. 
 Many hotels routinely accede to requests for a few hours' late checkout without penalty, assuming they aren't fully booked. But in major cities where hotel occupancy has been soaring lately, attitudes toward late checkouts actually seem to be hardening, said Steven L. Shook, a vice president with Carlson Wagonlit Travel Solutions.
 ''I spend a lot of time in Washington and New York, and lately I have been dinged more often than ever before with late checkout fees,'' he said. 
 How much of a penalty you pay for staying a few extra hours -- or cutting your stay short by a day or more -- ''really depends on your negotiating skills at the desk,'' he added. ''My experience is, normally they'll charge you an extra half day for late check-out. In Washington, I recently had a hotel that was totally inflexible, though. For checking out at 3:40 p.m. after a meeting ran long, they charged me for a whole day.'' 
 But smart hotels, said Professor Dev, are increasingly seeking to ''customize the check-in and checkout experience,'' as more guests join their loyalty programs, which provide hotels with detailed information about specific guest preferences. Hotels traditionally looked at late checkout fees, or penalties for cutting your stay short, as ''profit centers,'' he said, adding, ''Some hotels are realizing that accommodating customers and encouraging loyalty makes more sense.''
 A few hotels have begun promoting 24-hour check-ins and checkouts. 
 Several years ago, Phil Baxter, then the general manager of the Four Points by Sheraton hotel at Los Angeles International Airport, attended an industry seminar at which Professor Dev discussed the need for hotels to better address new variables in customer-service demand. After working with his housekeeping staff on scheduling changes, Mr. Baxter instituted a policy allowing guests to check in and check out any time they choose in a 24-hour period.
 ''It's been extremely popular,'' said Mr. Baxter, who is now first vice president at Tishman Hotel Corp., which manages the Four Points hotel at the Los Angeles airport and other properties. He estimated that 35 to 70 guests typically check out at night. Not far away, the posh Beverly Hills Peninsula adopted round-the-clock check-in and checkout eight years ago on the notion, outlined on the hotel Web site, that the room ''belongs to the guest for a full 24 hours.'' And Hilton Hotels offers free late checkouts at its eight brands, based on availability, to members of its Hilton HHonors loyalty program. ''We try to accommodate late checkout requests on a complimentarily basis for HHonors members whenever we can,'' said Thomas B. Spitler, Hilton's vice president for front office operations.
 Delta Hotels, which has 37 properties in Canada, also promotes the idea that guests should have more leeway on arrival and departure. Members of the Delta Privilege loyalty program get special treatment through a service called ''I'm on My Way,'' said Susana Petti, a spokeswoman. ''They can call, give us their arrival time, and our promise is we get a room ready for them. We re-jig the housekeeping teams to fast-track that room,'' she said.
 In the United States, big convention hotels and resorts tend to have the toughest policies on arrival and departure times. But luxury hotels that cater to high-end leisure and business travelers are becoming less rigid.
 The five-star Hotel Bel-Air in Beverly Hills, for example, accommodates guests' varying check-in and checkout needs, said the general manager, Carlos Lopes.
 ''Our guests are people who are used to determining their own schedules, so we have a policy of flexibility,'' he said. ''Check-in is normally not until 3 o'clock , but if one of our repeat guests wants to check in early or check out late, we do that if the suite is available. More than ever, you know in advance more who is coming and at what time, and what their preferences are.'' Mr. Lopes said his hotel accommodated more than 90 percent of guests wanting to check in early.
 Some travelers say that more relaxed attitudes have recently been spreading across the board.
 ''I always angle for flexibility in check-in and checkout, and lately I am never being told no,'' said Jack Riepe, an executive with the American Corporate Travel Executives Association. ''I can recall the days not long ago when the front desk would have your room phone ringing at 11 a.m. if you hadn't checked out. I'd say it has become a kinder, gentler hotel industry.''
 To the extent that this is true, it's about time, said Professor Dev. ''The challenge is for general managers to rethink the system and use technology to give guests more control over their time,'' he said. ''Customizing the hotel check-in and checkout process is no longer an option. It's a necessity.''

Ready When You Are. Which is When?

COVENT GARDEN HOTEL
10 Monmouth Street, London
(44-20) 7806-1000
www.coventgardenhotel.co.uk
CHECK-IN: 2 p.m.
CHECKOUT: 11 a.m.
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After 1 p.m. the charge is half the room's rate. After 6 p.m., the full rate is charged.

FOUR SEASONS HOTEL
GEORGE V PARIS
31 Avenue George V
(33-1) 49-52-70-00
www.fourseasons.com/paris
CHECK-IN: 3 p.m.
CHECKOUT: noon
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After noon, half the room's rate is charged. After 4 p.m., the full rate is charged.

THE SHORE CLUB
1901 Collins Avenue, Miami
(305) 695-3100
www.shoreclub.com
CHECK-IN: 3 p.m.
CHECKOUT: noon
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After noon, the charge is half the room's rate. After 6 p.m., the full rate is charged.

SHUTTERS ON THE BEACH
1 Pico Boulevard, Santa Monica, Calif.
(310) 458-0030
www.shuttersonthebeach.com
CHECK-IN: 4 p.m.
CHECKOUT: noon
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After 3 p.m., the charge is half the room's rate. After 6 p.m., the full rate is charged.

MANDARIN ORIENTAL, NEW YORK
80 Columbus Circle
(212) 805-8800
www.mandarinoriental.com
CHECK-IN: 3 p.m.
CHECKOUT: noon
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After 3 p.m., the charge is half the room's rate After 6 p.m., the full rate is charged.

W CHICAGO-LAKESHORE
644 North Lake Shore Dr.
(312) 943-9200
www.starwoodhotels.com/whotels
CHECK-IN: 3 p.m.
CHECKOUT: noon
LATE CHECKOUT POLICY: After 3 p.m., the charge is half the room's rate. After 6 p.m., the full rate is charged.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Flaherty) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL STAFF (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (70%); RELIGION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Hotels and Motels

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



340 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: Why the Starriest Of Opera Houses Needs To be More Starstruck

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GUREWITSCH

 BODY:
REALITY changes; myths endure. For more than a century, the Metropolitan Opera has been synonymous with superstardom, so much so that no opera singer's claim on immortality has been secure without seasons of glory at the Met.
 Long before there was an MGM, the Met was living the classic studio line, ''More stars than the heavens.'' The Met booked stars, and symbiotically, stars made the Met. But while the company's prestige remains intact, its star quotient has declined steeply, with dire consequences at the box office.
 The old-time magic has not disappeared entirely. Proven house favorites like Cecilia Bartoli, Natalie Dessay, Juan Diego Florez, Barbara Frittoli, Dmitri Hvorostovsky, Karita Mattila, Rene Pape, Bryn Terfel and Deborah Voigt are in their prime. But sellinging tickets -- 3,800 of them seven times a week for 32 weeks -- is becoming harder. Only two singers on the current Met roster guarantee a full house: the multitasking elder statesman Placido Domingo (tenor, conductor, talent scout and general director of companies in Washington and Los Angeles) and the reigning diva, Renee Fleming. 
 Reports on Met attendance cite a complex of interrelated troubles: a graying customer base, the disappearance of music education in schools, the staggering price of tickets ($26 to $315; $15 and $25 for standing room) and, of course, the post-9/11 economy. Sold-out houses, long the rule, are now the exception. Sure-fire productions of greatest hits that sustained the house through the 1990's -- ''Aida,'' ''La Boheme,'' ''Turandot'' -- play to rows of empty seats. But these are conditions that star-studded casts would instantly reverse.
 Suppose, for the sake of argument, that the Met were to set up shop as a star factory along the lines of MGM in the 1930's, leveraging the reputations of its best talents in its own institutional interest. It has already taken a few small steps in this direction. The steady relationship the Met enjoys with Ms. Voigt is paying off with good houses. Even more rewarding artistically is the partnership with the incandescent Ms. Mattila, in new productions of ''Queen of Spades,'' ''Jenufa,'' ''Fidelio'' and ''Salome,'' as well as in revivals. Next year, she returns in ''Lohengrin'' and ''Fidelio'': good news that could be improved only by adding her debut in a new role. Houston and Chicago are giving her one, as Puccini's Manon Lescaut.
 But officially the Met disavows efforts to push individual artists. ''We only do it,'' said Sarah Billinghurst, the Met's assistant manager for artistic affairs, ''by putting them in operas in which they shine.''
 Of course, the job of bagging big game is another one that is harder than it used to be. Though stars worthy of the name still exist, there are fewer than press agents would have us believe, and most of them don't last. Financial problems are also a factor.
 ''Everyone wants to sing here,'' said Jonathan Friend, the company's artistic administrator. ''But for how many performances? Our top fee is $15,000. In Europe, it's generally 18,000 euros, nearly $24,000. Singers who used to come happily for several extended periods in a season will now only come once, for a shorter period. We may ask for 20 performances, but will we get them? Stars who just want to establish a Met presence can do it with five.''
 Hence all those runs of chestnuts like Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia'' and Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' with ''ensemble'' casts that -- good, bad or indifferent -- work no box-office magic.
 In a recent conversation in Ms. Billinghurst's surprisingly spartan office, stacked high with videos and CD's, she and Mr. Friend noted the audience's warm response to the recent revival, after 13 seasons, of Verdi's sumptuous, rarely performed ''Vespri Siciliani,'' once a Met vehicle for Montserrat Caballe, Nicolai Gedda, Sherrill Milnes and Justino Diaz, and now assigned to singers of lesser stature.
 ''Operas that used to be popular, people want to hear again,'' Ms. Billinghurst said. '''La Gioconda,' 'Ernani,' 'La Fanciulla del West,' 'Adriana Lecouvreur.' These are operas we can cast. You'll be seeing them again, in the classic productions.''
 But remember that these faded hits were vehicles in their time for the likes of Renata Tebaldi, Renata Scotto, Regina Resnick, Mario del Monaco, Franco Corelli, Richard Tucker and Ezio Pinza. They will require that sort of star power if they are not to sink quickly back to obscurity. 
 Have the standards of stardom changed? Not at all. What impresarios still dream of are artists whose distinctive gifts -- voice, looks, stage presence, dramatic flair and choice of roles -- and perhaps some human-interest angle will take even the general audience by storm. But who will spread the word? And is the public still primed to respond?
 Birgit Nilsson's Met debut, as Wagner's Isolde in 1959, rose to that standard; it landed her on the front page of The New York Times. Leontyne Price's Met debut, as Leonora in Verdi's ''Trovatore'' in 1961, rated the cover of Time.
 Bryn Terfel, the brawny Welsh baritone whose Met debut in the title role of Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' in 1994 was reviewed in The Times, was probably the last really to reap the benefits of such exposure. This season, when Angela M. Brown, a standby and second-cast Aida whose break was long in coming made the front page of The Times, the Met management was flabbergasted and delighted. But her remaining performance did not sell out.
 Yet perhaps the tide is turning. Gounod's ''Faust,'' the opera with which the Met's history began in 1883, returns on Thursday with a cast worth a major detour, particularly for the mesmerizing Mr. Pape's debut in the showy part of Mephistopheles, which he will surely play to the hilt.
 And don't forget how in December the Met triumphed with ''Rodelinda,'' the all-star Handel extravaganza assembled around Ms. Fleming. When all nine performances sold out, the scramble began to bring the show back next season. But at the Met, such pouncing is rare.
 Remember Salvatore Licitra's surprise debut in 2002? Pinch-hitting for Luciano Pavarotti in a season-ending ''Tosca,'' he, too, made the front page of The Times and won a raft of instant fans. Last month, finally, the Met welcomed Mr. Licitra back in the performances it contracted him for five years ago. Again, the opera was ''Tosca.'' Why hadn't he appeared there in the meantime?
 ''We may want to strike while the iron is hot,'' said Stewart Pearce, the Met's assistant manager for planning and marketing, joining the conversation, ''but the artist may be unavailable.'' Still, since his big break, Mr. Licitra has found time for the New York Choral Society, in concert performances of Verdi's ''Forza del Destino'' and ''Ballo in Maschera,'' and for the Washington National Opera, where he opened the season as the hero of Giordano's ''Andrea Chenier.''
 The trick to getting the stars you want is to make them offers they can't refuse. But does any opera singer today have carte blanche? Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice president and director of the vocal division at IMG Artists, has a roster of clients who just might: among them, Ms. Fleming, Susan Graham, Dawn Upshaw and David Daniels. But no.
 ''I wouldn't say carte blanche,'' Mr. Treuhaft said recently. ''I would say that there are artists who are faced with doors that are wide open for them to come in, sit down and collaborate with theaters on productions that will get them enormous recognition and the career satisfaction they want, while the theaters will come out with tickets sold and reputations polished.''
 On the evidence, quite a few proven Met favorites are finding those open doors at houses other than the Met.
 Met audiences haven't seen much lately of Mr. Terfel. ''Bryn has three young boys, and he loves living in Wales,'' Ms. Billinghurst said. ''We take him for everything he'll give us.'' That means an occasional guest shot in a signature role like Jokanaan, in Strauss's ''Salome'' or the title role of Verdi's ''Falstaff.''
 Meanwhile, at the Royal Opera in London (an easy commute from Wales), Mr. Terfel is tackling Wotan, chief god, in Wagner's ''Ring.'' Even more galling to a New Yorker was his appearance at Lyric Opera of Chicago in the title role of Stephen Sondheim's ''Sweeney Todd.''
 And what about the scintillating French soprano Natalie Dessay, who bypassed New York in favor of Chicago for ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' and Santa Fe for ''La Sonnambula''? (She returns next year as the heroine in a new production of Gounod's ''Romeo et Juliette.'')
 Or Cecilia Bartoli, who has been missing for five seasons while performing in Zurich, in varied and engrossing parts from Paisiello's ''Nina,'' Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' Rossini's ''Italiana in Algeri'' and, currently, Handel's ''Giulio Cesare''?
 The subject is touchy. ''Conversely,'' Mr. Friend said, ''the total number of performances and the range of parts Renee Fleming gives Milan, Vienna and London over a period of years may be far less than we get at the Met in one season. I hope your colleagues in those cities give our colleagues in those cities grief about that.''
 Joseph Volpe, the Met's general manager, reflects on these issues with disarming self-effacement.
 ''The Met didn't develop Renee Fleming's career,'' Mr. Volpe said. ''She did. She's already a star. Now she tells me she wants the Met to be her opera house, and I'm delighted.''
 But why haven't we seen more of Anna Netrebko, whose doe-eyed Natasha in Prokofiev's epic ''War and Peace'' enthralled Met audiences? The best the Met has dredged up for her since is Musetta, in ''La Boheme,'' an also-ran role if ever there was one.
 The recent announcement of next season's repertory brought better news: a new production of Donizetti's ''Don Pasquale,'' with Ms. Netrebko partnered by the dashing Mr. Florez. Still, this is practically musical comedy, and elsewhere Ms. Netrebko is making her mark as a tragedienne.
 ''Anna is a developing star,'' Mr. Volpe said. ''She's very careful, and she needs to be, about what she sings at the Met. She can choose roles more aggressively with other companies. Our role is not to cast her so as to cause a setback.'' He was referring, no doubt, to the size of the house as well as its high profile.
 But Mr. Volpe's assessment is hard to reconcile with other evidence of Ms. Netrebko's nerve. She set the Salzburg Festival on fire in 2002 as Donna Anna in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' and she is returning for a new ''Traviata'' in the big house this summer. According to the box office, the Netrebko ''Traviata'' is proving the hottest ticket since the death of the festival's longtime figurehead Herbert von Karajan 15 years ago.
 Salzburg, in its more limited way, is investing in Ms. Netrebko the way the Met once did in Mr. Pavarotti and Mr. Domingo, who have both credited the Met with consolidating their pre-eminence.
 ''Would it be presumptuous for me to agree with that?'' Mr. Volpe asked. ''Placido and Luciano always did more performances here than anywhere else. New York is an important city. The Met is an important house. And there was the relationship with our music director, James Levine, which allowed them to develop.'' 
 After three decades at the Met and 15 years as general manager of the Met, with just one season left to go, are there any dreams Mr. Volpe will leave unfulfilled?
 ''What's needed most today?'' he asked by way of reply. ''It wouldn't be a project. It's not a question of which opera and which singer. When I started at the Met, in 1990, we did 22 operas a year. Now we're getting close to 30.
 ''If I could wave a wand, we'd have 37, with a maximum of six performances each, all of them thoroughly rehearsed. No long runs with different casts wandering in and out. Certain artists -- Karita, Renee -- wouldn't do just one run a season but a couple. That would solve the problems of today as never before.''


CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 17 about the importance of star singers to the Metropolitan Opera misidentified a New York choral group with which the tenor Salvatore Licitra appeared during the three-year gap between his Met performances. It was the Collegiate Chorale, not the New York Choral Society. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Met stars, present and past: From left, John Relyea, Renee Fleming and Kobie van Rensburg in the Met's ''Rodelinda.'' Below left, Leontyne Price, right, in her Met opera debut, with Helen Vanni in ''Il Trovatore.'' Below, right, Birgit Nilsson in ''Tristan und Isolde.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Alfred Eisenstaedt/Time Life Pictures/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); OPERA (90%); TICKET SALES (75%); MUSIC (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



341 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: There's Networking, and There's Working

BYLINE: By Tanya Mohn. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE conversation over dinner in an East Harlem office building was wonderfully ordinary on a recent Monday night.
 Tanya Velazquez, 29, who is unemployed, spoke to the dozen or so women about volunteering, and her hope that it would help her find paid work.
 Samantha Meyers, 21, was praised after she told the group of her success on a long-anticipated high school equivalency exam just days before. Another woman complained about her job. 
 ''It's worse than a soap opera,'' she said. ''I just don't want to be there anymore.''
 The women were participants in Living for Today and Tomorrow, an empowerment course meant to improve the self-esteem of unemployed and underemployed women. 
 Shamika Green, 21, who graduated from the program months before, had returned to regale the group with stories of her work at the Bronx Zoo, one of two part-time jobs.
 ''I know all the answers,'' she said, explaining how she imparts her newly learned knowledge to visitors. ''I tell them that the dolphin'' is one of the few animals ''to use sex as a social tool, and they're like, 'Wow.' And lobsters have teeth in their stomachs. It's so cool. I love my job.''
 The exchange was what Lizzette Dunn-Barcelona had in mind when she created Living for Today and Tomorrow in 2004 as an auxiliary to the group Strive, which stands for Support and Training Result in Valuable Employees, a job training and placement organization in East Harlem. 
 ''We felt women needed something,'' said Ms. Dunn-Barcelona, the executive director of the job training group. ''They have special challenges. They take care of the children and household and often the men, but who takes care of them?''
 Many of these women have no support systems, and sometimes are discouraged from pursuing work, Ms. Dunn-Barcelona said, so for three hours a week for eight weeks, 15 women gather to schmooze and network in an informal setting over a catered dinner, held on this particular night in the East 123rd Street offices of the job training organization. 
 The program is financed by a $52,660 grant from the Oak Foundation, an international philanthropic organization. There were six eight-week sessions in 2004, and five are planned for this year.
 The participants receive a stipend of $125 as an incentive to attend the program, as well as money for baby-sitting and transportation. 
 ''The point is, their time is valued,'' Ms. Dunn-Barcelona said. 
 The women said they welcomed the program. ''It's good to be with other females, coming together to share our experiences,'' Ms. Green said. ''It helped me to realize I'm not as alone as I think. Rich people have their book clubs, but us poor people don't have that. When you come here, you can open up without any consequences. You are not judged. It feels good.''
 Ms. Green, who was orphaned at 4 and became a mother at 17, said she had been the victim of physical, emotional and sexual abuse. Like many of the women, she is a single mother. 
 Hardships like poverty and unemployment are typical of the participants, said Amy Ripley, the director of Living for Today and Tomorrow. ''Yet somehow they manage to get their shoes and socks on and go out the door and face the world,'' she said. ''They don't realize what survivors they really are. We use that as a source of strength, a jumping-off point.''
 Their challenge is to leverage whatever skills they have into a job they want, said Susan R. Meyer, a life-work coach who leads the sessions and developed the curriculum. 
 Many of the women have been on welfare all their lives and have never held a job, Dr. Meyer said, but they have managed a household, planned meals and negotiated with relatives. That knowledge can be carried into the work force, she said. The first hour is taken up by informal conversation, followed by a two-hour workshop on subjects like stress management and setting goals. 
 Gail D. Johnson, 50, said the exercises helped her get back on her feet. ''They make you think about your life, what you're doing and where you're going,'' said Ms. Johnson, who was unemployed for two years before joining the program. She now works as an administrative assistant for Wireless Generation, a creator of educational software.
 ''It is good knowing others are interested in what you've done for the week,'' she said. ''People tend to work a little harder when people are watching.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BETTER JOB PROSPECTS -- Susan R. Meyer led other women in a discussion of skills and traits helpful in the workplace at a recent meeting of Living for Today and Tomorrow. (Photo by Marvi Lacar for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (73%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); CHARITIES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



342 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Ease Poor Nations' Debt Eludes Rich Nations

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
The world's richest nations failed to reach a deal to forgive $40 billion in debt owed by the world's poorest nations, though their finance ministers affirmed Saturday that they were still pursuing the goal.
 The main disagreement is between the United States and Europe over an American approach that would reduce money available for very low-interest lending to poor countries. 
 The push for debt relief is part of a broader effort to aid the world's poorest countries, among them Ghana, Malawi and Zambia, which lack funds to provide the most basic health and education services for their people. 
 The United States favors canceling the debts that poor countries owe to the World Bank and the African Development Bank, which finance antipoverty programs on concessional terms, but has made no commitment to make up the money the two banks would lose in loan repayments. The Europeans want the rich countries to make such a commitment. 
 The departing World Bank president, James D. Wolfensohn, who opposes the American approach, said in an interview that about 20 percent of the money his group lends to poor countries is from loan repayments, and that the percentage is rising. If that money is not replaced when debts are canceled, the bank will have less money to lend, he said.
 He credited the United States with increasing aid to poor countries generally, but on this issue, he said, ''As managers, you have to expect us to fight tooth and nail.'' 
 Britain, which is leading an effort to double foreign aid to Africa, has already begun paying off 10 percent of the debt of 22 poor countries and has committed to continue doing so for at least a decade.
 In addition to the $40 billion owed to the World Bank and the African Development Bank, the poor nations owe the International Monetary Fund $9 billion. 
 An International Monetary Fund report from March lays out how the fund could sell off some of its $45 billion in gold to finance debt relief.
 The British support the sale of the gold. The United States is opposed. At a news conference on Saturday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said the United States was focused on the World Bank and the African Development Fund because they hold most of the poor nations' debt. 
 In their public statements at the end of the talks on Saturday, American and British officials were optimistic about reaching a deal in July, when the heads of the Group of 8 -- Russia and the major industrialized nations, the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- meet in Scotland.
 ''I'm pleased our friends from the U.K. support 100 percent debt cancellation,'' Mr. Snow said; he repeated the American position favoring grants to loans for poor countries.
 A spokesman for the British Treasury said, '' We've kept up momentum ahead of the G-8 summit.''
 Before the start of the Scotland meeting, Mr. Wolfensohn will have been succeeded by Paul D. Wolfowitz, the former deputy secretary of state. 
 Mr. Wolfowitz has not taken a position publicly on replacing canceled loan repayments.
 ''That will be one of the first real tests of Wolfowitz,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a former chief economist at the World Bank who headed the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration. ''Do his loyalties lie with Bush or the World Bank?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); GHANA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); MALAWI (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



343 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; WEEKEND WITH THE KIDS: SEATTLE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Indoors or Out, A Warm Embrace

BYLINE: By DAVID LASKIN

 BODY:
RAIN. Coffee. A snow-capped volcano looming over the skyline and a chilly inland sea spread at its feet. At first glance, Seattle's claims to fame may not look all that enticing to those with children in tow. But glance again. Despite the damp, Seattle envelops children in a warm embrace. Coffee culture means lots of opportunities to snag hot chocolates at cool local cafes. Mountains and water are close enough for a calming afternoon ferry ride, short woodland hike or alpine day trip. 
 Forget the umbrella. Seattle is an unbuttoned, outdoor city where breaking for rain is unheard of. Though toddlers may need to be carried up the steeper hills, downtown is eminently walkable. Funky, kid-friendly neighborhoods like Fremont and Capitol Hill are 10 minutes from the city center by car or bus.

CULTURE
 Though the downtown Seattle Art Museum, 100 University Street, (206) 654-3100, has some striking Native American masks and Abstract Expressionist canvases that might catch a child's eye, you'll probably get more smiles at the Seattle Aquarium at Pier 59, 1483 Alaskan Way, (206) 386-4300; www.seattleaquarium.org; $12; $8 for kids 6 to 12, $5 for 3 to 5, 2 and under free. Huge tanks show off everything from cuddly sea otter pups to giant Pacific octopus. 
 The leafy campus of the Seattle Center north of downtown is a catchall cultural center anchored by a huge concave fountain that children find irresistible. Teens will tow you to the Experience Music Project, (206) 367-5483, www.emplive.com, a high-tech rock 'n' roll temple with loads of artifacts (Janis Joplin's fringed dress! Kurt Cobain's guitar!) and a sound lab where your kids can sing and shout. ''Bob Dylan's American Journey, 1956-1966'' featuring seven listening stations and tons of Dylan memorabilia stays up until Sept. 5. Admission is $19.95; $14.95 for ages 7 to 17; 6 and under free. 
 With younger children, the Pacific Science Center, 200 Second Avenue North, (206) 443-2001, www.pacsci.org, is a better bet for its exhibits of dinosaurs, butterflies and hands-on stuff like a two-ton granite ball that kids can spin with their little hands. Two IMAX theaters offer big-screen diversion. Admission is $10; $7 for 3 to 12; free under 3. Add $5 for an IMAX show.

DOING DOWNTOWN
 Seattle's downtown is big and varied enough to fill a weekend, but small enough to cover on foot with small fry. You can start the day at the historic Pike Place Market, www.pikeplacemarket.com, the hive of fruit and flower stalls, fishmongers, restaurants, cafes and craft shops sandwiched between First Avenue and the waterfront. The doughnuts at Daily Dozen Doughnuts (off First Avenue near the Market's trademark pig statue) are locally renowned, as are the French baguettes and croissants at Le Panier Bakery at the corner of Stewart and Pike Place. Kids' picks include Market Magic, a magic store in the ''down under'' (below street level) section of the main Market building, the Shy Giant Frozen Yogurt (Corner Market Building) for smoothies, and the Great Wind Up in the Economy Atrium with a ton of wind-up toys. 
 A 15-minute stroll south along First Avenue brings you to slightly seedy Pioneer Square, the other historic downtown hub with blocks of gallery-filled neo-Romanesque brick buildings. If they get to browse the old-fashioned wooden puzzles and nesting dolls at Wood Shop Toys (320 First Avenue South), then you get a spell at Foster/White Gallery (123 South Jackson). More coffee? Torrefazione Italia cafe on the pedestrian mall at 320 Occidental Avenue South is one of the city's prettiest.

DOWNTIME
 With water everywhere, boating is an ideal way to relax. The easiest cruising option is the Bainbridge Island Ferry at Pier 52; phone 511 in Washington State or (206) 464-6400); www.wsdot.wa.gov/ferries. In the course of the 35-minute Puget Sound crossing, you'll see the two mountain ranges that cradle the city and the ghostly volcanic cone of Mount Rainier, which blushes pink at sunset. Boats leave every 45 minutes or so; walk-on passengers pay $5.70. 
 For a more intimate aquatic experience, rent a canoe or rowboat at the Waterfront Activities Center behind Husky Stadium at the University of Washington, just north and east of downtown, (206) 543-9433, and ply the calm waters of the canal that connects Lake Union and Lake Washington; $7.50 an hour.

OUTDOORS
 Discovery Park, 500-plus acres in the Magnolia neighborhood north and west of downtown, offers both beach and trail. If your kids are under 6, you can get a pass at the Visitors Center (off the east parking lot) and drive to the secluded beach at West Point Lighthouse. Otherwise, it's a 1.5-mile hike through meadow and woods. For a more urban beach experience, take a 20-minute drive south of downtown to Alki Beach in West Seattle, a waterside promenade backed by apartments and cafes.
 If you want to stretch your legs (or roll your stroller) closer to downtown, join le tout Seattle on the Burke-Gilman Trail, a 14.1-mile paved urban path that winds along the north shore of the city's lakes and canals. A good access point is Gas Work Parks at the head of Lake Union.

WHERE TO EAT
 Cutter's Bayhouse, 2001 Western Avenue, (206) 448-4884, at the north end of Pike Place Market is one of the city's kid-friendlier water-view restaurants. Crayons appear along with menus. The seafood (oven-roasted Alaskan halibut stuffed with Dungeness crab is $25.95 at dinner, $18.50 at lunch) is fresh and well-prepared; the children's menu features burgers and fish and chips; $7.95, with beverage and sundae.
 Kaspar's near the Seattle Center on 19 West Harrison Street, (206) 298-0123, is one of those rare upscale restaurants that welcome kids with open arms. Restless tykes can tour the kitchen and help assemble their own desserts. While you dine on exquisite diver scallops with bacon sauce ($22), they can tuck into three-cheese macaroni ($5).
 Blue C Sushi, 3411 Fremont Avenue North, (206) 633-3411, is worth the trip to Fremont, a hop north of downtown. Sushi dishes ($1.50 to $4 for yellowtail) and tempura ($3 for shrimp) circulate on a conveyor belt, while Japanese anime videos flicker on a big screen. (A second one was set to open today in the University Village mall.)

WHERE TO STAY
 Seattle's waterfront trolley, always popular with children, stops right outside the Edgewater, 2411 Alaskan Way, (206) 728-7000, www.edgewaterhotel.com, on Puget Sound. The hotel provides bikes to use in nearby Myrtle Edwards Park. Waterfront rooms with two double beds are $299 to $359; city-facing doubles are $179 to $209.
 The Fairmont Olympic, 411 University Street, (206) 621-1700, www.fairmont.com/seattle, though rather imposing and elegant, goes all-out for children, with kid-size bathrobes, a children's tea in the lobby, milk and cookies vouchers and an indoor pool. The Animal Adventure package at $369 a night gets you a king bed and sleep sofa along with four tickets to the aquarium and zoo. A standard double (sleeps four) without the package runs $319.
 At the Mayflower Park Hotel, 405 Olive Way, (206) 623-8700, www.mayflowerpark.com, the lobby opens into the atrium of the Westlake Center indoor shopping mall. The $265 a night Family Fun package includes four tickets (for two adults, two kids) to the monorail, the Space Needle observation deck, Experience Music Project and Pacific Science Center. Otherwise, you can sleep up to five in a standard double for $219.


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Bainbridge Island ferry crossing Puget Sound. At Blue C Sushi in the Fremont neighborhood. Taking in the view at the top of the Seattle Space Needle. (Photographs by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COFFEE (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); CITIES (75%); MAMMALS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (67%); POP & ROCK (64%) Travel and Vacations; Children and Youth

PERSON: David Laskin

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Seattle (Wash); Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



344 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Thunder? Or Is It Inflation?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WALL STREET is prepared for some bad news on inflation this week, with forecasts for an increase of 0.6 percent in the Producer Price Index for finished goods in March and a 0.5 percent jump in the Consumer Price Index.
 The indexes' core rates, which exclude food and energy, are expected to show smaller gains -- just 0.2 percent each, according to Bloomberg News. That may be comforting to Wall Street and the Federal Reserve, but consumers pay higher prices every day. 
 In the 12 months through February, the price of gasoline jumped 14.7 percent. Chicken was up 5.2 percent; pork, 6.3 percent; and white bread, 6.4 percent. Tobacco and smoking products were up 5 percent, and medical care and legal services, 4.3 percent.
 Even the core rates for the producer and consumer indexes are rising faster than they have in years. The core P.P.I. was up 2.8 percent over the 12 months through February, the biggest climb since the 12 months ended in November 1995. The core C.P.I. is up 2.4 percent over the same period, its fastest pace since the period ended in August 2002.
 The producer index is due on Tuesday and the consumer index on Wednesday.

OTHER DATA -- Housing starts for March are forecast to show a 4.3 percent decline, to an annual rate of 2.1 million, while the leading indicators are expected to be down 0.3 percent.

EUROPEAN STOCKS -- Massimo Capuano, the president of the Borsa Italiana, Italy's stock exchange, brought representatives of Italian companies to New York last week to drum up interest.
 He said trading in Italian stocks by investors outside Italy, whether in Europe or in the United States, was still hampered by differences in settlement and other post-trading issues.
 Even if these differences are resolved, he is not betting that the groundwork will be in place for a complete consolidation of European markets. 
 ''Today, there are definitely too many markets,'' he said.
 ''But will there be one European stock exchange?'' he asked. ''I don't think so. You need competition between two or more players. This is the case in the U.S., where you have more than one exchange.''
 One possibility is having two exchanges that trade both large- and small-capitalization stocks but differ somewhat in the type of companies they trade, the way the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market do in the United States.
 But he said he was sure of one thing he wants: that the Borsa Italiana control its home market.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change in Consumer Price Index from 2004 through estimated 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); HOUSING STARTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



345 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES/QUEUEING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: For These Ladies in Waiting, Work's the Thing

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
WORK was scarce one recent morning, so Javier Gomez volunteered his services as an interpreter. ''Rosa is saying she needs to feed her kids,'' said Mr. Gomez, a 24-year-old unemployed construction worker from Ecuador. ''That's why she stands here every day, waiting for a job, just like the rest of these ladies.'' 
 On a crowded corner at 37th Street and Eighth Avenue, beneath a sign for ''Wonder Foods,'' a long line of Hispanic immigrant women leaned against the wall, saying little to one another. With a lot of coffee and maybe a bit of luck, they hoped to find a day's worth of work. 
 ''Yesterday, I took a job in a factory, cleaning floors,'' said Rosa Vega, an Ecuadorean who lives in Ridgewood, Brooklyn. ''The man pay me $9 an hour. I hope he come back today.''
 As she spoke, her dark eyes panned the bustling streets for potential employers. Like everyone else, she hoped to be among the few sent to work, either at a factory, an office building, a restaurant, or any place where cleaning, sewing and stocking shelves needed doing. 
 An Asian woman appeared with the promise of $7 an hour for unloading boxes at a grocery store. She wanted three women, and was quickly surrounded by a dozen volunteers. 
 Mrs. Vega was not among them. ''I'm still hoping for the factory man,'' she said, glancing at another woman's watch. 
 According to Mr. Gomez, the line is usually made up of women from countries like Mexico, Ecuador and Colombia. On a good day, it includes at least two dozen women.
 Similar lines exist in Jackson Heights, Queens, where men wait along Roosevelt Avenue for the chance to haul, hammer, lift and sweat for a day. And many suburban corners are packed with men and women looking for construction or landscaping jobs. 
 ''But this is different, because this is Manhattan,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''It is a land of opportunity within the land of opportunity.''
 Just then, the line surged forward, and an older man wearing a black baseball cap approached. ''I need three men for some heavy lifting,'' he announced loudly. 
 Looking around, he saw only Mr. Gomez. ''Where are all of the men?'' the man in the baseball cap demanded.
 Smiling, Mr. Gomez pointed across the street. Through a floating maze of briefcases and taxis, a line of men in jeans and work boots could be seen standing under a sign for Gray's Papaya. ''Women on one side of the street, men on the other,'' Mr. Gomez explained. ''We try to keep things organized.''
 In the store window, a blinking neon sign flashed with the words ''Recession Special: Save $1.'' But as Mr. Gomez pointed out, ''That sign is for the hot dogs, not the men.'' VINCENT M. MALLOZZI


GRAPHIC: Photo: At a busy Midtown corner, employer and employee meet anew every day. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (79%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



346 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2844 words

HEADLINE: On Molokai, A Land Faithful To Its Roots

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY. 
ADAM NAGOURNEY is the national political correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IT was described as a remote and stunning drive to the east end of Molokai. It might more accurately have been described as a drive to the end of the earth.
 On a staggeringly beautiful morning in February, the soft sunlight shimmering through the Hawaiian mountains, we set off on the 26-mile drive to the trailhead of a hike through the overgrown Halawa Valley, where low stretches of stone walls stand as the only archaeological evidence of the seventh-century settlement of temples and the taro patches that once thrived there. Our Jeep followed a road that snaked along the beach, practically hugging the surf, before lifting us into the mountains and dropping us in the valley. We never encountered another vehicle, and just as well: For the final seven miles, the road dwindled down to a narrow single lane before just conceding to nature and turning into a dirt trail. 
 There we were greeted by Lawrence Aki, a guide who would be taking us and six other visitors -- an unusually large group, Mr. Aki said later -- on the four-mile round-trip hike, a gentle climb up to isolated Moaula Falls. The Halawa Valley is a patchwork of private land, and you are prohibited from hiking to the falls without the escort of a paid guide, typically a local property owner. It was an assignment that Mr. Aki took quite seriously. 
 We were almost at the falls when Mr. Aki heard the rustle of another party scuffling up the rocky trail. Trespassers! Mr. Aki, a man of considerable girth, directed a member of our party to turn his video camera up the trail. ''Evidence,'' he said somberly, and I do not think he was kidding. He and an assistant went back to talk to the five interlopers, and after a conversation that lasted 10 minutes, convinced them of the wisdom of paying the required $75 apiece to join our tour.
 The sound of water rushing 250 feet down a sheer cliff and crashing into a pond, sending a cool, moist breeze through the woods, signaled the end of our trek. We broke out of the forest and into the clearing, leaving the mosquitoes behind, and everyone -- including Mr. Aki, for whom this is a daily trip -- paused in silence at the sight. Peering up into the sky, you could just make out the top of the waterfall streaming out of the boulders and trees at the top of the ridge, and follow its path as it tumbled into the cold, rocky pond at our feet. The only sounds were the water and the birds; there was not a road within miles, and it seemed fair to say that at that moment, our small group accounted for the entire population of east Molokai.
 Molokai is an island of splendid isolation far removed from the resorts off Maui or the mai tai night life of Honolulu. It does not even pretend to compete with, say, the surfing on Oahu's north shore or the snorkeling on the north coast of Kauai. Instead, it offers a nearly complete retreat from tourism and crowds, with vast stretches of dense wilderness, miles of hiking trails and rutted dirt roads leading through forests and along volcanic mountains, and a coastline with cliffs soaring thousands of feet out of the ocean. 
 Which is precisely why my partner, Ben, and I came here. There are no traffic lights on Molokai, no buildings higher than two stories, one elevator, no Starbucks, just two hotels and three gas stations, one of which closes at 1 p.m. every day. On morning jogs, the only competition for space on the road comes from wild roosters announcing the approach of dawn. 
 The nights are as still as any you can imagine, save for the sound of rolling waves, and so dark that the skies blaze with stars that I had never known existed. And since it is something of a rogue island, Molokai has been largely, though not completely, spared from what has become the biggest blight on the Hawaiian wilderness over the past 10 years: the assault of tourist-bearing helicopters. (There are no helicopter charter companies on the island; those who want to tour Molokai by air have to charter one in Maui or Oahu.)
 From the moment you arrive here, you will have no doubt that you are in the middle of the Pacific Ocean -- though there might be moments when you forget that this is now the 21st century. 
 None of this is by accident. It is, rather, the result of a resolute attempt by some islanders to shut out the very tourism that has shaped the economy and, many Molokians would argue, corrupted the culture of other Hawaiian islands over the past half century. In 2003, Molokai activists blocked the landing of cruise ships, dispatching a few canoes out into the harbor in a colorful protest that was both memorable and devastatingly effective. And there seems to be more property here posted with signs warning ''Kapu'' -- a foreboding ''keep out'' directive to potential trespassers that literally translates as forbidden, or taboo -- than anywhere else in Hawaii. While the signs are really directed at the marijuana growers who have found prosperity by squatting in the isolation of the lush valley jungles, they certainly add to the sense of forbiddance.
 ''We've seen what happened to Waikiki, we've seen what's happened to Maui and what's happened to Kauai and what has happened on the Big Island and we want no part of it,'' said Walter Ritte Jr., a Hawaiian activist who has led many of the protests. ''They've given our best resources to the tourism industry and asked us to change the sheets. We've lost our cultural resources all because of this huge money-making thing called tourism.'' 
 So it is that tourism has been on a steady decline for a decade: 74,082 visitors flew to Molokai last year, a 20 percent drop from 2003, in a year when Hawaiian Air abolished its jet service here, according to the Molokai Visitors Association. (Now, the only way to get to Molokai is by prop plane or ferry.) By contrast, Maui had 30 times as many visitors as Molokai last year. 
 The cost of this resistance can be seen in the big resort property on the northwest corner of this island, which has been vacant since 2000; the anemic main street in Kaunakakai, which comes as close as there is to a downtown here; and the all-too-common tales of island residents who must get up every Monday morning and fly to Honolulu for a week of work, because of the lack of jobs on Molokai. 
 Sandy Beddow, until recently director of the Molokai Visitors Association, while in the midst of talking about the considerable allure of this island, sighed as she all but acknowledged that the job title she held represented the victory of hope over reality. ''There is resistance here -- we don't deny that,'' she said. ''We get a lot of bad press, I've got to tell you. Any time there's a protest against a cruise ship or a building development, that's the kind of press we get. It puts people off.''
 For all that, if ''kapu'' is the message that some people are sending, it is certainly not the sentiment of the whole island. And in any event, you would be wise to ignore it. By the time Ben and I reluctantly decamped from the island, we had decided not only that we would come back but also that we would stay longer next time.
 We settled on Molokai after considering it and Lanai in search of a Hawaiian destination we could explore without bumping shoulders with a deluge of tourists in Hawaiian shirts, tropical drinks in hand. We came by turboprop on Island Air from Maui, having boarded without going through any kind of security at all, our first suggestion that we were stepping back in time. 
 We spent our first two nights at the Hotel Molokai in the central part of the island. After checking in late on a Monday afternoon, we headed for dinner at the hotel restaurant, by the pool and overlooking the ocean. We had the good fortune, if you could call it that, of being there on karaoke night. I would recommend the food there -- we had a grilled mahi-mahi smothered in a butter-lemon sauce, and a tough slab of pork loin -- only if you are nostalgic for the cuisine of your college dorm cafeteria.
 But no matter. The next morning we got up early for a six-mile hike along the cliffs of Kalaupapa Peninsula, a trip that would take us to perhaps the island's most famous institution: a leper colony created by King Kamehameha V in 1865, and still active today. 
 To go -- and it's definitely a journey worth making -- you have to make a reservation. Only a limited number of visitors are allowed to enter the park each day. Some people take a very short flight from the other side of Molokai to a landing strip just outside the colony. Others ride in a procession of mules that slowly winds its way down the cliff to the shore. We hiked the trail, and I would recommend it with some caveats. It is a mule trail, which means navigating a steep, shelved decline through 26 switchbacks, slippery with dirt and mule dung, hardly the most inviting terrain. (We encountered only four other hikers along our six-mile trek.) The 1,500-foot climb back up is actually easier, if not downright invigorating: Either way, you will encounter breaks in the foliage that permit views of some of the most inaccessible coastline in the world.
 However you get there, you will find yourself in a place that was chosen because it so hard to get to -- or, more precisely, to escape -- as becomes clear when you hear the tales about how lepers 100 years ago were deposited into the churning ocean waters just offshore and told, in effect, to sink or swim. About 30 people still live there today, along with some employees, though they are there by choice and they call themselves residents rather than lepers. 
 These striking geographical features contribute to a place that is at once very beautiful, if a little disconcerting, and absolutely compelling, particularly if you are lucky enough to draw Richard Marks, who has lived most of his life there, as your guide. 
 Stopping frequently to catch his breath, speaking so quietly that our group nestled as close as it could to try to catch every word and tale, Mr. Marks told us the story of the colony, a searing indictment made all the more powerful by his understated tone. He drove us on an old school bus to the small cottages that he and the other residents call home, and to the church with holes drilled in the floor that allowed lepers to spit during services without having to leave. 
 Our second day took us out to the east end of the island and that hike up the valley to the Moaula Falls. Our guide, Mr. Aki, a landowner who has planted taro on land that was once abandoned, and a former director of the Molokai Visitors Association, has a decidedly more welcoming view of tourism than some of his fellow islanders. ''People have been hurt economically by this,'' he told me, mentioning that his son-in-law was one of those who were forced to commute to Honolulu for work. 
 We spent our third night at the Lodge and Beach Village at Molokai Ranch at the western end of the island. The ranch consists of a main lodge at the top of the hill, with expansive Western-theme rooms, many offering sweeping views across the bluffs looking out to the ocean. We chose to stay at the remote beach village that was a seven-mile drive along a severely rutted clay road, 1,200 feet down and behind a locked gate. 
 At the end of this jarring drive was a quiet colony of 40 two-bedroom canvas bungalows, most of them unoccupied. Instead of a refrigerator in the room (we're talking solar power here), there was an ice chest. We looked out at Kaupoa Beach through the screened windows of the tent, from the deck or from the hammocks that hang from trees around the property. 
 We had the option of driving back to the formal dining room in the lodge, which offers what is the closest thing to serious cuisine on the island. Instead we chose to eat at one of the tables by the water, where, on a pitch-black night, a cook grilled us steaks and mahi-mahi to go along with salad and chocolate-coconut bars for dessert. Eating by starlight and candlelight by the ocean is hard to beat, and the lack of lighting might very well have compensated for any shortcoming in the food preparation. (If you want wine or alcohol to drink, be sure to buy it at the package store back by the ranch; none is sold by the beach, and that is one long seven-mile drive to go back.)
 We spent the last morning lounging on the hammock, trying to choose between visiting what was described to us as one of the best (albeit one of the only) beaches on the island, an expanse of sandy isolation on the west shore, or heading for another hike. We chose to hike, though I'm fairly certain I saw Ben blanch at the notion of a third trek in a row. 
 For this hike, we had to take our Jeep -- four-wheel drive only for this one -- up to Waikolu Lookout to hike down into the valley. The 10-mile drive easily takes 45 minutes. Halfway up, we ran across the camp of Robin Baker, an artist and slightly eccentric (but decidedly talented) wood carver who has made his home and studio right in the middle of nowhere. Following the instructions painted on a sign, we rang the bell by the gate and walked in, where we were rewarded with a tour of his workroom and his showroom, and a hand-sketched map for the best hike to take from the lookout.
 Unfortunately, when we finally made our way to the lookout, the valley was shrouded in clouds. My experience in Hawaii is that when that happens, even if you have hiked a half hour, the best thing to do is leave and just come back the next day. This time, though, we had a plane to catch, so we reluctantly turned the Jeep around and headed for the airport.

NO MAINLAND NEWSPAPERS. NO HIGH-SPEED INTERNET. NO PROBLEM.

WHAT TO EXPECT
 Molokai is not the first Hawaiian Island to head for if you are in search of snorkeling, surfing or swimming. Its selection of beaches is limited. And if you want a few days of resort luxury, look elsewhere. Cellphone service is agonizingly sparse. There are no mainland newspapers to be had, at least that I could find. Easy-to-find high-speed Internet service? Please. 
 At present there are just two hotels on the island, though there are four B&B's and a range of condos and rentals. And while there has been a seismic improvement in the quality of food in places like Maui and Kauai in the past few years, that culinary evolution has so far bypassed Molokai. Even Roy's -- the otherwise ever-present chain of Pacific Rim restaurants that pioneered high-end dining in Hawaii since 1988 -- has no outpost here.
 You can find Budget Rent a Car and Dollar Rent a Car at the Hoolehua Airport. Reserve in advance, and think Jeep if you wanted to explore some of the island's back roads.

Where to Stay
 The Lodge and Beach Village at Molokai Ranch in Maunaloa, (888) 627-8082, wwwmolokairanch.com, on the west end of the island, provided one of the best nights I have ever spent in a hotel room -- if you would call a canvas tent built around a frame on Kaupoa Beach, using solar power and a pull-down handle for a shower, a hotel room. The 40 canvas bungalows are $268 to $358 a night, double occupancy. The ranch's more traditional Hawaiian Lodge has 22 spacious ocean-view rooms at $398 to $478 a night. A special package through June 15 offers rates from $138 a person at the Beach Village and $178 at the Lodge, with breakfast and one activity (golf, trail ride or round-up, or choice of therapies at the spa). 
 Hotel Molokai, on Kamehameha V Highway (Mile Marker 2), (808) 553-5347, www.hotelmolokai.com, is funky if serviceable, though it has seen better days, if not decades. Ask for a room by the ocean; it's worth the extra cost. Rates are $90 to $150, double occupancy.

WHERE TO EAT
 Paddlers Inn, 10 Mohala Street, Kaunakakai; (808) 553-5256. Up the street from the Molokai Hotel, by a parking lot, the inn has indoor and outdoor seating. The brightly lighted dining room is a little short of atmosphere but the food -- your standard island menu of seafood, steak and salads -- is more than adequate. The restaurant, open daily, shuts down by 9 p.m. Dinner for two, about $100. 
 Kanemitsu Bakery and Coffee Shop, 79 Ala Malama Street, Kaunakakai; (808) 553-5855. They bake lavosh here, a crisp, light flatbread in a variety of flavors (try the sesame or cinnamon), and Molokai bread, a round white loaf -- definitely worth a detour. The coffee shop is open 11:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. daily.

TOURS
 Halawa Valley/Falls Cultural Hike: Contact Lawrence Aki at (808)-553-9803. The price is $75. Information on this and other hikes: www.molokai-aloha.com/hikes.
 Kalaupapa National Historical Park: A trip to the island's leper colony is by reservation only -- best to book before you arrive on the island -- and most people take a mule down or hike in. The mule ride is $165, which includes a tour of the colony with a Damien Tours guide, entry fee to the park and lunch. However, even if you want to hike down yourself, you need to reserve a spot on the tour, and space is limited; $40. No tours on Sunday. Contact the Molokai Mule Ride, (808) 567-6088, www.muleride.com, or Damien Tours at (808) 567-6171; damientours@aol.com. ADAM NAGOURNEY


GRAPHIC: Photos: Graveyard near Molokai's north shore at Kalaupapa National Historical Park, home to a former leper colony. On a mule ride to the colony. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A canvas bungalow at the Molokai Ranch Beach Village on Kaupoa Beach. Hiking a trail in the Halawa Valley on the east end of the island. View of Kalaupapa Peninsula. From Top A road sign discourages outside developers. In Kaunakakai, Molokai's main town. Gravesite of Father Damien, who spent years treating the sick at the leper colony, now Kalaupapa National Historical Park, on the peninsula. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 10, 11)Map of Molokai highlighting points of interest. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); HIKING (90%); CIVIL TRESPASS (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); BEACHES (70%) Travel and Vacations; Walking 

PERSON: Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Hawaii; Molokai (Hawaii)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



347 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: A New Life for a Park And Its Neighborhood

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY STEVENS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
FIFTEEN years ago, when Jeff O'Brien moved to MacArthur Park, near the city's downtown district, the neighborhood was run-down and notorious for crime, drugs and poverty. 
 At the time, though, it was all that he could afford. He was making a living as a messenger and a part-time bass player and sharing an apartment with a group of art students. 
 ''There were lots of drug addicts and homeless people,'' Mr. O'Brien, who is now 36, said of the neighborhood, ''and I watched crazy things happen on a regular basis.'' 
 A lot has changed since then. The park itself has been revitalized, and the surrounding historic buildings are being restored, mirroring the renaissance in the park. There are aggressive cleanup efforts by local civic groups and businesses and a more visible police presence, which have created a feeling of optimism in the neighborhood. Most of the surrounding properties are rentals, and their rates are creeping up.
 The elegant New York City-style apartment buildings with restored neon signage have been featured in film and television. Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton introduced MacArthur Park to the nation many years ago, and later films like ''Chinatown'' and the song ''MacArthur Park,'' first recorded by Richard Harris and then later by Donna Summer, put it on the pop-culture map. Dark cityscapes in police dramas and action films continue to be shot in the neighborhood, though the images they depict are becoming less the reality.
 ''The beauty of these old buildings is a major attraction,'' said Louis J. Bernardy, the president and chief executive of Los Angeles Housing Partnership, a nonprofit housing developer. Among the properties the company owns and operates is the Bryson, an apartment building at 2701 Wilshire Boulevard that is on the National Register of Historic Places.
 Though Mr. Bernardy is pleased with the ongoing changes in MacArthur Park, he and others now worry that the neighborhood may become too pricey for some residents. 
 ''It's important as the neighborhood becomes more desirable that there are affordable apartments for existing tenants, the elderly and lower-income residents,'' Mr. Bernardy said. 
 Frank Acevedo, the director of community development for the Institute for Urban Research and Development, a neighborhood organization, predicted that ''the rents are going to go up.'' He says that he often tells people who might be concerned about increases to hold onto apartments in older buildings because the Los Angeles rent-control laws will protect them.
 ''There has been an incredible shift in housing due to the cleanup of the park,'' said Mr. Acevedo, who also runs his own real estate company and lives and works out of his loft in the American Cement Building, which sits along the park. His building is a modernist gem built in 1961, converted into loft space more than three years ago. It is architecturally significant because of its honeycomb cement pattern. 
 Recently, as Mr. Acevedo spoke on his cellphone while driving around the park after dark, two women joggers passed by. ''A few years ago jogging around the park at night would have been suicide,'' he said, ''but that's not the case anymore.'' 
 A neighborhood organization, Alliance: MacArthur Park, has been responsible for bringing cultural events to the park and free boat rides on the weekends. It has also encouraged businesses like Mama's Hot Tamales to sell from pushcarts in the park. There are plans, too, to restore the band shell and eventually install wireless technology, which would provide Internet access in the park. 
 With increased police patrols, the crime rate in the park and the surrounding area has dropped dramatically. Homicides in the Rampart Division, the police district that includes the MacArthur Park area, have declined from about 140 in 1994 to 27 last year, according to police statistics. 
 ''The police presence has raised awareness and also allowed people to utilize the park,'' Mr. Acevedo said.
 Mr. O'Brien, for one, likes the changes he's seen. Although he left the neighborhood many years ago, he decided to return three months ago.
 ''If you told me 15 years ago that I would be living in this neighborhood now, I never would have believed you,'' said Mr. O'Brien, a propmaster in the film industry. ''I have a great apartment with park views and I feel safe here.'' 
 Mr. O'Brien, the father of 6-year-old twin boys, with whom he shares custody with his ex-wife, says he is optimistic about the future of the area. 
 ''I am a California native,'' he said. ''I love the idea of apartment living again after spending a lot of time in houses. I think that this neighborhood is only going to get better and better.''
 Mr. O'Brien moved into a rent-controlled apartment in the recently restored Asbury Apartments, which was built in 1924 by Norman W. Alpaugh and Clarence H. Russel. It is currently owned and operated by the Los Angeles Housing Partnership. 
 In its heyday the building was part of a collection of high-rises that appealed to the celebrities and movie executives of the time. Mr. O'Brien pays $1,150 a month for a large one-bedroom with hardwood floors and French doors that lead out onto a terrace. 
 ''This apartment anywhere else in Los Angeles would be significantly higher,'' he said.
 Three years ago, Janice Stevenor-Dale, an interior designer and her husband, Scott Dale, a cinematographer, moved into the American Cement Building with their son Dashiell, now 8. 
 The family was part of the first wave of tenants after the building was converted into loft spaces. They pay $2,000 a month for around 1,800 square feet of space. 
 ''It is changing radically,'' Ms. Stevenor-Dale said of the neighborhood. ''Even in the few short years we have been here I have watched major change take place.'' 
 She says she feels safe and she enjoys the myriad cultural activities offered. The family uses public transportation, mainly the subway, to get to the opera and museums that are just a few blocks away. 
 ''The only thing that we go outside the neighborhood for is education -- we send Dashiell to private school,'' she said.
 Mr. Bernardy says the goal of developers ''is to enhance the spaces and make some of them larger to accommodate growing families,'' and at affordable rents.
 ''By creating a stable tenant base it cuts down on the transients and the issues that come along with those tenants,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CHANGING SCENE -- A view of MacArthur Park, above, as seen from the American Cement Building, pictured at far left. The recently restored Asbury Building, left, was part of a collection of elegant high-rises that once appealed to celebrities. Frank Acevedo has a park view from his loft at the American Cement Building. (Photographs by Claudia Bestor for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RENT CONTROL (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); FILM (76%); TRENDS (73%); CITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (66%); MOVIE FILMING (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%) Restoration and Rehabilitation; Economic Conditions and Trends; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Housing Partnership

PERSON: Louis J Bernardy; Kimberly Stevens

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); MacArthur Park (Los Angeles)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



348 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3728 words

HEADLINE: Striking Gold in Acres of Brownfields

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: LYNDHURST 

 BODY:
ON a cloudy spring morning, workmen spread dark sludge across a large swath of flat ground, a former landfill in the middle of the Meadowlands. Nearby, a steady stream of workers arrived with their truckbeds filled with large chunks of concrete, wood and other discarded construction materials, ready to dump onto the site. 
 The sludge had been dredged from the bottom of Newark Bay, the construction debris left from another development site. Add several million more tons of fill, enclose it and the base is ready for four golf courses and several thousand homes, shops and offices -- all expected to rise from this sprawling site in the shadow of the Manhattan skyline.
 The Meadowlands Golf Project is the most ambitious undertaking of Cherokee Investment Partners, which in the last five years has come to dominate the development landscape of New Jersey. The North Carolina-based equity firm, which specializes in developing contaminated sites, has hundreds of millions of dollars of projects planned for every corner of the state -- from the Meadowlands to Elizabeth, Bayonne and Carteret, and from Camden to Pennsauken to Asbury Park. 
 With 10 to 15 percent of its more than $1 billion in investments tied up in New Jersey, the state has become the single most important component in Cherokee's portfolio. 
 Offering to do what state and local municipalities say they cannot -- clean up and redevelop former industrial sites, known as brownfields -- Cherokee has been welcomed by officials eager to turn contaminated, revenue-draining stretches of land into upscale, tax-producing communities while at the same time assuming the potentially costly liability.
 ''They're taking on some fairly challenging projects,'' said Bradley M. Campbell, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. ''Their willingness to take risks can advance our policy goals.''
 Yet not every official is ready to turn over the keys to the city or the state to an obscure out-of-state company whose track record offers little evidence of what to expect.
 In the Meadowlands, complaints lodged by some residents have led Cherokee to alter the scope of its design and delay plans for a second phase. In Camden, homeowners have filed a court petition to block Cherokee from razing 1,200 homes in the Cramer Hill neighborhood and replacing them with 5,700 new ones intended for affluent buyers. And in Pennsauken, environmental advocates are fighting Cherokee's plan to condemn and develop an industrialized island in the middle of the Delaware River where a pair of eagles have nested.
 What is in the minds of many observers -- from environmental activists to homeowners -- is how a former brick-manufacturing company from North Carolina gained such a foothold in New Jersey in so short a time. On its face, the answer is smart business. 

Expertise and Skilled Consultants
 With expertise in an emerging market and sophisticated leveraged financing, Cherokee has tapped into a state peppered with contaminated former industrial sites, where opportunities are boundless and a commitment to ''smart growth'' has encouraged development in densely populated areas. In addition, the company has enlisted some of the state's most skilled consultants to help guide it through the web of local, state and federal rules and programs available for environmental cleanup.
 ''New Jersey has made a state-level policy decision: 'We want to work with brownfields developers,''' Tom Darden, the 50-year-old chief executive of Cherokee, said in a telephone interview from North Carolina.
 As Mr. Darden acknowledged, ''If you added all the investments we have made and intend to make, New Jersey would be our biggest investment area.'' 
 But for those who are skeptical of the kind of large-scale developments Cherokee proposes, a cloudier picture emerges. By taking advantage of legislation that favors development over preservation, availing itself of government subsidies, appealing to strapped municipalities, and donating generously to local, county and state political candidates and parties -- either directly or through well-connected consultants -- Cherokee finds itself not only with preferred status, but also in a position to affect many of the state's most important land decisions.
 ''Any time somebody dominates a specific industry, they have influence beyond what I think of as appropriate,'' said Andrew Willner, executive director of the New York-New Jersey Baykeeper.
 Mr. Willner said by putting together the capital and the right experts, Cherokee ''has gotten some very interesting contracts.''
 Although the company tries to maintain a low profile, some projects have attracted a great deal of attention, not only from opponents but also from the United States attorney's office, which according to the state's senior environmental official is looking into Cherokee's role in the death of an endangered species of eagle at its Pennsauken project.
 Rich Ochab, spokesman for Cherokee, said the company ''recently became aware that the U.S. attorney has been looking into the facts regarding Petty's Island.''
 ''We have offered to help and be cooperative,'' he said, ''and the investigators have taken us up on that offer.''
 With control over more than 3,200 acres of the state's most developable land, Cherokee has several multimillion-dollar undertakings on the drawing board:
 The Meadowlands Golf Project, a $1 billion development encompassing golf courses, nearly 2,000 homes and a hotel, office and retail complex on former landfill in Rutherford, Lyndhurst and East Arlington.
 A 470-acre site in Bayonne (38 acres of which are a former landfill) to be converted into an 18-hole golf course.
 A $1.2 billion redevelopment of 450 acres in the Cramer Hill neighborhood of Camden where new homes, a golf course and a marina are envisioned.
 In Pennsauken, just north of Camden, another $1 billion plan for 2,700 homes, a marina and a golf course on Petty's Island as well as along several miles of riverfront. 
 It also has 30 acres of land in Elizabeth, where a marina is planned to provide ferry service to Manhattan as well as 275 acres of land the company remediated in Woodbridge and Carteret and recently sold to a developer. And it has committed $30 million in a $1.2 billion shorefront redevelopment scheduled for Asbury Park.
 Yet of all the projects begun or contemplated in New Jersey, the only one that is completed is the Jersey Gardens Mall, opened in 1999, where Cherokee turned what was the Elizabeth city dump into a 1.3-million-square-foot shopping mall.

Low-Key but High-Powered
 Despite its ubiquitous presence in New Jersey -- the firm's offices in the state are on the eighth floor of a building in East Rutherford overlooking the Meadowlands -- most residents have never heard of Cherokee, a fact that does not bother its officers. ''We don't want to be in the papers,'' said William Gauger, president of Cherokee Northeast. ''That's not who we are.''
 So what, then, is Cherokee?
 The company, which promotes itself as the world's leading investor in brownfields redevelopment, was formed in 1984, when Mr. Darden joined in the purchase of four brick plants in North Carolina, forming the Cherokee Sanford Group -- variously described as the largest privately held brick company in North America.
 About two years later, soil contaminated with petroleum was discovered at the company's plant in Sanford, N.C. Rather than take the soil to a landfill, Mr. Darden received state approval to mix the soil with uncontaminated clay to make bricks, in the process burning out the contaminants through combustion in the kilns. With that, the company entered into the business of removing contaminated soil from gasoline stations and using it to make bricks. 
 Before long, Cherokee saw the potential in buying businesses with pollution problems, cleaning them up and either running or selling them -- setting the template for today's operation. Changing its name to Cherokee Environmental, the company began investing in real estate, mostly contaminated land in densely populated regions.
 Initial capital came from individual investors, who, like Mr. Darden, were part of Raleigh's entrepreneurial community. Needing more capital to invest in real estate, Cherokee closed on its first $50 million venture capital fund in 1996, backed by a Kansas-based chemical company, Koch Industries. That was followed by a second private equity fund of $250 million in 1998, and then a venture fund, which closed in 2003, with $620 million in commitments. The majority of those investment funds come from large pension plans and university endowments, with about $20 million coming from 40 private investors, Mr. Darden said. 
 Critics of Cherokee -- who insist that company has been given preferential treatment in the granting of contracts in New Jersey -- have speculated that some of those private investors are part of the state's ruling political elite, an accusation that Mr. Darden denied.
 ''Nobody who is currently in New Jersey or involved in politics there has invested in us,'' he said. As a privately held company, Cherokee is not required by law to disclose the identities of its investors.

'More Juice' Than Tropicana
 Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, is skeptical. ''Being smart politically only gets you so far,'' he said. ''You have to have something to trade on, some juice. What buys them the juice they have? They have more juice in New Jersey than Tropicana.''
 While Cherokee's lists of financial backers are closed to the public, the company's political contributions, and those of its leading consultants, are a matter of public record. Since 2000, Cherokee, its affiliate companies and individual officers have contributed more than $267,000 to political parties and individuals in the state, records show, about half of which were donations to the Democratic State Committee. 
 Mr. Darden dismissed the notion that the company was trying to buy favors through its political donations, and said that some of the Cherokee's projects had started under a Republican administration.
 ''Do people who are involved in the political process do it to buy influence?'' Mr. Darden asked. ''Or do they do it to get to know and meet people whom they respect? For me, that's it.''
 Nevertheless, when the company raised money for its third equity fund, Mr. Darden said, he added a provision barring the use of investor money for political contributions, noting that the appearance of conflicts could be ''too controversial.'' Still, company officers can make their own donations.
 Nor did the provision stop the company from hiring some of the state's best-connected consultants to help push its projects at the local and state level. For instance, DeCotiis, FitzPatrick, Cole & Wisler -- consistently named one of the state's most influential law firms -- handles Cherokee's legal affairs in New Jersey. Robert DeCotiis was legal counsel to Gov. Jim Florio, and his son, Michael, held the same post under Gov. James E. McGreevey. 
 For lobbying and public relations, Cherokee turned to Winning Strategies, a company headed by Jim McQueeny, a former chief of staff to Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, whose partners include Richard Gannon, a former top aide to Mr. Florio, Senator Lautenberg and Senator Bill Bradley; and Brad Brewster, former executive director and counsel to the New Jersey Assembly. Princeton Public Affairs, founded by Dale Florio (no relation to the governor), who was a top adviser to Gov. Christie Whitman, is also helping with public relations.

Cherokee's Political Donations
 Mr. Darden said that when Cherokee first comes into a state, it seeks out the best consultants in the area. ''If it turns out that the firm is politically connected, then it is what it is,'' Mr. Darden said. ''New Jersey tends to be a state with lots of politics going on.''
 Cherokee's balance sheets reflect that phenomenon. When the political donations made by the organizations listed as ''Cherokee consulting team'' are added to the mix, contributions to state and local candidates as well as party organizations in New Jersey alone total $1.5 million in the last four years. While these consulting firms represent numerous clients, the implicit role they play on behalf of Cherokee makes some critics uncomfortable.
 ''We're looking at an iceberg here and we're only seeing the top third -- the consultants they hire, the connections they have,'' said Mr. Tittel of the Sierra Club. ''We don't know what's going on in the bottom two thirds.''
 Besides raising capital, Cherokee's main expertise lies in remediation. After a site has been rendered usable, it sells the project's various elements to developers, who put up housing, retail space or recreational facilities. In the last 15 years, Cherokee has acquired about 350 such properties in the United States, Canada and England, which are in various stages of redevelopment, a company spokesman said.
 In terms of major redevelopment efforts, Cherokee has projects under way in Denver; Charleston, S.C.; and Richmond, Calif., as well as in New Jersey. But for now, completed projects are far more limited in scope than anything on the drawing board -- a pair of golf courses in Houston, a research and office park in San Francisco and a 30-acre mixed-use project in the company's hometown, Raleigh.
 ''It's a valid observation that what we have built here is unfortunately a smaller sample size than what we would like,'' said Mr. Darden, explaining that the company's investment rate has been greater recently, and that the big projects take at least 10 years to complete.
 Those major projects -- with billion-dollar price tags -- have gone a long way toward impressing local officials eager to be relieved of any potential liability at brownfield sites. But in reality, these billion-dollar figures represent what the projects will be worth once the houses are built and sold, the hotel and retail operations are producing income and the golf courses are collecting greens fees. 
 Even Mr. Darden admits the numbers are somewhat elusive. ''I have no idea what it all adds up to,'' he said.
 As for actual investment on Cherokee's part, the figures are more modest. The company spends about $45 million a year on remediation, Mr. Darden said. 
 Moreover, as brownfield redevelopers, Cherokee has access to government financing not typically available to commercial developers. The company has made an art form of piecing together public support through the use of discounted purchase prices (because the land is contaminated or because a municipality has acquired the property through eminent domain), grants for site investigation and infrastructure upgrades, state-backed financing, and reimbursements of up to 75 percent of the cleanup cost. 
 ''Cherokee has certainly taken advantage of the model of state subsidies available for brownfields cleanup,'' Mr. Willner said.
 Without such public support, said Mr. Gauger of Cherokee Northeast, these projects would not be possible.

No Apologies From Cherokee
 ''I'm not apologetic for taking advantage of legislation that existed before these projects were even a glimmer in my eye,'' he said. ''If the state doesn't become a financial partner and help you, the projects don't happen.''
 Cherokee's largest endeavor to date -- the Meadowlands Golf Project -- illustrates how the company works within the system.
 With Manhattan to the east and Giants Stadium to the north, Mr. Gauger stood in a parking lot last May to break ground on a 1,230-acre redevelopment site that if completed would enclose six landfills and encompass six golf courses, almost 3,500 homes, two resort hotels and a commercial center. Standing at his side was Governor McGreevey, who hailed the project as a prime example of his ''smart growth'' policies, and Susan Bass Levin, commissioner of community affairs and chairwoman of the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission.
 Four years earlier, in 2000, Governor Whitman had presided over a ceremony at the same site, naming EnCap Golf, a Cherokee company, as the chosen developer and praising the plan as an opportunity to turn around decades of abuse.
 ''For many years, the Meadowlands was looked upon as nothing more than a piece of water and mud, with no value except to be dumped on,'' said Robert R. Ceberio, executive director of the Meadowlands Commission. 
 But in 1998, the state approved the Brownfield Remediation Act, intended to provide financial incentives to private companies to clean up and develop contaminated sites. The same year, the Meadowlands Commission put out a request for proposals to remediate and redevelop the wetlands, and EnCap Golf was one of nine groups of development teams to respond. Based on Cherokee's completion of two golf courses in Houston and its impressive fiscal profile, the company was chosen for the project. 
 Mr. Ceberio said the other applicants, which included Starwood Heller, PMK Group and Corcoran Jennison Companies, ''didn't have any work in that field.''
 By 2000, EnCap executives predicted golf would be played there in 2005, but the latest projections put that at 2009 or 2010, a delay that Mr. Gauger attributes to the 80 to 90 public hearings.

Money for Remediation
 ''It takes a lot of time,'' he said. ''You're not just convincing one group of government. You need to convince many groups of government. It's torturous.'' 
 In addition to making its way through the regulatory process, Cherokee has spent a good deal of time securing agreements with state and local authorities on the cost of remediating and redeveloping the site.
 For instance, Phase 1 of the Meadowlands project calls for capping, or enclosing, four landfills -- in Rutherford, Lyndhurst and North Arlington -- and building four golf courses, 1,980 homes, 750 hotel rooms, and 850,000 square feet of office and retail space. But in North Arlington, residents for months expressed deep concerns over the likelihood of more traffic and the size of the retail and residential portions of Phase 2, which would add two more golf courses. The reaction led Cherokee first to scale back the heights of the buildings and, more recently, to delay the second phase indefinitely. 
 EnCap bought the land from the Meadowlands Commission for $8 million, and Mr. Gauger estimated the cleanup cost of Phase 1 at $150 million, plus $100 million to move radio towers out of the way of some greens. 
 To help EnCap buy the land and pay for the cleanup, the state's Economic Development Authority sold $145 million in low-interest tax-exempt bonds in 2001 -- one of the largest loans ever arranged by the development authority. In addition, EnCap put up a $99 million security bond, backed by American International Group.
 Upon completion of the project, EnCap is to receive $138 million in reimbursements under the state's brownfields program -- close to four times that of any other remediation reimbursement from the state. And by accepting waste material from other projects to fill in its site, Cherokee stands to benefit handsomely from the private sector. 
 The first layer of fill will be treated dredge from Newark Bay, for which the Army Corps of Engineers will pay Cherokee a tipping fee from $40 million to $140 million. The second layer is construction debris that could earn Cherokee $75 million simply for taking it off other builders' hands. The next layer will consist of sludge from the Passaic County Sewage Authority, giving Cherokee an additional $5 million, plus a discount rate on treatment of future waste. The top layer will be an impervious cap with drainage pipes to capture leaking contaminants.
 But to Mr. Tittel of the Sierra Club, this layering leaves nothing but a ''toxic wedding cake,'' and he has criticized the state for allowing an increased number of housing units to be built at the site -- up from 1,400 to 1,980 now planned for Phase 1.
 ''They're putting 2,000 homes on an area where a landfill is,'' Mr. Tittel said. ''Under everything you've got clay and wetlands, which are not stable, and will crack the cap. It costs a lot to remove contaminated soil, but in New Jersey, they've moved to capping because you can get away with it.''
 Dismissing Mr. Tittel's concerns about the cap's stability, Mr. Gauger said Cherokee was going far beyond what was required, noting that while many contaminated sites have only 2 feet of capping, this site will have close to 20 feet.
 ''I don't think anybody has cut us any breaks,'' Mr. Gauger said. ''Could we have done more? Yeah, but it would have resulted in more development. It's always possible to do more but at what point does it become irrational.''
 But Michael Guarino, a former Bergen County health director, said he was incensed by misconceptions about EnCap's largesse, especially the plan for the Bergen County Utilities Authority to transfer control of its former waste station to EnCap.
 The goal is to erase more than $96 million in debt owed by the authority. To pay off the debt, the Meadowlands Commission will pay $18.5 million; Bergen County, $20 million; the state, $11.5 million; the utilities authority, $23 million, and EnCap, $23 million.

Cherokee's Claims Questioned
 Reading from an article on the Meadowlands Commission's Web site, Mr. Guarino said: '''As outlined by the state and EnCap officials, most of the project would be privately funded.' That's how this project got off the ground, through lies.''
 Mr. Guarino, a longtime resident of Lyndhurst, said he was also angered by the agreement his town struck with Cherokee, exempting the company from paying Lyndhurst 39.5 percent of the taxes it would have paid the town on improvements. Late last year, EnCap announced an agreement to sell Pulte Homes development rights on the residential portion of the project for $155 million. With houses starting at $350,000, and other projections of how much this cluster is expected to generate in taxes, Mr. Guarino estimated EnCap could save $600 million in taxes over the 30-year agreement. 
 ''To come to Lyndhurst and say, 'We need money,' that's outrageous,'' he said. ''If they're taking all this public money, there's got to be some accountability. But nobody wants to say anything.''
 (Next: How one Cherokee project has attracted the attention of the United States attorney and forged an unlikely alliance.) 


CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 17 about Cherokee Investment Partners and its role in redeveloping several former industrial sites in New Jersey -- the first of two parts -- included an incorrect estimate of fees that Cherokee received for accepting dredge from the Army Corps of Engineers. From information provided by the corps that it pays $10 to $35 a cubic yard to dispose of the material, the article concluded that Cherokee would receive $40 million to $140 million for four million cubic yards of dredge. A contract shows that the corps has agreed to pay the company $5 a cubic yard. 
 The second article, on April 24, about the redevelopment of Pennsauken and Petty's Island, the site of a former Citgo petroleum refinery, quoted the island's environmental manager for Citgo, Jack McCrossin. By his account, a lawyer for Citgo said that when the company approached Cherokee to ask about the eagles, the lawyer was told, ''If the governor wants Petty's Island developed, it will get developed.'' A lawyer for Cherokee, Eric Wisler, denies that he or the company made the comment. 
 In each case, in fairness, The Times should have given Cherokee an opportunity to comment. 
 In addition, the April 24 article suggested erroneously that a falconry expert working for Cherokee needed state and federal permission before observing two bald eagles on Petty's Island. No such permission is required.
 Because of an editing error, the article said incorrectly that the National Wildlife Refuge System -- to whom Citgo was offering the land in exchange for sparing it millions of dollars in cleanup costs in other parts of the state --had not acquired land in New Jersey since the early 1990's. While the system has not acquired new tracts in recent years, it has indeed added acreage to its current holdings. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Meadowlands Golf Project includes golf courses, nearly 2,000 homes and a hotel, office and retail complex on former landfill in Rutherford, Lyndhurst and East Arlington. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In Camden, homeowners have filed a court petition to block Cherokee from razing 1,200 homes in the Cramer Hill neighborhood and replacing them with 5,700 new ones. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
The Meadowlands Golf Project in Rutherford, Lyndhurst and North Arlington calls for capping four landfills. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Cherokee is converting a 470-acre site in Bayonne -- 38 acres of which are a former landfill -- into an 18-hole golf course. (Photo by Jim Simpson/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 Two endangered eagles have moved their nest from Petty's Island to the Cramer Hill section of Camden. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Map of New Jersey shows the sites of planned projects by Cherokee Investment Partners. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); GOLF (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); PETITIONS (60%); AFFLUENT MARKET (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



349 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Football? Nah, Hardball

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
''I didn't see the light,'' George Zoffinger finally said, ''but I felt the heat.''
 In making his stark admission, George Zoffinger, the president of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, was referring to the events that unfolded from Trenton to the Meadowlands last week, culminating with the announcement that the state and the New York Giants -- after months of angst and acrimony -- had agreed to build a new $750 million football stadium. 
 Yet in finally yielding to pressure from acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, the combative Mr. Zoffinger -- a millionaire banker and real estate executive -- could not help asserting: ''This is a deal that's being negotiated by the governor. Everyone knows what my stance is and I haven't changed it.'' 
 Mr. Zoffinger's surrender was an appropriately strange end to one of the strangest negotiations in memory, in which the governor used every means at his disposal to prevail not upon the executives of the storied National Football League franchise -- who were seeking a more profitable arrangement with the state -- but on one of his own employees. 
 For the most part, Mr. Zoffinger -- who avoided appearing at the news conference at the Meadowlands where the specifics of the agreement were unveiled -- demurred on the details of his conversations with the governor, the last of which came in the form of a testy cease-and-desist telephone call on Tuesday. 
 Asked about the blunt version of events given by one Giants executive -- ''Codey finally told him to shut up'' -- Mr. Zoffinger chuckled ruefully and said: ''Sure, that's about it. Write it.''
 But even as he tried to show restraint after his scoldings, Mr. Zoffinger could not conceal his disapproval of the eventual outcome, leaving unclear whether he had actually blinked or merely winked at Mr. Codey's demands.
 ''This is not a Zoffinger deal,'' he said.
 Although Mr. Zoffinger declined to spell out his misgivings, he has expressed concerns about burdening taxpayers with new costs of infrastructure and millions in annual debt payments on the old stadium.
 For the governor's part, the agreement to build a new stadium was a major triumph, and the fulfillment of one of his main objectives since inheriting the office last November from James McGreevey, whose administration chased three other professional sports franchises out of the Meadowlands. 
 Under the agreement announced at last Thursday's news conference, the Giants will pay the cost of construction plus $6.3 million in annual rent. Mr. Codey all but broke into an end-zone dance and gushed, ''That will keep the Giants here in New Jersey, where they belong.''
 Standing next to the Giants owners, Wellington and John Mara and Steven and Robert Tisch, as well as Carl Goldberg, chairman of the sports authority, the governor said that when he came into office, he wanted to make the Meadowlands sports complex ''not only economically viable, but a symbol of pride for our state.'' 
 In getting the Giants to build their own stadium -- one where they will be committed to play for at least the next 40 years -- Mr. Codey clearly felt that he had achieved both his goals. 
 ''This is the best deal for the taxpayers of any stadium deal in the N.F.L.,'' he said.
 The clash between Mr. Zoffinger and Mr. Codey -- and the governor's eventual victory in the test of wills -- was a long time in the making.
 Mr. Zoffinger, who was appointed by Mr. McGreevey in March 2002, has made it clear throughout his tenure that his goal was to remake the sports authority into a profitable entity, pushing for commercial development in the form of a $1.3 billion development called Xanadu -- a five-million-square-foot retail, entertainment, hotel and office complex featuring a chocolate waterfall, artificial ski slope and paintball range -- and taking a tough negotiating line against the resident sports teams.
 For his part, Mr. Zoffinger frequently advocated other commercial uses for the Meadowlands, and said that the sports teams -- beneficiaries of what he deemed overly generous deals subsidized by the state -- generated a relatively poor return for taxpayers.
 But Mr. Codey had other ideas when he moved into the State House last November. As an unabashed sports fan who saw professional franchises as an integral part of New Jersey's independent identity, Mr. Codey reacted with visceral horror to plans by the Jets, Devils, Nets and MetroStars to abandon their homes, and made it a priority to preserve the Meadowlands as a ''sports mecca.'' 
 ''We've lost too many teams,'' the governor complained last week. 
 As for the role Mr. Zoffinger has played, the governor said with a mixture of anger and wonder: ''He has essentially presided over the destruction of the sports authority. The purpose of the sports authority was to bring sports teams to New Jersey, and they're all leaving.''
 For Mr. Codey, the most important of these tenants was the Giants, who ushered in the entire professional sports industry in New Jersey with their groundbreaking move from New York in the 1970's. 
 But the Giants, who were already dissatisfied with their 29-year-old stadium, were further upset by the prospect of playing next to what they considered to be a glorified shopping mall -- with all of the attendant traffic congestion on game days.
 ''As a result of the Giants' coming over here, we built a whole new economy then an arena,'' Mr. Codey said. ''As a result, Bergen County and that whole region in the state has grown tremendously. We're losing that?''
 Yet it was only in recent weeks that the tension between the governor and the independent sports authority president rose considerably. Mr. Codey took to criticizing Mr. Zoffinger, privately and publicly, for embarking on ''an adventure'' in his pursuit of Xanadu -- which has already begun going up in the parking lot of the Continental Airlines Arena -- without the Giants' approval. 
 Worse, from Mr. Codey's perspective, Mr. Zoffinger effectively undermined the state's efforts to reach a bargain with the Giants over issues concerning parking, traffic and future tax obligations by maintaining his own more-hawkish negotiating stance.
 Indeed, in the days preceding last Thursday's announcement, Mr. Codey -- who occupies the most constitutionally powerful governorship in the country -- found it necessary to point out that he was in charge.
 Responding to a reporter's question about the Giants' claims that they were dealing with contradictory negotiators for the state, the governor said with more than a hint of annoyance: ''They're dealing with me, and that's that. Everything else is just a distraction.''
 In an end run worthy of the sport in question, the state's negotiating team --the governor; his counsel, Paul Fader; and the chief executive of the sports authority, Mr. Goldberg -- forged an agreement without Mr. Zoffinger. 
 The Giants were openly pointing to Mr. Zoffinger as the chief obstacle to an accord among themselves, the state and the developers of Xanadu, the Mills Corporation and Mack-Cali.
 ''My impression is that George Zoffinger doesn't want this deal to go through,'' John Mara, the Giants executive vice president, had said earlier in the week.
 Another Giants official even suggested that the governor fire Mr. Zoffinger, a step that Mr. Codey said last week he ''hasn't thought about and doesn't want to get into.'' 
 (The fact is, it would not necessarily be simple for Mr. Codey to fire Mr. Zoffinger from his $195,000-a-year position since he serves at the pleasure of the sports authority's board of commissioners.)
 But Mr. Zoffinger, a former state commerce commissioner, resisted what he considered a sweetheart deal for the Giants right up until he received the phone call from the governor last Tuesday. Soon after that, he had enough.
 Mr. Zoffinger said that there would still be plenty for him to do at the sports authority, including shepherding through the completion of Xanadu, traffic improvements and a rail link to the Meadowlands and increasing the profitability of the concert business and racing at the Meadowlands race track.
 And Mr. Zoffinger, using an Italian-American expression, said he took solace in the notion that he got a better deal ''from being a skootch,'' attributing the Giants' eventual concession on the more than $6 million dollars in rent to his peskiness as a negotiator. 
 But in the end, Mr. Zoffinger could not really pretend to be happy about the resolution of the dispute.
 ''The details of this deal will come out,'' he said, ''and the people will decide for themselves.''
 For the time being, Mr. Zoffinger's reservations must take a back seat as Mr. Codey celebrates his landmark day for New Jersey. Still, the good feeling went only so far.
 Asked after the announcement whether, given the new long-term commitment to the Meadowlands, the New York Giants would consider changing their name to include New Jersey, a team official responded with a one-word e-mail message: ''No.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: George Zoffinger, executive director of the sports authority, left, finally yielded to acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, far left, by backing off his opposition to replace Giants Stadium, above. (Photos by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times, above, and Associated Press)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



350 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Sports Could Get Some Big Help

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Trying to win the hearts of the International Olympic Committee members before they vote for the 2012 host city in July, New York's bid leaders are appealing to their wallets by offering free marketing assistance to every international sports federation for the seven years leading up to the Games.
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor and founder of NYC2012, will unveil this inducement today alongside Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at a gathering of sports federation leaders and some I.O.C. members in Berlin. Doctoroff said he hoped this would become a powerful argument for New York, particularly for sports that attract little attention in the United States outside the Olympics.
 The announcement comes as the five bid cities -- New York, Paris, London, Madrid and Moscow -- make presentations today at one of the last large meetings of members before the entire 117-member committee convenes in Singapore for the selection on July 6. The Berlin event includes an I.O.C. executive board meeting and a major international sports convention. About 20 to 25 I.O.C. members are expected to attend. 
 London officials say they also have a major announcement planned.
 Doctoroff will detail his proposed sports marketing council, which would have N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern as the chairman. For every international sports federation that expresses interest, NYC2012 will offer free assistance from people at New York-based companies who Doctoroff said he had enlisted as volunteers. Each federation would be given office space in the organizing committee headquarters and access to experts in marketing, sponsorship and event promotion.
 ''It's an opportunity to help these sports outside of the period of the Olympics,'' Stern said Friday in a telephone interview. ''I think it is a very imaginative thing for the bid team to do. I was happy to help when asked.''
 The initiative aims to appeal to the self-interest of I.O.C. members, most of whom have allegiance to a particular sport. Most federations cannot afford high-powered marketing teams. They rely on the Games to highlight their sports, but it is often the only television exposure they get in the United States. Even the International Association of Athletics Federations has said it wants to increase its American presence despite track and field's popularity during the Olympics.
 ''For most of the sports, and I think you could say maybe all but four or so, we here in the United States represent a largely untapped market that previous Games in the U.S. have failed to capitalize on,'' Doctoroff said. ''We think there is an enormous opportunity for sports like track and field. If you read the I.A.A.F.'s strategic plan, they clearly identify this gap, the United States question, as the most important strategic imperative.''
 NYC2012 has been using the city's concentration of corporate power as a selling point in its bid -- trumpeting that seven of the world's 10 largest advertising companies are based in New York -- but this is its first specific proposal.
 The goal is to set New York apart from its European competitors with its economic advantages and appeal to I.O.C. voters, who are overwhelmingly from Europe. At one time, bid cities did this by lavishing voting members with gifts, trips and personal favors. In the wake of the Salt Lake City bribery scandal, the inducements have to help Olympic sports, not merely line members' pockets.
 NYC2012's idea grew from its planners' meetings with international federation officials, many of whom expressed frustration at not being able to expand their sports in the United States.
 ''Most bid cities are so overwhelmed just getting the venues ready and organizing the Games that they don't take time to promote the sports,'' said Jim Easton, head of the International Archery Federation and one of the United States' three I.O.C. members. ''Maybe they do it for the elite athletes, but they don't appeal to the average sportsman who would like to have a new sport to try.''
 Easton said three archery ranges were built outside Los Angeles before the 1984 Games, spawning club-level participation and crowds that filled the 4,500-seat archery site each day of the Games. Easton said the ranges were still used.
 ''Imagine if you can do that kind of thing in New York,'' he said.
 Stern, who has promoted the N.B.A. internationally, said the key to cracking a new market was identifying current fans and potential fans, concentrating on ways to reach them and approaching sponsors interested in them.
 ''Not everybody is going to get huge TV ratings,'' he said. ''But in New York City, there are loyal and devoted participants and fans in all kinds of sports, and that is valuable to these sports.''
 NYC2012 has timed the announcement for maximum impact, when bid leaders believe the I.O.C. begins seriously considering its choices.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Today in Berlin, Daniel L. Doctoroff, the founder of NYC2012, will unveil a plan to help the city's Olympic bid. (Photo by Greg White/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRACK & FIELD (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (78%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



351 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; FICTION CHRONICLE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1121 words

BYLINE: By James Parker. 
James Parker lives in Brookline, Mass. He is the author of ''Turned On: A Biography of Henry Rollins.''

 BODY:

PRIME. By Poppy Z. Brite. (Three Rivers Press, paper, $13.95.) This is Brite's third novel about the gay New Orleans chefs Rickey and G-man -- partners in business and love -- and we are told that she is at work on a fourth. Can the franchise sustain itself? The answer is yes. To begin with, a high-end restaurant is -- for any competent novelist -- a gift that keeps on giving. The heat, the bickerings and intrigue, the pursuit of perfection, the dodgy money keeping it all afloat: the setting spawns plots. Further, the gentle G-man and his more highly strung partner, Rickey, are distinct but mutually dependent characters, fervently monogamous but with a restlessness in their relationship that keeps things moving. Here, the boys are knocked off balance when their restaurant, Liquor, is given a terrible review, then maintained in their disequilibrium by a curious invitation for Rickey to go to to Dallas and help organize the menu of a troubled fellow chef named Cooper. A decayed charmer and sexual predator, Cooper is a figure of some interest; his palate may still be acute, but his taste for life has coarsened. His rueful but too forgiving sense of himself and his collapsible morals are well caught by Brite.
 With Rickey anxiously marooned in Dallas, fending off Cooper, and G-man bossing the kitchen at Liquor, the plot thickens in an unhurried way, and the city of New Orleans -- always a major character -- displays its corrupt and generous heart. Economically written, with only occasional lapses into the blandly ornate style we'll call menu prose -- ''this veal cheek in front of him, shredding at his fork's touch like a tiny pot roast, caressing his tongue with its deep, gelatinous texture and flavor'' -- ''Prime'' is saved from being mere canny careerist fiction by the pleasing complexity of the characters.

THE OPTIMISTS. By Andrew Miller. (Harcourt, $24.) Clem Glass, photojournalist, is living in London in a state of calamitous aftermath; an atrocity he witnessed while on assignment in Africa has emptied his life of meaning. ''It was his heart he needed now and his heart had locked fast the night he had straddled the dead with his lenses.'' Shut down, unable to speak about what he has seen, he gives himself over to random big-city drift, going to the movies in the afternoon and bumping about with prostitutes. A call from his father, with the news that his sister, Clare, has been reclaimed by a depression that first engulfed her 20 years before, sets him moving. He travels north to visit his father at a lay Christian community, a place ''neat as a barracks,'' on a small island, where old men pray and grow vegetables. But the religion of this ''remote and elderly man in a corduroy suit'' -- somehow still looming colossally in the psyche of his daughter -- looks like frail protective magic, and is of no use to Clem. Traveling on and scooping his sister up from the clinic, he removes her to a rural cottage where they both attempt recovery.
 ''The Optimists'' is a work of solemn artistry. Miller's style is one of guarded lyricism, in which he allows just enough poetry in the language to get the job done, the mood or moment caught. The sharpest of his senses seems to be his ear. A car engine is turned off in a wood: ''Quietness, like the hissing in a shell, seeped through the skin of the car.'' A long-neglected tap is turned on: ''Yards of old piping juddered, there was a burst of musty air, then the sudden slap of water on the worn enamel.''

NAM-A-RAMA. By Phillip Jennings. (Tom Doherty/Forge, $24.95.) Jennings, who flew more than 300 helicopter missions in Vietnam, has produced in his first novel a work of true American frenzy; it is far too long, and not all the jokes are good (a rogue Cuban agent called Gon Norea?) but ''Nam-a-Rama'' has enough surprise, manic laughter and grisly just-born newness in it to earn comparison to Hunter S. Thompson's ''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas'' and -- more onerously, perhaps -- to Joseph Heller's ''Catch-22.''
 ''Nam-a-Rama,'' like ''Catch-22,'' is a satirical war novel, in which reality has been entirely consumed by a deranged military consciousness and sane men are left alone to nurse their paranoia. Captains Armstrong and Gearheardt, Marine pilots both, are on a shaggy dog of a mission either to assassinate Ho Chi Minh or to make a deal with him -- they aren't sure which. An American starlet called Barbonella parachutes in, topless. At its best Jennings's humor comes down like lightning, fully charged, from some higher and more vital realm; at its least effective, when the page is crowded with pratfalls, improbabilities and silly names, it invites the use of that wilting word ''zany.'' Additionally, some estrangement seems to have occurred between the merry jester responsible for the book's best lines and the distinguished veteran gravely blessing America in the afterword. But this is Jennings's problem, and not the reader's. 

ADIOS HEMINGWAY. By Leonardo Padura Fuentes. (Canongate, $20). Fuentes continues the chronicle of a Havana police detective, Mario Conde, who -- as the novel begins -- is eight years into his second career as a failed writer and part-time seller of rare books. At Finca Vigia, once the Cuban home of Ernest Hemingway (and now a museum dedicated to him), a summer rainstorm has uncovered the bones of a murder victim, a man apparently shot some 40 years before, when Hemingway would have been in residence. Could the killer have been Papa himself? The great man had a ''filthy temper,'' as Conde's former colleague Inspector Manuel Palacios reminds him. The case tempts Conde out of his writerly limbo and into a sort of autumnal transport, in which he revisits the month of October in 1958 at Finca Vigia and watches as a fading Hemingway curses his failing powers, mutters to his dog, exceeds doctor's orders by drinking a whole bottle of Chianti, peers in grumpy perplexity at a copy of ''The Catcher in the Rye'' and curls up with a hypochondriac's treat: ''The Liver and Its Illnesses,'' by H. P. Himsworth.
 Flashing back and forth between 1958 and the present, ''Adios Hemingway'' is an elegantly turned meditation on the cold realities of age, the waning of strength and beauty and the production of literary myth. There is also -- lest the theme should grow too weighty -- some dexterous symbolic work with a pair of Ava Gardner's knickers. Thanks in part to John King's limpid, breezy translation, ''Adios Hemingway'' reads cleanly and feels simple, but in his dreamy and dogged pursuit of Hemingway -- this ''old, rather dirty-bearded man with his large hands and feet'' -- the former Inspector Conde is as psycho-literary a gumshoe as any Paul Auster fan could wish for.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PETER PAUL RUBENS: The Drawings. By Anne-Marie Logan in collaboration with Michiel C. Plomp. (Yale University, $75.) ''Judith Killing Holofernes,'' ca. 1609-10, is the earliest Rubens work to portray the story of Judith from the Apocrypha, in which a pious widow beheads the Assyrian leader and saves her people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%); PROSTITUTION (50%); RELIGION (50%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: James Parker; Poppy Z Brite; Andrew Miller; Phillip Jennings; Leonardo Padura Fuentes; Anne-Marie Logan; Michiel C Plomp

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



352 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: REBUILDING IRAQ; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Reconstruction: Grand U.S. Plan Fractures Again

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
For the third time in nine months, the Bush administration has redrafted its project to rebuild Iraq, forcing planners to cancel more of the water, sewage and power plants that were part of the grand American design to transform the shattered country. 
 Many of the halted projects are now described by American officials as ''noncritical'' and ''long term'' because they are scheduled to start two years from now. 
 The need for the reallocation of money grew not only from unanticipated security costs but also from what many experts said were flawed assumptions by Pentagon planners and Congress when they set out to pepper Iraq with large infrastructure projects built by American companies. The latest changes mean less money being spent on building new facilities and more on training and maintenance, with less reliance on expensive Western firms and more on smaller local firms. 
 The redirected funds, together with previous shifts, account for $4.8 billion of the $18.4 billion in aid approved by Congress.
 The administration describes the changes as a natural midstream adjustment. James Dobbins, who has headed reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan and elsewhere, said State Department officials deserved credit for bowing to reality. 
 ''They describe this as a response to changing circumstances,'' said Mr. Dobbins, now with the RAND Corporation in Washington. ''But the shifts are in part a response to a faulty initial strategy.'' 
 When the State Department took over the aid program from the Pentagon last summer, it reallocated $3.46 billion from infrastructure building to meet spiraling security needs, train more Iraqi police officers and start large work programs. 
 In December and again in March, a total of $1.3 billion was shifted from building programs to training, job programs and security, according to a State Department report to Congress issued April 6. 
 The recent changes, the report said with unusual candor, are mainly needed to salvage the facilities already repaired or built, many of which are barely functioning. Iraqis tend to fault poor American planning for the breakdowns while American contractors point the finger at poor Iraqi management. 
 New efforts in training and maintenance are needed, the report said, ''to avoid the shutdown of critical facilities we help rebuild.'' 
 In addition, American aid officials in Iraq now recognize that refurbished electrical and water plants do not help many people until new wiring and pipes are run into individual homes -- less technological but in some ways more arduous tasks. Thus, between poor management of regional grids and chaotic local wiring, urban residents still suffer frequent blackouts even as electrical power capacity climbs. 
 In the case of oil, which provides Iraq with virtually all its revenues, production is lagging despite American spending of well over $2 billion. The northern oil fields are often rendered useless because of insurgent attacks on key pipelines.
 In southern Iraq, oil production is constrained by a breakdown of the system that pressurizes underground petroleum reservoirs with injections of water. The Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg Brown & Root repaired the crucial water plant soon after the main fighting ended in Iraq, at high expense. But the oil fields still receive little water, aid officials report, because the aged pipes carrying water to the oil fields break so often. The Iraqi insurgency, of course, also has caused huge delays. 
 As of March 29, about two-thirds of the $18.4 billion voted by Congress in 2003 had been committed to actual projects, and only $4.2 billion had been disbursed for work completed. Earlier in 2003, the administration spent an additional $2.5 billion of American funds on reconstruction, and the coalition authority also spent billions in Iraqi funds on oil field and other repairs. 
 Contractors have had to devote as much as 25 percent of their spending to security, and construction work often has been halted. 
 Adding to the expense, officials now lament, the contracts signed with international firms allowed them to keep billing the United States for personnel and overhead expenses even when they could not work. The administration is ''shifting work to Iraqi subcontractors that are somewhat less susceptible to insurgency attacks and are not burdened by the same heavy overhead expenses of foreign firms,'' the State Department report said. 
 Rick Barton, an expert in reconstruction at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said the report showed the aid program was adapting, but that it had a hard legacy to overcome.
 ''We started out with a monster master plan that didn't address the need for tangible and quick progress,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); APPROVALS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); CITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



353 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 2065 words

HEADLINE: Need Turns Aging Strangers Into Roommates

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
In New York, the eternal struggle to cope with the high cost of living has often meant a willingness to live with just about anyone, anyhow.
 Adults in their 30's routinely move back in with their parents. Young artists bunk with other young artists in $3,000-a-month apartments intended for two tenants, not six. Poor immigrants wedge themselves into unsafe tenements, mimicking generations before them.
 But more and more, the unforgiving math of housing economics is altering and upending the lives of older New Yorkers as well, forcing them into urgent partnerships in which embarrassment is eclipsed by necessity, fear must be swallowed and the loves and habits of a lifetime must be bent just to make do -- often with complete strangers. 
 In Queens, Lou Tuccillo, 76, and Billy, 61, never imagined they would suddenly be bound by desperation and forced to split the rent in the way, well, college sophomores more typically might. But the deaths of Lou's wife and Billy's mother conspired to cram the two together in a cluttered apartment in Maspeth.
 In the top floor of a house on Staten Island, Bob Canale, 66, and Tom Block, 62, strangers until last year, are pooling their food stamps, Social Security checks and disability benefits to stay off the streets. Yet out of their later-life crisis -- Bob was assaulted and Tom's heart was weakening -- they have improvised a true friendship.
 Such partnerships are typically accidental, although sometimes anticipated. They can be fleeting or fixed for years. Sometimes, all it takes is a sudden slip on the stairs, and a hospitalization, draining finances and options. Sometimes, all it takes is an eviction notice from a landlord who wants to ride a hot real estate market.
 ''It's hard to be alone, and old, and sick, with very low income,'' said Irena Schafhauser, 77, who fell down the stairs of her four-story walk-up in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, a couple of years ago. Unable to continue working at a doctor's office on the Upper East Side, she reluctantly took in Eugene Swierczynski, 57, a neighbor she dislikes.
 ''Before, I was active, but after the accident, I can't ---- '' she started, fighting back sobs. ''I dream a lot, to have something else, but it's very hard, because rent is life.''
 Capturing the doubled-up universe of aging tenants is hard because the arrangements can be short-lived, and because some are reluctant to talk about their circumstances. But according to the 2000 census, more than 9,000 households in the city consisted of people 60 and older, living with unrelated boarders or roommates.
 And with older Americans sometimes waiting years for subsidized housing and people living longer, the trend appears to be growing, according to social workers and lawyers.

Tom and Bob
After an Uneasy Beginning, A Friendship Takes Shape
 When Tom Block lost consciousness after complications from heart surgery a couple of months ago, Bob Canale said, he could not eat, sleep or even go to the bathroom for days.
 ''I love the guy, and he loves me, and we're two straight guys,'' he said then, his voice unsteady. ''I must be cursed, because I don't make friends easy.''
 The two were paired eight months ago by Richmond Senior Services, a nonprofit agency on Staten Island that places needy older people in the same apartment, and usually charges each roommate $500 a month.
 At first, Bob, 66, left, a former caterer who once voted for George Wallace, and Tom, 62, right, a former economics instructor at the College of Staten Island who calls himself a neo-Marxist, did not mix.
 But both men loved Tom's cat, Tigercat. Both had failed marriages. Both had battled personal demons: alcohol for Bob, depression for Tom. Both had survived illegal rooming houses. Soon, each became sensitive to the other's eccentricities and sleep patterns. The two now shop together at the Pathmark, fill up the cabinets without labeling what belongs to whom and talk for hours in the kitchen.
 ''The two of us had very lonely lives,'' Tom said on a recent afternoon.
 ''He used to eat with his cat,'' Bob said.
 ''But now I have Bobby,'' Tom said.
 Fortunately, Tom recently bounced back from his operation and is recuperating at home. And Bob, who was Tom's only visitor at the hospital, has become an unofficial home health aide, cooking him ravioli dinners and running errands.
 Bob is even reading Nietzsche, much to Tom's delight.
 But now, there is the Jim factor. As in Jim, the third roommate, who arrived two months ago. He is friendly enough, Bob and Tom say, but he is so messy that cockroaches have become a problem. So for the first time in nearly eight months, Bob and Tom have to lock their bedrooms, and try, again, to coexist peacefully with a stranger.

Lou and Billy
The Secret to Getting Along: Staying Out of the Way
 At 11 a.m., Lou Tuccillo begins his daily circuit by eating lunch and maybe playing bingo at the Self-Help Maspeth Senior Center.
 At 1 p.m., he visits the library across the street to read the tabloids, and any books or periodicals on jewelry. His nickname, he explains, is Diamond Lou, and he used to own jewelry stores in Queens and Manhattan, as well as a house in the Catskills, before tens of thousands of dollars in medical and funeral bills for his wife depleted him.
 At 2:30 p.m., he orders a coffee at a McDonald's, a few blocks down, and sits at his favorite corner table, alone.
 At 5 p.m., he returns to his $90-a-week room -- actually, it's more of an alcove -- in the apartment he shares with a guy named Billy, who would not give his last name. After a nap and some dinner, he heads to the neighborhood bar before returning at midnight.
 ''I kill my time,'' Lou said. ''I never thought this would happen to me.'' 
 Lou, 76, has spent his twilight years as a boarder in a succession of two-family houses in northwest Queens, surviving on about $800 a month in Social Security benefits. A succession, he explains, because every 10 months or so, his landlord sells the property because the market is so good.
 For Lou, the current arrangement, which he heard about by word of mouth, may be the most trying yet. The place is a mess, he says, choked with clothes, cardboard boxes and discarded food. Lou's clothes always reek of Billy's cigarettes.
 ''Mainly, I'm not there,'' he said. ''It's better for him. It's better for me. We know each other's problems, and what I try to do is stay out of the way.''
 For Billy, 61, the arrangement may have been a blessing in disguise. After his mother died last year, Billy could not afford the $800 rent because it exceeded his disability benefits. But he also found in Lou a generous spirit who cooks London broil or pork chops every Saturday night for the two to share.
 But those routines may soon be upended. Last month, the house was listed for $490,000. So once again, Lou will need to look for shelter. But this time, it will be different, he says, because of Billy.
 ''I'm going to try and take him with me because he don't have no defense at all,'' Lou said. ''If it weren't for me, he'd be homeless.'' 

Edna
At 79, Learning to Live With People Who Aren't Family
 Year after year, person after person, Edna Grabstein's world is shrinking.
 She had three children with her husband, who owned Grabstein's Delicatessen, a well-known establishment in Canarsie, Brooklyn. Then, after he died, she had to declare bankruptcy partly because of a dispute with the deli's new owners.
 The only place she could afford was an apartment on Staten Island in a house owned by her sister, for $700 a month.
 Then, a few months ago, Edna's sister and brother-in-law sold the house and moved to Florida. And the only option Edna had was Richmond Senior Services, even though she had never lived with nonrelatives before.
 Moving day was Dec. 2, and Edna's son, Marty, an actor who is the voice of ''Courage the Cowardly Dog,'' the cartoon character, was there to comfort her. But Edna broke down when the movers threatened to drive off with her possessions until someone came up with cash, not a personal check.
 ''I'm 79,'' she cried. ''It's stressful enough as it is for anyone to move, especially for a 79-year-old woman who didn't expect to be moving at this point in her life.''
 The subsequent transition has not been easy, but Edna calls herself a survivor. One roommate, Louise, complained that Edna's television was too loud. The other, Mary, apparently smoked in her room, against house rules.
 Mary left in January; her bedroom remains vacant. Edna and Louise barely speak to each other. But at least Edna has her old couch to keep her company.
 ''I've sat there, just to touch home again,'' she said.

Helena
Home Is Half a Dining Room Until a Boarder's Luck Turns
 Helena Dziedzic came to America in 1990 from Poland to live with her daughter and grandson. But after quarreling with her daughter, she found herself alone in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, with no money and no English skills.
 Helena ended up receiving public assistance and paying about $200 a month to live in the dining room of a one-bedroom apartment with four or five other Polish immigrants. Or, to be more precise, half the dining room, since there was a flimsy curtain that separated Helena's bed from the main pathway to the kitchen and the bathroom.
 Every morning for more than four years, Helena, now 75, was startled by the cadences of people cooking, showering and eating just a few feet away. Every night, she was unable to sleep, as tenants came and went at all hours, turning on the light and opening the refrigerator at the foot of her bed. 
 But last year, her roommates wanted to get rid of Helena.
 ''They want to kick me out for a bigger table,'' she said during a visit in November.
 Desperate, she contacted the Polish and Slavic Center, a social service agency, and Jacek Bikowski, a tenant consultant for the North Brooklyn Development Corporation. With their help, she moved in December into a sunny one-bedroom apartment at a residence for the elderly, Jennings Hall, in Williamsburg. No roommates.
 Helena smiles constantly now, and with her own kitchen, she finally feels comfortable cooking. She is also trying to improve her English, jotting down in Polish the definitions of new words like ''squirrel,'' ''faucet'' and ''quiet.''
 ''It is very nice,'' she said. ''Not noisy. No opening the door. No opening the lights.'' 

Irena and Eugene
Bickering the Days Away, With an Occasional Thaw
 In a scene reminiscent of Sartre's ''No Exit,'' Irena Schafhauser and Eugene Swierczynski, two Polish immigrants, complain about the same things, day after day, from opposite ends of their two-bedroom apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
 There he is, rolling his own cigarettes in the kitchen, reading the Polish magazine Wprost. There she is, sprawled on her bed, her beloved Doberman, Azor, beside her, vials of medicine strewn about.
 ''She's a sick woman,'' Eugene, 57, said one morning. ''I'm a sick man. She lives over there. I live over here. That's it.''
 Before moving in with Irena for $400 a month, Eugene was living in a homeless shelter, battling depression. Before that, he had his own apartment and worked as a carpenter, until he fell off a ladder at a construction site and became disabled.
 Neither goes out much. So they end up bickering. He says she is too short-tempered. She says he drinks too much.
 ''I don't want him,'' said Irena, 77, whose speech has been impaired by a recent stroke. ''Even if somebody pay me less, that's better.''
 Sometimes, detente prevails. If Irena, who takes 15 prescriptions each day, rejects her daily meal delivered by a local service for the elderly, she gives it to Eugene. And Eugene, who is genuinely fond of Azor, has called her ''a nice woman'' on several occasions over the last few months.
 When the two are getting along, they usually talk about how Irena is battling the landlord, who wants to evict them, renovate the rent-regulated apartment and charge someone else more money. About how Irena has fallen behind, again, on her phone and utility payments. About how the government is cutting her benefits to $547 a month from $666, and is pushing Eugene to go to a health clinic he does not want to go to.
 Sometimes, the two silently puff on their cigarettes and stare out the window at the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building, off in the distance. Sometimes, they just sigh.
 ''I want to live by myself again,'' Eugene said. ''But I can't.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Ruth Fremson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EVICTION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); TRENDS (66%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



354 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Sex Shops Expect the Other Stiletto to Drop

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
During the last two years, X-rated shops have made a quiet but pronounced comeback in New York City, with dozens of new businesses opening in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn, Greenwich Village and even near Times Square.
 But strict new zoning rules now reaching the final stage of a nearly yearlong legal battle could force most of them to close, bringing highly visible changes to the neighborhoods in which the stores have clustered.
 ''What they've done is made it impossible for these guys to stay in business,'' said Herald Price Fahringer, the lawyer for a coalition of about 75 video stores and X-rated theaters challenging the restrictions in court. ''If this law were to be upheld, 85 percent of all the stores would have to close.'' 
 Last week a state appellate court upheld the stricter regulations but issued an interim stay of the ruling until later this month, when the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, will consider whether to grant a permanent stay and hear a further appeal. If the stay is not granted, the new rules would go into effect immediately, sewing up loopholes to zoning regulations enacted by the city during the mid-1990's. 
 Under those earlier regulations, stores or clubs that devoted at least 60 percent of their inventory or space to non-X-rated material were not considered ''adult entertainment'' establishments at all, allowing owners who were attentive to the letter of the law to open up sex shops in residential and commercial neighborhoods where they would otherwise have been banned. Strip clubs simply put more space aside for nonsexual entertainment -- one opened a sushi bar -- and video stores offered action thrillers and comedies as well as sex DVD's. 
 The new regulations, said John Feinblatt, the city's criminal justice coordinator, would establish a ''common-sense test'' for whether a business qualifies as a sex shop. Peep shows, signs excluding minors, and other features would all qualify a business as a sex shop and subject it to the more stringent regulations that govern such establishments, he said.
 Under those rules, established in 1995, sex shops are banned from residential and most commercial zones. They are allowed in industrial zones and some commercial ones, including parts of Eighth Avenue, the garment district in Midtown, and the West Side of Manhattan. But there is a catch: No sex shop may sit within 500 feet of another such business, of a zone from which they are prohibited, or of ''sensitive receptors'' like schools or houses of worship.
 Mr. Feinblatt said that should the new regulations go into effect, the city would immediately begin reinspecting sex shops to see if they were in compliance.
 The 500-foot requirement could prove particularly nettlesome for a large number of the stores. On the west side of Eighth Avenue, for example, three stores selling sex videos --Hustler Video Xtremes, Nilupul Video, and DVD Blowout -- occupy a row of storefronts just around the corner from St. Luke's Lutheran Church on 46th Street.
 Farther down Eighth Avenue, on 40th Street, three video stores occupy a single building, No. 300. To the east, in the heart of the garment district, are a number of other sex shops, some of them within a block or so of the Millinery Center Synagogue on the Avenue of the Americas.
 It was in part to crack down on such ''clustering'' -- which some community leaders say drives out potential high-end tenants and retards economic development -- that the 1995 rules were established. 
 ''The problem we really have is the clustering,'' said Barbara Randall, executive director of the Fashion Center Business Improvement District, which has experienced one of the largest growths in sex-themed businesses, in part because many of the side streets in the district are zoned industrial.
 If the new laws are upheld, she noted, the number of such shops will drop significantly. ''Even if we max out on the number of porn places we have in the neighborhood, we'll have far fewer than now, and that would be great,'' Ms. Randall said.
 But it would not be so great for the store owners, some of whom have spent years trying to stay open legally.
 ''They have expended so much money trying to comply with the city's ever-changing regulations,'' said Jaymee Kahn, a lawyer who helps represent Ten's World-Class Cabaret, a strip club on 21st Street, between Park Avenue and Broadway. ''If they say 60/40 isn't good enough, I think my client would be unable to continue to operate.''
 Not all the video stores and strip clubs would be in danger. A few were exempted when the 1995 changes were made. And some stores may move to an industrial zone or comply with the new law, though that would render them all but unrecognizable as sex-themed businesses.
 Mr. Feinblatt, the criminal justice coordinator, said the blocks would change or the stores would. ''That,'' he said, ''translates into a better quality of life for those who live in that neighborhood.''
 At least some owners appear to be preparing for a new regulatory regime. The building at 300 West 40th Street, which houses three X-rated video stores, used to have a fourth. One of its employees, who declined to give his name, said last week at the store that it had switched to selling exclusively mainstream movies about a month ago. 
 But a few minutes later, an employee of a store next door -- who also refused to give his name but said all four establishments had the same owner -- denied that the newly rechristened store had ever sold X-rated material.
 ''It used to be a candy store,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Playpen, on Eighth Avenue between 43rd and 44th Streets
 Peepworld, a similar video sex shop, is just two doors down. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ZONING (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (74%); LAWYERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



355 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Here's to the Loafers Who Lunch

BYLINE: By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
NEW YORK is a city of professionals and predawn discipline, an empire meant to be conquered not by wanderers but by the lusty achievement of the hyperemployed. Languorous weekday afternoons are the province of those deemed to be lacking in power. 
 Still, a fair portion of the city's employable population can be found, midweek, far from any office, whiling away the hours in restaurants and cafes. Unlike the corps of freelance writers with their laptops, these loiterers do not appear to be engaged in any income-producing work. Call them flaneurs, if you want to romanticize them with a French name. Some are princes of leisure, who clearly have never learned that a bank account may approach zero. Others are conscientious objectors to the rat race, who have decided that their personal freedom is worth more than the compromises that might gain you a flat-screen TV. 
 All of them -- superrich, rich or merely upper middle class -- have somehow inoculated themselves against the fiscal anxiety that drives most unemployed people to try to get a job. And they have enough disposable income to afford the minimum entry (a cup of coffee) into one of the precious places that allows low-revenue loafing. 
 Scattered throughout this alternative ecosystem of cafes, these people off the city grid appear to be upstanding folks with open wallets and nice footwear. But who are they? Why are they not working? And how on earth can they afford those shoes?

Downtown Cipriani

3:30 P.M. ON A WEDNESDAY -- The outside tables at Downtown Cipriani, on West Broadway in SoHo, were packed. Robert Dimin, an artist; Justin Melnick, a young entrepreneur; and Nicole Trunfio, a model, sat inside, around a bottle of Acqua Panna ($9) and lemonades (at $5.50 each).
 Mr. Dimin wore a black baseball cap with an orange Princeton ''P'' pulled low over his forehead. ''It's the only time to come here,'' he said. ''Weekdays, when everyone else is working.''
 Ms. Trunfio got up to leave, and Mr. Melnick walked her out. They stood by his black Vespa, which has custom black matte rims, racing tires and a pipe that makes it sound like a Harley. 
 ''Tomorrow is my birthday,'' Mr. Dimin said. ''I turn 25. That's old.'' He swore he had nothing fabulous planned, just a private party at Lotus.
 ''I view myself as a downtowner,'' said Mr. Dimin, who grew up on the Upper East Side but now lives in Princeton. He said he had studied photography at Parsons but did not graduate. His fiancee, Elizabeth Kessler, is working toward a Ph.D. in archaeology at Princeton University, and he is not, at present, employed. 
 ''I only want to make my own projects,'' he said. ''I get yelled at every day by my family: 'Get a job. Go work for The A.P. Use your skills.' I can't. I have to do it my way.'' 
 He was wearing a black Burberry pique shirt and striking orange Nikes. How could an idealist afford such stuff? ''My $150 Nikes that should have cost $35?'' Mr. Dimin said. ''A lot of gifts. And my art sells for a lot of money.''
 Mr. Dimin's work, shown at CVZ Contemporary, includes photographs of nubile young women and an American flag fashioned of gray-and-blue fatigued cloth -- much like the material of Mr. Dimin's baggy shorts -- and stripes of the same thin Prada red that graces his beat-up wallet. 
 ''I don't like money,'' Mr. Dimin insisted. ''I'm not rich like a lot of people I know, like the 'Born Rich' movie. That's an entirely different ballgame. I'm the poorest kid of the rich kids.'' 
 Mr. Melnick, 24, came back inside and put an NTB herbal cigarette in his mouth, but didn't light it. ''I'm quitting,'' he said. 
 Mr. Melnick, who said he dropped out of the University of Denver to help open a restaurant, explained that he split his time among New York, Los Angeles and Paris, running a nightclub and restaurant consultancy. He is also developing a line of surfer clothing. ''For me the most depressing thing would be to make $10 million and have it be a Von Dutch,'' he said, referring to a popular clothing line.
 He gazed at a photo of the 25-foot climbing wall at his old high school, the White Mountain School, in New Hampshire. ''I wanted to expand the climbing program,'' he said. ''So I raised the 15 grand it cost to build it.'' When pressed for details, Mr. Melnick explained, ''The way my father looked at it was as a tax write-off.'' (School officials said that Mr. Melnick's father contributed $9,000; they raised the rest.)
 The bill for the lemonades, which numbered about 10, was left on the table unexamined. Mr. Melnick simply announced, ''I'm buying.''

Doma

3:00 P.M. ON A FRIDAY -- Doma Cafe and Gallery, on Perry Street, was packed. Lee Bob Black, 31, moved through the place like a prince in his court. He seemed to know a quarter of the 20 people in the cafe.
 He settled briefly by the window to discuss weekend plans with Edwin John Wintle, 43, a former lawyer and author of the coming memoir ''Breakfast With Tiffany.'' ''I wrote a good portion of my first book here,'' said Mr. Wintle, who works part-time. ''If I don't sell another book, I'll be poor in less than six months.'' 
 ''I'm just an unpublished writer,'' Mr. Black said. ''I made a bunch of money at Morgan Stanley, and I haven't worked in a year.'' He said his first literary effort had been rejected by 60 agents. He spent only $1.63 on coffee that afternoon, and his black Skechers looked worn beyond their four months. ''I don't have expensive tastes,'' he said.
 Nearby, at a large wooden table, sat Brian Moore, 35. To look on him is to think ''wage earner.'' Formerly a compensation analyst at Genentech in San Francisco, Mr. Moore had moved to New York seven months earlier to be with his fiancee, a resident at St. Vincent's Hospital. 
 Tired, he said, of PowerPoint and e-mail, he decided to study for a commercial pilot's license, and he spent most of the afternoon hunched over a training manual.
 Waywardness does not sit easily. ''It's a little unnerving,'' he said, referring to his slightly adrift afternoons. ''I've tended to seek steady pay and security. Now I'm going off on an adventure. There are days when I think, 'What am I doing?' Other days I think, 'You only have one life to live.'''
 He's living, in part, off his Genentech stock, but he said he was at a point at which he had to differentiate needs from wants. A flat-panel television? Definitely a want.
 A friend at an investment bank had offered to help find him a job at her company, Mr. Moore said, but he said he cannot conceive of it. ''I'd have to get a $10,000 signing bonus just for the wardrobe,'' he said.

Via Quadronno

3:45 P.M. ON A FRIDAY -- The small tables at Via Quadronno were packed. Paolo Della Puppa, an owner of the restaurant, on East 73rd Street, sat in back, discoursing on the origins of the European cafe and the European coffee, a trajectory that touched on Turks, Yemenis and the Habsburg dynasty.
 Mr. Della Puppa is Italian, and many of his patrons share his European roots. ''American rich, you are a C.E.O., you have no time,'' he said. ''Italian rich, they live like rich people. They go to work at noon. They enjoy life.''
 Via Quadronno is host to a rotating assortment of diplomats, guests of the nearby Carlyle hotel, private-school moms, members of the Agnelli family and the occasional teenager possessed of a black American Express card. 
 Yet Sue Ventura and her husband, Lou, are also regulars. Mrs. Ventura, a student at the New York School of Interior Design, did not enter the world of the $4 afternoon cappuccino until middle age. In 1994 -- in honor of her 40th birthday -- she quit her job as a bond trader after 15 years on Wall Street. ''My liberation,'' she said, beaming. Her husband still works as a senior managing director at Bear Stearns, though he joins her there after work most days.
 Now, instead of eating at her desk, she practices Italian with the staff at Via Quadronno. But stepping out of a life of hyperproductivity, she says, where one's value is as quantifiable as one's trading powers, was as unsettling as it was glorious. 
 She has reconciled herself to slowness. ''Life is fleeting,'' she said. ''You've got to step back every once in a while.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LAZY DAYS -- Robert Dimin, center, at Downtown Cipriani with two friends. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
BETTER THAN THE WATER COOLER -- Sue Ventura, an interior design student, spends days at Via Quadronno.
 STUDY HALL -- Brian Moore pores over his flight training manual at Doma. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOTWEAR (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY (63%); TIRES (60%); WRITERS (56%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) Restaurants; Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Erika Kinetz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



356 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; INSIDE THE NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Here It Comes: The Sarbanes-Oxley Backlash

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
FOR corporate America, it is always a good time to lobby -- even when the public image of business is increasingly associated with executive perp walks.
 Last week, business representatives gathered in Washington at an all-day roundtable discussion held by federal regulators and complained about the cost of complying with a provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate reform law. Not one business leader asked to repeal the law, which was passed in 2002 after a wave of financial scandals, or to gut it. Nearly every executive, however, lamented the costs of compliance.
 The criticism is striking, given that it comes against a backdrop of continuing revelations of potential fraud, criminal prosecution of fraud and convictions on fraud charges. Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, is awaiting sentencing after being convicted last month of fraud, conspiracy and filing false reports. Trials of former Enron executives are set to begin this week. Arthur Andersen, audit firm to both WorldCom and Enron, is still fighting to save its reputation and its few remaining assets in a lawsuit brought by WorldCom shareholders. 
 ''There've been so many companies that have gotten in trouble, none of them want to come out now and say we oppose'' the law, said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission who now works at Glass, Lewis & Company, an investment research firm in San Francisco. ''It just leaves people with a bad feeling about that company.''
 He added that the last person whom he had heard was bashing Sarbanes-Oxley was Maurice R. Greenberg of the American International Group, who resigned as chief executive last month amid a review of the company's accounting and who invoked the Fifth Amendment when being interviewed by investigators last week. 
 ''I don't think you're going to see that anymore,'' Mr. Turner said of executives' campaigning against Sarbanes-Oxley.
 Instead, executives are pushing for what they describe as specific changes in the implementation of the law, while singing its praises in general terms.
 ''There is no question that, broadly speaking, Sarbanes-Oxley was necessary,'' said John A. Thain, chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange, in remarks echoed by others at the roundtable.
 Nick S. Cyprus, controller and chief accounting officer for the Interpublic Group of Companies, was even more specific, praising a provision of the law that has become a particular target for many critics. ''I'm a big advocate of 404,'' he said, referring to Section 404 of the law, ''and I would not make any changes at this time.''
 Section 404 requires companies and their auditors to assess the companies' internal controls, which are the practices or systems for keeping records and preventing abuse or fraud. Something as simple as requiring two people to sign a company check, for example, is one type of internal control. 
 Of the 2,500 companies that filed internal controls reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the end of March, about 8 percent, or 200, found material weaknesses, the agency's chairman, William H. Donaldson, said at the roundtable. That exceeds the 5.6 percent rate that Compliance Week magazine found in a review of the first 1,457 companies to report.
 Executives at the roundtable consistently said that complying with Section 404 has been more expensive than they had anticipated, and they questioned whether the benefit -- which no one has been able to quantify -- is worth the cost.
 There are, perhaps unsurprisingly, several studies of the cost of compliance from various business groups. Financial Executives International, a networking and advocacy organization, said last month that a survey of 217 publicly traded companies showed they had spent $4.36 million, on average, to comply with Section 404.
 A different survey, of 90 clients of the Big Four accounting firms -- Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, Ernst & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers -- found that the companies spent an average of $7.8 million on compliance. That was about 0.10 percent of their revenue, and less than the $9.8 million paid, on average, to C.E.O.'s at 179 companies whose annual filings were surveyed earlier this month in Sunday Business. 
 The accounting firms noted that as companies become more familiar with Section 404, the amount they spend to comply with it may drop this year, by as much as 46 percent, according to the survey.
 Despite forecasts like this, complaints seem to have registered with regulators. William J. McDonough, the chairman of the S.E.C.'s Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, said at Wednesday's event that the agency would consider ways to provide more guidance on 404 requirements in the next few months.
 The quiet campaign against provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may have had something to do with the proposal by Representative Ron Paul, a Republican from Texas, on Thursday to eliminate Section 404 entirely. In a statement, the congressman said the provision ''has raised the costs of doing business, thus causing foreign companies to withdraw from American markets and retarding economic growth.''
 But representatives of institutional investors emphasized that they are the real parties paying the bill for compliance, and that they are happy to do so. Changes to the rules -- and certainly to the underlying legislation -- are premature, Cynthia L. Richson, corporate governance officer for the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System, said in a telephone interview after the roundtable. ''At this point,'' she said, ''the benefits are just starting to be realized and, of course, the first year is going to be somewhat difficult from a cost perspective.''
 Scott C. Newquist, chief executive of Board Governance Services, a consulting firm to corporate directors, said he felt little sympathy for executives seeking to lighten the burden of the new reporting requirements. After all, he said, the law was passed in the wake of several big corporate frauds. ''It relates back to the argument that there are only a few bad apples and it's not a systemic problem,'' he said. ''I would argue that a lot of these problems are systemic.''
 BEYOND the costs of assessing their internal controls, executives focused on a few specific concerns. Auditors, they said, were too conservative -- requiring disclosure of everything, testing controls that could not have a material effect on financial reports -- because they worry about second guessing by regulators and plaintiffs' lawyers. 
 Meeting the demands of Section 404, they added, also took time away from more productive activities. Executives from smaller public companies said they should not have to meet the same requirements as larger companies, which they said have more resources to handle regulatory compliance. Several executives complained that relations with outside auditors had deteriorated.
 Raymond J. Beier, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said that while some of these concerns had merit, 2004 was the first year that the new rules had been in place. ''Refinements in the process will better serve the system,'' he said in a telephone interview after the roundtable.
 Ms. Richson of the Ohio pension fund said the environment might only become more charged, and added that she expected companies to try to weaken Section 404 and other Sarbanes-Oxley provisions once the atmosphere turned more friendly to business.
 ''If you listened carefully, you can reach the conclusion that there's more to come, if the business interests are successful at trying to erode some of the investor protections that were put in place three years ago,'' she said. ''That would not be a good thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''There is no question that, broadly speaking, Sarbanes-Oxley was necessary,'' John Thain, chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange, said at a business roundtable. (Photo by Sebastian Derungs/Reuters)
 William McDonough, head of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, said the agency would consider ways to provide more guidance on reporting requirements. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Problems With the Books''One part of the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate governance law requires publicly traded companies to assess their financial record keeping and fraud prevention. Dozens of companies have acknowledged that their internal controls were ''not effective,'' ''ineffective,'' ''not fairly stated,'' or otherwise deficient.INDUSTRY: Metals, miningCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 4TOTAL COMPANIES: 27FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 14.8%INDUSTRY: Aerospace, defenseCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 7FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 14.3INDUSTRY: Computer hardware, softwareCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 3TOTAL COMPANIES: 28FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 10.7INDUSTRY: Telecommunications equipmentCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 4TOTAL COMPANIES: 39FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 10.3INDUSTRY: Consumer servicesCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 10FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 10.0INDUSTRY: Business servicesCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 14TOTAL COMPANIES: 180FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 7.8INDUSTRY: ElectronicsCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 8TOTAL COMPANIES: 112FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 7.1INDUSTRY: Energy, utilitiesCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 8TOTAL COMPANIES: 112FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 7.1INDUSTRY: ChemicalsCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 2TOTAL COMPANIES: 30FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 6.7INDUSTRY: RetailCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 3TOTAL COMPANIES: 52FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.8INDUSTRY: Consumer products manufacturersCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 3TOTAL COMPANIES: 53FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.7INDUSTRY: InsuranceCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 4TOTAL COMPANIES: 77FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.2INDUSTRY: Industrial manufacturingCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 4TOTAL COMPANIES: 82FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.9INDUSTRY: LeisureCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 21FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.8INDUSTRY: Automotive, transportationCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 2TOTAL COMPANIES: 43FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.7INDUSTRY: MediaCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 2TOTAL COMPANIES: 43FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.7INDUSTRY: ConstructionCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 24FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.2INDUSTRY: Transportation servicesCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 24FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.2INDUSTRY: Financial servicesCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 11TOTAL COMPANIES: 267FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 4.1INDUSTRY: PharmaceuticalsCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 4TOTAL COMPANIES: 123FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 3.3INDUSTRY: Health careCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 1TOTAL COMPANIES: 74FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 1.4INDUSTRY: Food, beverageCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 0TOTAL COMPANIES: 16FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 0INDUSTRY: Real estateCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 0TOTAL COMPANIES: 12FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 0INDUSTRY: AgricultureCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 0TOTAL COMPANIES: 1FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 0TOTALCOMPANIES THAT FAILED: 82TOTAL COMPANIES: 1,457FAILED AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.6%Note: Data are companies in the Russell 3000 with fiscal year ended Nov. 30, 2004, the first companies to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404.(Source by Compliance Week and Raisch Financial Information Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); STOCK INDEXES (84%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SENTENCING (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); SCANDALS (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); CONSPIRACY (74%); AUDITS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); CRIME PREVENTION (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (62%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); IPG (NYSE) (62%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



357 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Let Us Praise Slow Growers

BYLINE: By Daniel Gross. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
THE next big thing in investing is what the strategists and economists at brokerage houses have taken to calling the BRIC's -- Brazil, Russia, India and China. These developing countries sport high growth rates, and produce and consume prodigious quantities of commodities, from oil to soybeans. 
 It's easy to see how their rapid emergence directly affects the American economy. Many discussions about the price of oil, the specter of commodity-driven inflation, and the burgeoning trade deficit begin and end with the BRIC's. 
 But the focus on the globe's economic hotspots may be overshadowing some of the world's slower-growing, established economies that are the longtime trading partners of the United States. When macroeconomists talk about deficits in the context of today's global economy, they usually refer to America's twin deficits -- the government budget deficit and the current account deficit. But economists say a third deficit, the so-called ''growth deficit'' in Europe and Japan, is having important effects on the United States economy.
 Earlier this month, the European Central Bank reduced its forecast of 2005 growth for the Euro area--the 12 nations using the Euro as their currency -- from 2.0 percent to 1.6 percent. The International Monetary Fund last week said it expected Japan's economy to grow by a mere 0.8 percent in 2005. The I.M.F. expects the United States to grow 3.6 percent.
 ''Our trade and financial relations with Europe and Japan are still very large and significant,'' said Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at New York University's Stern School of Business. Two-way trade between the United States and European Union members was $41.1 billion in February, second only to Canada. Trade with Japan was $15 billion, compared with $19 billion for China. 
 Lakshman Achuthan, managing director at the New York-based Economic Cycle Research Institute, notes that the volume of United States trade with the G-6 countries (Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canada) is four times as large as the trade with China and India combined.
 Consider the weakness of American exports. The level of imports tends to grab headlines -- $161.5 billion in February, the Commerce Department reported last Tuesday. But exports matter, too, especially since they can stimulate domestic job creation. In February, exports totaled just $100.4 billion. 
 The large developed economies of Japan and Europe have the resources -- in theory -- to buy the expensive goods and services the United States produces. ''Japan and Europe are still very important when it comes to exports,'' said Jeffrey Frankel, an economist at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government and a former member the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton. ''And the story that U.S. exports have been stagnating for the last four years is really underplayed.'' Exports of goods and services fell from 11.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2000 to 10.3 percent in 2004. 
 Clearly, slow growth in large overseas economies harms exports. But the seemingly chronic weakness in Europe and Japan is a boon to the vast portion of the American economy that is sensitive to interest rates. ''I think the biggest single way it's affected the U.S. economy is that investment levels in Japan and Europe are very low -- and that's keeping global interest rates low,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard University.
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has spoken of the conundrum of persistently low rates -- about 4.24 percent on the 10-year Treasury note -- on United States government debt. But because growth in Europe and Japan remains muted, and because monetary policy remains accommodative in those areas, United States government bonds seem high-yielding compared with their Japanese and European counterparts.
 The growth deficit in Europe and Japan is also helping to tamp down inflation. ''With the exception of oil, global inflationary pressures remain subdued,'' said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. If Japan and Europe were growing at a more rapid clip, oil prices would likely be far higher. And a small difference in growth in a slow-growing giant can help ignite the fear of inflation. In 1999, Mr. Achuthan said, when Japan's economy moved from contraction to expansion, it helped cause a spike in oil and commodities. 
 Perhaps the idling economic motors in Europe and Japan receive so little notice because we've become accustomed to them. After all, Japan's economy hasn't grown robustly for nearly a decade and a half. And some of the reasons for the lower growth are structural -- low population growth and constrictive labor laws in Europe in particular.
 BUT in macroeconomics, as in investing, past performance is no guarantee of future results. In the early 1990's there was a perception that Europe and Japan were going to be growing more rapidly than the United States, thanks to their allegedly superior industrial policy. Paul Tsongas, who once sought the Democratic presidential nomination, used to say that the Cold War was over, and Germany and Japan had won. 
 Just so, the differential in growth rates between the United States and Europe and Japan ''isn't going to go on forever,'' said Professor Rogoff. The United States may be growing somewhat faster than its long-term growth rate, and Japan and Europe may be growing somewhat more slowly than their potential growth. ''People who extrapolate are just not looking at history,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Meet the Laggards''Graph tracks real gross domestic product (annual percentage change) for United States, Euro Zone and Japan from 2002 through projected 2005.(Source by International Monetary Fund)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



358 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: A Late Step in Norwalk's Renewal

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: South Norwalk 

 BODY:
THE 20-year conversion of South Norwalk's once decaying and dangerous waterfront into SoNo, a lively district of condos, shops and restaurants, is in its final stage. Only two projects remain to be built under the city's urban renewal plan.
 The first, which is to break ground in May, is a condominium and rental complex called Maritime Yards. It will overlook the Norwalk River and a linear waterfront park. It sits just north of the Maritime Aquarium and three blocks from Washington Street and the heart of SoNo. 
 The second project is much further from construction, however. It involves a 12.5-acre site on West Avenue, owned since 1984 by Fred F. French Investments L.L.C., where work is stalled in a lawsuit over the acquisition of the last 1.6 acres.
 The lawsuit does not prevent French from erecting one of four buildings that are zoned to allow 1.15 million square feet of offices on the site, but it has been unable to attract a tenant committed to taking 100,000 square feet of space. Timon Malloy, president of Fred F. French in Stamford, said, ''We will not build without a tenant.'' 
 In a surprise action, the Spinnaker Companies of Stamford, the city-designated developer of the entire urban renewal project, has moved to take a stake in the site. ''Spinnaker has made a joint venture with French and has submitted a request to the city for approval,'' Norwalk's mayor, Alex A. Knopp, said. The companies themselves have not yet announced the deal.
 Mr. Knopp said the city is hoping the site will have Class A office space for 95 percent of the project and retailing for 5 percent, ''to improve the commercial grand list,'' he said, adding that Norwalk has worked for many years helping French to acquire 27 parcels by eminent domain. ''In the view of commercial real estate brokers,'' he said, ''the tract is a premier office site in the New York metro region based on its size and location 50 feet from Interstate 95 and 200 feet from Route 7.'' 
 The lawsuit was brought by Maritime Motors, a Chevrolet dealership at 51 West Avenue, which bought the property two years ago from the former operator for $1.765 million, knowing that it was a candidate for acquisition by eminent domain. Rather than accept a city offer of $2.05 million, it sued the city and the Redevelopment Agency in Superior Court, arguing that it should have been integrated into the 12.5-acre tract and that it could find no other location as profitable. The court upheld the city, and Maritime Motors lost again on an appeal from the court's ruling.
 Now it is suing in State Supreme Court. ''They never asked for integration,'' said Lou Cicarello, corporation counsel for the city. ''When they didn't get their price of $6.4 million, they sued.''
 Mayor Knopp said that ''until the court comes to a decision, there's not much point to putting a shovel in the ground.''
 On a happier note, the Spinnaker Companies, in partnership with Greenfield Partners and the Summit Corporation, will complete the purchase of the city-owned 3.7-acre Maritime Yards site this month for an undisclosed sum. Remediation and construction are to begin in May and June for an eight-story building with 61 condominium units; two five-story buildings with a total of 136 rental apartments, ground floor shops and restaurants; and a total of 343 indoor and outdoor parking spaces. Twenty units -- both condos and rentals -- priced according to a state ''affordable'' formula will be distributed throughout the complex.
 Construction costs alone will be around $60 million, said Bruce Beinfield, head of Beinfield Architects of Norwalk, designers of new construction and adaptive reuse of 19th-century brick factories throughout the urban renewal area. 
 The condo units range from 872 to 2,498 square feet in 14 floor plans of one to three bedrooms. Five penthouse units have terraces measuring 30 to 50 feet long. Smaller units with balconies will be priced from the $300,000's; others will range up to nearly $1 million. Gas fireplaces are to be installed in the penthouses and in 14 other condo units. All units will have laundry rooms, some with storage space, or use of storage cubicles and bicycle racks in the basement.
 The two rental buildings offer 10 plans for one- and two-bedroom apartments of 765 to 1,200 square feet, and priced around $1,700 to $2,600 a month. Half the units will have balconies. One building will have a community or party room.
 A 50-foot-long outdoor lap pool will be screened by landscaping and a fence. The pool and a changing room will be free to renters and available to condo owners for a fee. 
 The entire complex will have gas cooking and heating/cooling, fitness centers and business centers.
 According to Mr. Beinfield, everything will be ''as 'green' as possible,'' referring to a 64-item checklist drawn up by the United States Green Building Council, a coalition that promotes the development of buildings that are environmentally responsible. The council has created a set of standards involving building materials, energy use and other factors that can lead to the certification of a project as attaining gold, silver or bronze status. ''Some municipalities give tax rebates for certified projects,'' said Fritz Morris, a lead architect at the Beinfield firm.
 Constantly on the lookout for new materials, Mr. Beinfield noted that the floors will be bamboo, whose use environmentalists encourage. ''It grows quickly,'' he said. ''It's very hard and does not use up natural resources like oak, which is getting scarcer and takes a long time to grow.'' The flooring is installed on rubber pads that insulate and soundproof between floors.
 Another ''green'' component is window glass that keeps heat out in summer, traps it inside in winter and is slightly tinted to reduce glare.
 The marketing of the condos, Mr. Fowler said, is to begin in late May in a storefront on Marshall Street. ''People will choose and make deposits from floor plans and finishes,'' he said. The units are to be ready in August 2006, and although the rental apartments will be completed at the same time, ''we will not lease until 90 days before occupancy,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEAR THE RIVER -- Maritime Yards is to have 61 condominium units and 136 rental apartments, including 20 categorized as ''affordable'' under a state formula. (Photo by Beinfield Architecture P.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LAW (85%); ZONING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal; Housing ; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: Spinnaker Cos; french, fred f, investments llc

PERSON: Eleanor Charles; Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



359 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: How Smokers' Ills Saved a Hospital, Twice

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
IN 1998, when the county spun Westchester Medical Center off as a public-benefit corporation -- landing it in that limbo neither public nor private -- it gave the hospital money to get its footing. The act was akin to giving newlyweds a blender, except that the source was more interesting: the county offered its share of a national legal settlement with tobacco makers. And so it was that the fruits of trial lawyers' labor went toward health care, whose costs keep rising in part because of trial lawyers' labor. 
 All seemed rosy at the Valhalla-based hospital until 2002 -- when, if you believe county officials, they first became aware of serious financial problems. Given the county's long association with the center, and given that its own bond rating hinges in part on its guarantee of tens of millions of dollars of the center's debt, some may argue that their awareness should have dawned a little sooner. 
 The point is, it didn't, and in the past year, as other area hospitals have closed, the situation at this one has become dire. Considering that it recently missed a multimillion-dollar scheduled payment to the state pension fund, some of those close to the situation would not have been surprised by word of its imminent closure. 
 Let it never be said, however, that the potential loss of the most advanced hospital in the Hudson Valley has not stimulated the creative ingenuity of the county government. Its officials, moving into an election year, are fully aware of the stakes: more than 3,000 jobs; $1 billion to the local economy; the bond rating; and the likelihood that the next time an emergency occurs, the public will hear reports of a shuttered burn unit unavailable to injured firefighters, or of car-crash victims flown in a panic to far-flung hospitals. 
 Any one of these evils could be problematic for Andrew J. Spano on the campaign trail, even though he did win his 2001 race by a landslide. 
 The hospital has been begging for cash infusions since February, and with lives and re-election at stake, what did the best and brightest of our county government come up with? They asked the state to extend the one-quarter of 1 percent sales tax and send a bunch of the bounty to Valhalla, but this was a nonstarter with the State Legislature.
 Mr. Spano called on neighboring counties to pitch in, pointing out that their residents also use the hospital. But this source, too, is unlikely to produce in any meaningful way. (And if it did, imagine the tables' being turned, and Westchester residents having to pay to rescue the shopping bag of failed hospitals they have patronized in New York City.) 
 Then, earlier this month, with nowhere else to turn, officials had a brainstorm: the tobacco settlement money -- yes, that same money -- would be refinanced, giving the hospital a quick hit of $27 million and ongoing amounts in the 20 years after that.
 Alone, it is not enough to keep the hospital afloat, said Richard A. Berman, chairman of the hospital board and, by coincidence or not, chairman of the trust that handles the tobacco money. And the truth is that whether the money comes from double-dipping in the Marlboro fund, or Martha Stewart's bail stash, or the tooth fairy, it buys the hospital the one commodity most needed right now: time.
 ''It can give us almost half a year to solve our long-term issues,'' Mr. Berman said. ''If we didn't get the tobacco money, there would be 100 percent assurance that we would not get structural change.'' 
 But can structural change really happen at this point? Or are the flaws so deep that the tobacco money -- and any that follows -- is effectively being thrown down a black hole? 
 Mr. Berman admits to some organizational problems. Most of management is unionized, which is unusual for a business. Another quirk: 1,600 employees are civil service workers, making concepts like merit-based promotion a bit foreign. For years, said Larry S. Schwartz, the deputy county executive, the county hospital was a ''political patronage pit.'' 
 Susan Tolchin, chief adviser to Mr. Spano, asserts that the county government has confidence in the hospital and that its days of mismanagement are over. Mr. Schwartz adds that his own hopes for a turnaround are high. When asked how the well-regarded Mr. Berman, who has sat on the board since 1998 through so many troubles, can now, as chairman of a newly reconstituted group, solve them, Mr. Schwartz said: ''A board is only as good as the information it is given. To Richard's credit, he raised questions and members of the board were upset with him for it.'' 
 In other words, because he upset the old board, he can help right the hospital. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); LAWYERS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); BONDS (73%); WOUND CARE (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%); SALES TAX (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



360 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 5; Magazine Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 50 words

HEADLINE: The Art of Grading

 BODY:
 The Ethicist argues that ''one feature of a good grading system is that those measured by it generally regard it as fair and reasonable.'' Given this standard, every student should get an A because anything less would be considered ''unfair.'' This results in grade inflation.

Sally Bould
Newark, Del.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



361 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: REFRESH BUTTON; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Still Missing The Corner Office

BYLINE: By Robert Johnson

 BODY:
Few former chief executives acknowledge that they miss the power of running a company. That makes the candor of Josh S. Weston -- who retired as the chairman of Automatic Data Processing in 1998, two years after he stepped down as chief executive -- particularly refreshing.
 His life in retirement is busy and rewarding. He serves on the boards of J. Crew, the retailer; Gentiva Health Services, which provides nurses and health care services at home; and Russ Berrie & Company, a toy company. He also works as part of a group of business experts who advise the Pentagon. 
 But Mr. Weston, 76, said this could not compare to working in management, adding that ''as C.E.O., you can make things happen more effectively and faster than you can on a committee or in a volunteer role.''
 So he sounds openly wistful about his former life atop the corporate food chain. ''Being C.E.O. for 14 years, all growth years, was the best time in my life,'' he said.
 He is adjusting to retirement by taking on a wide range of responsibilities. He works with organizations including Boys Town Jerusalem, the United Nations Association and the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. ''I think it's very appropriate for successful senior citizens to give back with both mind and money to the society that helped them,'' he said.
 He is leaving highly visible footprints, too, such as the $10 million Weston Pavilion at the American Museum of Natural History; he and his wife of 50 years, Judy, financed the wing, which opened in 2001. 
 A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Weston earned a bachelor's degree in economics from City College of New York. As a Fulbright scholar, he received a master's in economics from the University of New Zealand. 
 After a stint in the Navy during the Korean War, he landed an administrative job at J. Crew's predecessor, where he worked until 1970 in positions such as president and chief operating officer. He moved into management at Automatic Data Processing, which had less than $30 million in annual revenue when he arrived and about $4 billion when he retired in 1998. He lives in Montclair, N.J., and is still provided a ''courtesy office'' by A.D.P.
 He said he was keen on continuing to work for companies and causes. ''It's so much more gratifying,'' he said, ''than gardening, golf and going to the movies.'' Robert Johnson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Josh S. Weston 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); TOYS & GAMES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); HISTORY (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); KOREAN WAR (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KIDS BRANDS INC (71%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (58%); GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%)

TICKER: KID (NYSE) (71%); ADP (NASDAQ) (58%); GTIV (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (57%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



362 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: State Officials Striving To Save MetLife Jobs

 BODY:
State officials said they would continue to try to reduce the number of jobs MetLife plans to eliminate in Hartford when it purchases Travelers Life and Annuity.
 John J. Calagna, a spokesman for MetLife, said Tuesday that 600 of the 1,800 Travelers Life positions in Hartford would be eliminated, while 100 other employees would be offered the chance to relocate. 
 Mr. Calagna said that 150 jobs would be cut as soon as the deal was consummated, with the remaining 450 eliminated within 6 to 12 months after the merger.
 Mr. Calagna said that he expected the deal to be completed this summer, after state and foreign regulatory approvals, and that the Travelers employees in Hartford had been told of their status by MetLife.
 In a statement issued Wednesday, Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said he would oppose the $11.5 billion acquisition because it is ''against the public interest.'' He said he would intervene in the approval proceedings by the state's Department of Insurance.
 ''It will destroy our economy and disadvantage families,'' Mr. Blumenthal said in the statement, referring to the acquisition. ''My message to MetLife is: Keep jobs in Hartford, or keep your hands off Travelers.
 ''MetLife is welcome to expand its presence in Connecticut, as long as it fulfills its public interest obligations to Travelers' employees, Hartford and the state.''
 Rich Harris, a spokesman for Gov. M. Jodi Rell, said that the governor and her staff had been meeting with MetLife officials to try to save jobs since the deal was announced in late January.
 ''I think we had some success,'' he said. ''But the governor is still not happy with the numbers as they are now.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RELOCATIONS (71%); INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (94%); TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO (58%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (73%); M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



363 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: How One Pill Escaped Place On Steroid List

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT and DUFF WILSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16 

 BODY:
On the shelves of health stores across the country sits a dietary supplement that advertisements boast can ''significantly alter body composition'' -- by converting to steroids in the bloodstream and, for some, helping pump up muscles as traditional steroids do.
 But unlike every other substance in the steroid family, the supplement, DHEA, is not classified as a controlled drug. In fact, the chalky white pills and capsules enjoy an exemption under federal law, thanks to a bill passed by Congress late last year.
 How DHEA, or dehydroepiandrosterone, came to enjoy legal protections granted by Congress -- at the very moment that steroid abuse was grabbing national headlines, and just months before Congress itself held hearings on the use of body-building drugs in professional baseball -- is a study in skillful political maneuvering, according to participants in the deal.
 Sports officials had favored an overall ban on steroids and related pills, like DHEA, which is banned by the Olympics, the World Anti-Doping Agency, the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association and baseball minor leagues. 
 Major League Baseball is the exception on banning DHEA, and at last month's Congressional hearings, the top medical adviser to the league turned the tables on lawmakers, accusing them of failing to write zero tolerance toward steroids into federal law. Baseball officials say that the legal loophole has made it harder for them to ban DHEA in their own policy, which is already under fire.
 ''It is difficult, from a collective bargaining perspective, to explain to people why they should ban a substance that the federal government says you can buy at a nutrition center,'' said Rob Manfred, executive vice president for labor relations at Major League Baseball.
 Nevertheless, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, a Republican who represents a state where many dietary supplements are produced and who is a longtime champion of herbal remedies, felt strongly last year that DHEA must be kept legal and available as an ''anti-aging'' pill. Other lawmakers and staff members said he threatened to kill a far-reaching piece of legislation restricting the sale of other steroids, educating children about the dangers of steroids and increasing penalties for illegal use if his colleagues did not agree to include an exemption for DHEA.
 His son Scott Hatch is a lobbyist for the National Nutritional Foods Association, a trade association for the dietary supplement industry, and has represented supplement companies themselves, including Twin Laboratories, which sells DHEA. The elder Mr. Hatch said he did not think he had been lobbied by his son, and cited the legitimate uses for DHEA as his reason for fighting for it. 
 ''There is a big argument that DHEA is very beneficial for health and well-being,'' Mr. Hatch said, noting that he did not believe there was significant opposition to leaving DHEA on the market. ''I didn't see much resistance,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''There are always those who are against any dietary supplement or anything not subject to total FDA approval.'' He was joined in fighting for the exemption by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, a leading supporter of dietary supplements. 
 Most DHEA is manufactured in China from the dried roots of wild yam. About $47 million worth was sold in the United States in 2003, the most recent year for which sales figures have been compiled, according to Patrick D. Rea, research director for The Nutrition Business Journal. In humans, where DHEA is produced naturally in the adrenal glands, levels of the hormone usually peak by age 25. The synthetic version is primarily marketed as an anti-aging drug. 
 The F.D.A. banned over-the-counter sales of DHEA in 1985. It reappeared after Congress passed the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, releasing a flood of supplements classified as foods rather than drugs, and not requiring the F.D.A.'s approval. Senators Hatch and Harkin also led the push for that bill.
 Although DHEA advocates say the supplement has a good safety record, there have been only limited studies of its performance and side effects. Its promised benefits, including enhanced mental acuity and slowed aging, have not been proven conclusively, and some scientists say there is still concern it could accelerate cancers. 
 ''There isn't any logical reason it should be exempt,'' said Sidney Wolfe, director of the Health Research Group at Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization.
 Utah is a nexus for vitamin and supplement production and distribution. Loren D. Israelsen, executive director of the Utah Natural Products Alliance, said the industry started with four successful companies there and grew to more than a hundred. ''Success begets success,'' Mr.Israelsen said. 
 Senator Hatch and his son have a history of fighting for herbal remedies. The elder Hatch has played a leading role on two Senate committees that have oversight over the Food and Drug Administration and the Drug Enforcement Agency. Senator Hatch was also author of the landmark legislation limiting the authority of the Food and Drug Administration to oversee supplements. 
 Senator Hatch has also in the past defended the herbal supplement ephedra, which has been linked with more than 100 deaths. He supported a federal ban of ephedra in April 2004 after the deaths were reported. A federal judge in Salt Lake City overturned the ban last week. 
 Lawmakers in both parties said the exemption for DHEA was created only in order to secure passage of a broader bill, the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004. 
 The law, which took effect on Jan. 20, expanded the definition of anabolic steroids to include substances like androstenedione, or andro, which turns into testosterone after it is ingested. Andro was made famous by the former St. Louis Cardinals player Mark McGwire, who admitted taking it around the time of his record-breaking home run season in 1998. Andro and other steroids can enhance muscle growth; if abused, they can cause longterm physical and psychological harm.
 As the abuse of steroid-like supplements became more widely discovered, athletic and medical groups pressed for stricter legislation, arguing that any substance that turns into a steroid hormone once it is digested should be regulated by the Drug Enforcement Administration. 
 But faced with opposition from Mr. Hatch, lawmakers ultimately decided it was not worth sinking the entire bill to ban DHEA, several said. The law, which was passed without objection, gave the Drug Enforcement Administration more power to ban new steroids, with one named exemption, DHEA.
 ''We had to make a practical decision to get it passed,'' said Representative John E. Sweeney, Republican of New York.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, said DHEA was protected ''because of the economic pressures from the dietary supplement people that stand to make a lot more money by selling it.''
 Besides the supplement industry and its select advocates in Congress, Mr. Waxman said: ''No one else argued it should be given an exemption. The only opposition came from the supplements industry, and they're making millions off the sale of DHEA supplements.'' 
 According to one Congressional aide who worked on writing the legislation, in one particularly intense negotiation with Senator Hatch, the Utah senator's staff members ''were adamant that they were not going to take out the exemption.'' 
 Other current and former Congressional staff members -- all speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk about back-room negotiations -- gave similar accounts. One senior aide who helped broker the agreement said: ''We had to do an exemption for DHEA not because it was the right thing to do, to be perfectly honest, but because it was the politically necessary thing to do.''
 Congressional aides said they had not dealt directly with Scott Hatch, the senator's son, but had worked with Jack Martin, a partner in his firm, on this and other supplement issues. Mr. Martin is a former longtime aide to Senator Hatch. They did not return calls for comment.
 Senator Hatch, in an interview, defended the DHEA exemption, calling it ''basically a good dietary supplement.'' ''Andro is an anabolic steroid precursor, and DHEA is far removed from that, from everything I've read and everything I've studied,'' he said. In fact, DHEA is a first cousin of andro: in the body, DHEA metabolizes into andro and then into testosterone.
 Asked whether his son had lobbied on the exemption, Mr. Hatch replied, ''Not that I know of.''
 ''In fact, he won't even talk to me. He is that touchy,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''He works the House and does it very honorably. He's very prissy about it, in fact. He doesn't have to be that prissy about it.'' He added: ''His business is his business, not mine.'' 
 With andro now illegal, athletes who want to try to get a steroid effect from a legal pill are now more likely to turn to DHEA, according to Dr. Gary Green of the Olympic Analytical Laboratory at the University of California, Los Angeles. Speaking to high school coaches in Texas about steroids in February, Dr. Green, an adviser to baseball, said coaches should ask why DHEA received an exemption, which member of Congress was responsible for that, what state he was from and what state makes products from DHEA. 
 But there is no evidence yet, other than chatter on Web sites, that athletes or young people are turning to DHEA as a replacement for traditional steroids and precursors, despite the fears of some medical experts that the trend will begin now that the law banning other substances has taken effect.
 Susan Trimbo, a scientist with General Nutrition Centers, one of the nation's largest sellers of DHEA, said the drug has a good safety record, with side effects including acne and some facial hair issues in women. The drug affects women more than men because women naturally produce less testosterone.
 ''It's a rather weak steroid, so I don't see it as a good substance for abuse, from my perspective,'' Ms. Trimbo said.
 But some advertisements do take aim at athletes, including promotions on the Web sites www.teenbodybuilding.com, www.bodybuilding.com and www.musclesurf.com.
 One advertisement says: ''DHEA is HOT, and you will see why. As a pre-cursor hormone, as it leads to the production of other hormones. When this compound is supplemented, it has been shown to have awesome effects.''
 Another advertisement, from AST Sports Sciences, says: ''What Can DHEA Do for Me? If you're a bodybuilder, and want to increase in lean body mass at the expense of body fat, studies show this supplement may significantly alter body composition, favoring lean mass accrual.''
 There have been few studies of the effects of large doses of DHEA. One, in 1988, found that DHEA decreased body fat and increased muscle mass in five young men given 1,600 milligrams a day for 28 days, compared with five men given placebos.
 ''Fortunately, reports of serious side effects to date have been minimal,'' Patricia D. Kroboth, dean at the University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy, wrote in a review article in 1999. But Dr. Kroboth noted there have been no large-scale clinical trials gathering information on side effects, concluding, ''Until we understand the risks and benefits of DHEA administration, its use in other than an experimental setting is not warranted.''

Beyond Balco
 Articles in this series are periodically examining medical and legal aspects of steroids.


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Tommy G. Thompson, the former health and human services secretary, Senator Orrin G. Hatch and Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the former head of the Food and Drug Administration, announced a crackdown on products with androstenedione last year. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
 DHEA is not classified as a controlled substance and has an exemption under the law thanks to a bill passed by Congress late last year. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 26)Chart: ''A Congressional Exemption''What is DHEA?Dehydroepiandrosterone is a powerful hormone that converts into other steroid hormones including estrogen, androstenedione and testosterone. Synthetic DHEA is manufactured, mostly in China, from diosgenin, a steroid-like substance extracted from the dried roots of wild yam.Where is DHEA banned?International Olympic CommitteeWorld Anti-Doping AgencyNational Collegiate Athletic AssociationNational Football LeagueNational Basketball Associationminor league baseballWhat action has Congress taken affecting DHEA?The Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004 added 26 more drugs to the list of controlled substances and increased the Drug Enforcement Administration's authority to ban other steroids -- with one exception. While the previous law had exempted medically necessary steroids, the new one adds DHEA to the list:The term ''anabolic steroid'' means any drug or hormonal substance, chemically and pharmacologically related to testosterone (other than estrogens, progestins, corticosteroids, and dehydroepiandrosterone).(Sources by Merck Manual, University of Maryland Medical Center, sports organizations, Department of Justice)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (92%); BASEBALL (91%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); HERBAL MEDICINE (73%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); BASKETBALL (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (89%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



364 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 7655 words

HEADLINE: The Unregulated Offensive 

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Rosen. 
Jeffrey Rosen, a law professor at George Washington University, is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He is at work on a book about democracy and the courts, to be published next year.

 BODY:

I. Justice Thomas's Other Controversy
If you think back to Clarence Thomas's Supreme Court confirmation hearings in 1991, what most likely comes to mind are the explosive allegations of sexual harassment made by the law professor Anita Hill. Years from now, however, when observers of the court look back on the hearings, they may well focus on a clash that preceded Hill's accusations -- an acrimonious exchange that few remember today.
 Early in the hearings, Joseph Biden, the Delaware Democrat who was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, voiced a concern about Thomas's judicial philosophy. In particular, he singled out a speech that Thomas gave in 1987 in which he expressed an affinity for the ideas of legal scholars like Richard A. Epstein. A law professor at the University of Chicago, Epstein was notorious in legal circles for his thesis that many of the laws underpinning the modern welfare state are unconstitutional. Thomas tried to assure Biden that he was interested in ideas like Epstein's only as a matter of ''political theory'' and that he would not actually implement them as a Supreme Court justice. Biden, apparently unpersuaded, picked up a copy of Epstein's 1985 book, ''Takings: Private Property and the Power of Eminent Domain,'' and theatrically waved it in the air. Anyone who embraced the book's extreme thesis, he seemed to be suggesting, was unfit to sit on the court.
 At the time, it was impossible to know whether Biden was right to worry. He was surely right, though, that Epstein was promoting a legal philosophy far more radical in its implications than anything entertained by Antonin Scalia, then, as now, the court's most irascible conservative. As Epstein sees it, all individuals have certain inherent rights and liberties, including ''economic'' liberties, like the right to property and, more crucially, the right to part with it only voluntarily. These rights are violated any time an individual is deprived of his property without compensation -- when it is stolen, for example, but also when it is subjected to governmental regulation that reduces its value or when a government fails to provide greater security in exchange for the property it seizes. In Epstein's view, these libertarian freedoms are not only defensible as a matter of political philosophy but are also protected by the United States Constitution. Any government that violates them is, by his lights, repressive. One such government, in Epstein's worldview, is our government. When Epstein gazes across America, he sees a nation in the chains of minimum-wage laws and zoning regulations. His theory calls for the country to be deregulated in a manner not seen since before Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.
 After Thomas joined the Supreme Court, Biden's warnings seemed prescient. In 1995, echoes of Epstein's ideas could be clearly heard in one of Thomas's opinions. By a 5-4 majority in United States v. Lopez, the court struck down a federal law banning guns in school zones, arguing that the law fell outside Congress's constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce. Lopez was a judicial landmark: it was the first time since the New Deal that the court had limited the power of the federal government on those grounds. Thomas, who sided with the majority, chose to write a separate opinion in which he suggested that even his conservative colleagues had not gone far enough. The real problem, he wrote, was not just with the law at hand but with the larger decision of the court during the New Deal to abandon the judicial doctrines of the 19th century that established severe limits on the government's power. He assailed his liberal colleagues for characterizing ''the first 150 years of this Court's case law as a 'wrong turn.''' He continued, ''If anything, the 'wrong turn' was the Court's dramatic departure in the 1930's from a century and a half of precedent.''
 Thomas did not cite Epstein directly in his opinion. But to anyone familiar with Epstein's writings, the similarities were striking. Indeed, Thomas's argument closely resembled one Epstein had made eight years earlier in ''The Proper Scope of the Commerce Power'' in the Virginia Law Review -- so closely, in fact, that Sanford Levinson, a liberal law professor at the University of Texas, accused Thomas of outright intellectual theft. (''The ordinary standards governing attribution of sources -- the violation of which constitutes plagiarism -- seem not to apply in Justice Thomas's chambers,'' Levinson wrote in the Texas Law Review.) Biden's fear that Epstein's ideas might be written into law had apparently been realized. And the fear would continue to be realized in other courts throughout the 90's as a small but energetic set of lower-court judges, sympathetic to libertarian arguments, tried to strike down aspects of the Clean Water Act, the Endangered Species Act and other laws, challenging powers of the federal government that had come to be widely accepted during the second half of the 20th century.
Chief Justice William Rehnquist is expected to announce his resignation sometime this year, perhaps before the end of the court's current term in June. Rehnquist's retirement would create at least one confirmation hearing for a new justice, and two hearings if President George W. Bush chooses to nominate one of the current justices to be chief justice. At the same time, there is a political battle looming in the Senate over seven federal appellate-court candidates whose nominations were blocked by Senate Democrats during Bush's first term but who were renominated by the president after his re-election. Many liberals and centrists worry, and many conservatives hope, that the doctrine favored by these judicial candidates is originalism, the stated constitutional theory of Scalia. Originalists don't like interpreting the Constitution in light of present-day social developments and are generally skeptical of constitutional rights -- like the right to have an abortion -- that don't appear explicitly in the text of the Constitution. At least in theory, those in the originalist camp champion judicial restraint and states' rights.
 But as Thomas's presence on the court suggests, it is perhaps just as likely that the next justice -- or chief justice -- will be sympathetic to the less well-known but increasingly active conservative judicial movement that Epstein represents. It is sometimes known as the Constitution in Exile movement, after a phrase introduced in 1995 by Douglas Ginsburg, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. (Ginsburg is probably best known as the Supreme Court nominee, put forward by Ronald Reagan, who withdrew after confessing to having smoked marijuana.) By ''Constitution in Exile,'' Ginsburg meant to identify legal doctrines that established firm limitations on state and federal power before the New Deal. Unlike many originalists, most adherents of the Constitution in Exile movement are not especially concerned about states' rights or judicial deference to legislatures; instead, they encourage judges to strike down laws on behalf of rights that don't appear explicitly in the Constitution. In addition to the scholars who articulate the movement's ideals and the judges who sympathize with them, the Constitution in Exile is defended by a litigation arm, consisting of dozens of self-styled ''freedom-based'' public-interest law firms that bring cases in state and federal courts, including the Supreme Court.
 Critics of the movement note, with some anxiety, that it has no shortage of targets. Cass Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago (and a longtime colleague of Epstein's), will soon publish a book on the Constitution in Exile movement called ''Fundamentally Wrong.'' As Sunstein, who describes himself as a moderate, recently explained to me, success, as the movement defines it, would mean that ''many decisions of the Federal Communications Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and possibly the National Labor Relations Board would be unconstitutional. It would mean that the Social Security Act would not only be under political but also constitutional stress. Many of the Constitution in Exile people think there can't be independent regulatory commissions, so the Security and Exchange Commission and maybe even the Federal Reserve would be in trouble. Some applications of the Endangered Species Act and Clean Water Act would be struck down as beyond Congress's commerce power.'' In what Sunstein described as the ''extreme nightmare scenario,'' the right of individuals to freedom of contract would be so vigorously interpreted that minimum-wage and maximum-hour laws would also be jeopardized.
 Any movement with such ambitious goals must be patient and take the long view about its prospects for success. Michael Greve, an active defender of the Constitution in Exile at Washington's conservative American Enterprise Institute, argues that to achieve its goals, the movement ultimately needs not just one or two but four more Supreme Court justices sympathetic to its cause, as well as a larger transformation in the overall political and legal culture. ''I think what is really needed here is a fundamental intellectual assault on the entire New Deal edifice,'' he says. ''We want to withdraw judicial support for the entire modern welfare state. I'd retire and play golf if I could get there.''

II. Glory Days
All restoration fantasies have a golden age, a lost world that is based, at least to a degree, in historical fact. For the Constitution in Exile movement, that world is the era of Republican dominance in the United States from 1896 through the Roaring Twenties. Even as the Progressive movement gathered steam, seeking to protect workers from what it saw as the ravages of an unregulated market, American courts during that period steadfastly preserved an ideal of free enterprise, routinely striking down laws that were said to restrict economic competition.
 The most famous constitutional battle of the time was the 1905 Supreme Court case Lochner v. New York, which challenged a law that was passed by the New York State Legislature, establishing a maximum number of working hours for bakers. The court struck down the law on the grounds that it violated the bakers' freedom of contract, which was arguably, but not explicitly, included in the 14th Amendment's protections of ''liberty'' and ''property.'' In a dissenting opinion, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. objected that ''The Fourteenth Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics,'' referring to the celebrated Social Darwinist and advocate of laissez-faire economics.
 Even after the election of Roosevelt in 1932, the Supreme Court continued to invoke laissez-faire economics to strike down federal laws, including signature New Deal legislation like the National Industrial Recovery Act. In February 1937, Roosevelt threatened to pack the court with justices who would presumably be more deferential to national regulation of the economy. Within a month, the court backed down, upholding a state law imposing a minimum wage for women and minors. (The majority opinion noted that ''the unparalleled demands for relief which arose during the recent period of depression'' had dislodged old laissez-faire nostrums about the equal bargaining power of workers and employers.) The following year, in the Carolene Products case, the court announced that it would uphold all economic regulations unless no reasonable person could believe them to be rational. Today, the conventional wisdom among liberal and conservative legal thinkers alike is that Lochner was decided incorrectly and that the court's embrace of judicial restraint on economic matters in 1937 was a triumph for democracy.
 Members of the Constitution in Exile movement do not share this view. Not long ago, I visited Greve in his office on 17th Street in Washington. Greve, a witty and sardonic libertarian, is the American Enterprise Institute's John G. Searle Scholar (his benefactor was a pharmaceutical magnate), and over the course of a long conversation, he explained that 1937 was, in his opinion, an unmitigated disaster, resulting in the judicial abandonment of constitutional limits on government power that are inherent in the nature of a free society and the creation of a regulatory behemoth. As the administrative state ballooned during the 60's and 70's, judicial deference became even more pervasive: new independent regulatory agencies, from the Environmental Protection Agency to the Federal Communications Commission, began issuing a slew of regulations. To Greve's dismay, much of the regulatory state is politically quite popular; even a Republican Congress, he acknowledged, seems unlikely to roll back most post-New Deal programs and regulations. ''Judicial activism will have to be deployed,'' he said. ''It's plain that the idea of judicial deference was a dead end for conservatives from the get-go.''
 Now 48, Greve was born in Germany and came to embrace a libertarian outlook during his undergraduate years at the University of Hamburg, from which he graduated in 1981. That year, he visited the United States on a Fulbright and ended up at Cornell for a doctorate in government. (''I consider myself a refugee from the welfare state,'' he said with a chuckle.) His Ph.D. contrasted liberal environmental litigation in Germany and the United States. Greve was frustrated but also impressed by the way that well-financed liberal groups like Ralph Nader's Public Citizen worked in the courts to expand the reach of environmental laws, and he decided that the conservative movement needed to create organizations that would do exactly the opposite.
 One of Greve's goals at the American Enterprise Institute is to convince more mainstream conservatives that traditional federalism -- which is skeptical of federal, but not state, power -- is only half right. In his view, states can threaten economic liberty just as significantly as the federal government. He is still exercised by the lawsuit brought in the 90's by 46 states against the tobacco companies, which resulted in a $246 billion settlement. ''Taking the tobacco settlement down would have a huge public impact -- that would push you in the right direction,'' he said, taking a long drag on a cigarette.
 Although Greve's liberal critics have argued that resurrecting strict constitutional limits on federal and state powers would essentially mean a return to the unregulated climate of the Gilded Age, Greve emphasized that he doesn't have the Gilded Age in mind. The ''modern, vibrant, mobile'' and global economy of the 21st century, he argued, is competitive enough to regulate itself in most areas. Though he envisions a role for government in protecting against egregious forms of coercion, force and fraud, all other abuses would be regulated by private agreements among citizens. ''I don't think much would be lost if we overturned federal wetlands regulations or if we repealed the Endangered Species Act, just by way of illustration,'' he said.
 Greve expressed cautious optimism that his views will get a sympathetic hearing from some of the federal appellate judges renominated this year by the president. He said he is especially happy that Bush has tapped William Pryor, the former attorney general of Alabama. Greve noted that in one of the big Supreme Court cases involving the limits of federal power, which ultimately invalidated parts of the Violence Against Women Act, Pryor wrote a brief that Greve and other libertarians greatly admired. ''Bill Pryor is the key to this puzzle; there's nobody like him,'' Greve said. ''I think he's sensational. He gets almost all of it.''

III. The Network
The idea of creating a network of activist conservative litigation groups was proposed in the early 70's by Lewis Powell, a corporate lawyer and future Supreme Court justice. In the years following the defeat of the Goldwater Republicans in 1964, conservatives were casting about for a new political strategy. At the same time, business interests were alarmed by the growth of the regulatory state and, in particular, the marked increase in environmental litigation. In 1971, Powell wrote a landmark memo for the United States Chamber of Commerce urging a counterattack. In addition to encouraging conservatives to develop a systematic and long-term effort to spread their ideas in the media, Powell recommended that conservatives should get over their aversion to judicial activism. ''Especially with an activist-minded Supreme Court,'' he wrote, ''the Judiciary may be the most important instrument for social, economic and political change.''
 At the time, Powell's idea was being echoed in California by a group of conservatives close to Ronald Reagan, who had recently been re-elected governor. Reagan, who pledged to reform welfare in his 1970 campaign, set up a task force to do so, headed by his chief of staff, Edwin Meese III. The resulting reforms, which restricted welfare eligibility and cut the state's welfare rolls by more than 250,000 in three years, were attacked in the courts by liberal groups. Reagan's supporters were infuriated that there were no conservative groups that could respond in kind. ''The liberals were using the courts,'' Meese recalled recently during a conversation in his office at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. ''We wanted to make it a fair fight.''
 According to a history of conservative legal activism published by Heritage, ''Bringing Justice to the People,'' the first person to take up Powell's challenge, in the early 1970's, was John Simon Fluor, a wealthy Reagan supporter. Fluor was upset that environmental groups had managed to delay the construction of the Alaska pipeline and the initiation of offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. After conversations with fellow Reagan supporters, including Meese, Fluor provided the seed money for the Pacific Legal Foundation, the first conservative property-rights litigation shop in the nation. It was staffed with members of the Reagan welfare-reform team and incorporated in 1973.
 Other conservative business interests quickly replicated Fluor's model. In 1975, money from the major oil companies helped to create the National Legal Center for the Public Interest, an umbrella organization for several regional litigation groups. Each group's focus was determined by its location. The most influential spinoff group to emerge was the Mountain States Legal Foundation, financed by the beer magnate Joseph Coors, which was set up in 1977 to challenge federal land-use and natural-resources regulations, long a source of political resistance in the West. (The foundation's distinguished alumni of the period include Gale Norton, now secretary of the interior, and Jon Kyl, now a senator from Arizona.)
 Though these conservative groups clearly served the interests of local businesses, they also attracted a number of libertarians, many of whom were not always consistent supporters of big business. One of the more thoughtful of these is Chip Mellor, who joined the Mountain States Legal Foundation in the late 70's and is now the head of the Institute for Justice, a libertarian public-interest law firm in Washington. When I visited him recently at his office near the White House (with an impressive corner view of the Old Executive Office Building), he spoke engagingly of his youthful idealism. ''I came out of the protests of the 1960's,'' he recalled, ''where I was dissatisfied with the right and the left.'' He immersed himself in the writings of Milton Friedman, the Nobel Prize-winning free-market economist, as well as those of the libertarian novelist Ayn Rand. ''It was quite illuminating for me to read Friedman and Rand and to realize that you could not divorce economic liberty and private property rights from the truly free individual,'' Mellor said. ''I came to see that societies where those rights were taken away inevitably led to people impoverished in monetary wealth and basic liberties.''
 When he was a law student at the University of Denver, Mellor saw a recruiting flier for the Mountain States Legal Foundation and was intrigued by its mention of property rights. Sporting long hair and a handlebar mustache, he showed up without an appointment, but hit it off nevertheless with the foundation's president, James Watt. (Watt would later achieve renown for his knockdown battles with environmentalists as Reagan's secretary of the interior.) By 1982, Mellor had risen to become the acting president of the foundation, and he soon hired a young law-school graduate and fellow libertarian named Clint Bolick. The two became fast friends and pledged to sustain their passion for libertarian principles above partisan politics. (A fierce defender of Clarence Thomas during his nomination battle, Bolick left the Republican Party not long ago in protest over its anti-immigrant policies and the Iraq war.)
 Bolick, whose sunny idealism is hard to resist, still gets indignant when he recalls how Mellor came to part ways with Mountain States. It began when the foundation filed a free-speech lawsuit opposing an exclusive cable-TV franchise granted by the city of Denver to a local businessman who happened to be a friend of Joseph Coors. When Coors resigned from the board to protest the direction that Mountain States seemed to moving in, it set in motion a process that led, a year later, to Mellor being fired. ''Chip and I discovered that there is a world of difference between an organization that is pro-business and an organization that is pro-free enterprise,'' Bolick told me recently. ''We learned that some of the influential backers of the movement were more pro-business than pro-free enterprise.'' After the firing, Mellor said, he and Bolick sat in Mellor's backyard with tears in their eyes. ''We pledged this is wrong, and someday we're going to do it right,'' he said.
 They soon got their chance. After stints in Washington with the Reagan administration, in which Mellor was a deputy general counsel at the Department of Energy and Bolick was an assistant at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (then led by Clarence Thomas), the two men, in 1991, persuaded Charles Koch, an oil and gas magnate, to give them $350,000 a year in seed money from his private foundation to start the Institute for Justice. (To this day, the institute does not actively solicit corporate financing, and its $6.6 million annual budget is far lower than those of its liberal counterparts, like the A.C.L.U.) Before long, Mellor and Bolick had achieved victories in lower courts for clients without deep pockets. In a series of cases, they challenged state licensing laws that made it hard for small-business entrepreneurs to break into highly regulated professions. Their successful clients included limo drivers in Las Vegas, African-American hair braiders in San Diego and casket sellers in Tennessee. When Mellor gave me a tour of his office, he proudly pointed out an engraved tombstone of appreciation from the casket sellers, which sits in the institute's reception area.

IV. The (Other) Rights of Man
Defending the right of small businessmen to challenge local monopolies may have been necessary and noble, but for the movement it represented a small piece of the puzzle. If Mellor and Bolick and others like them were to transform the Supreme Court's approach to the entire post-New Deal regulatory state -- to ''resurrect the Constitution in Exile,'' as Bolick puts it -- they would have to develop a sophisticated jurisprudential framework.
 Early on, the movement found its intellectual guru in Richard Epstein. In the words of Michael Greve, Epstein is ''the intellectual patron saint of everybody in this movement.'' Like Bolick, Epstein is too much of a libertarian purist to be a party loyalist. (''Our president is a most inconsistent classical liberal, to be charitable,'' he says. ''He's terrible on trade and a huge spender and not completely candid about the parlous situation Social Security is in.'') But his devotion to -- and influence on -- the Constitution in Exile is unsurpassed.
 ''Takings: Private Property and the Power of Eminent Domain,'' still in print 20 years after its publication, purports to specify the conditions under which government can rightfully impose regulations and taxes that reduce the value of private property. Drawing on the political philosophy of John Locke, Epstein argues that before the existence of government, individuals in what political theorists call the ''state of nature'' have an inherent right of autonomy, which entitles them to acquire property by dint of their labor and to dispose of it only as they see fit through voluntary transfer of goods. Epstein also maintains that any form of government coercion -- including taxation or other forced transfers of wealth -- can be reconciled with the principles of personal freedom only if it makes individuals at least as well off as they were before the tax or regulation was imposed. Epstein's key insight, as the Constitution in Exile adherents see it, is that economic regulations are just as coercive as other involuntary wealth transfers. He insists that if the government wants to reduce the value of an individual's property -- with zoning restrictions, for example -- it has to compensate him for the lost value.
 Moving from political theory to constitutional law, Epstein argues that the framers of the United States Constitution recognized these limitations on governmental power in the Takings Clause of the Constitution, which says that ''private property'' cannot be taken for public use ''without just compensation.'' According to Epstein, the Takings Clause prevents the government from redistributing wealth in any form without appropriate compensation and that a proper understanding of the clause calls into question ''many of the heralded reforms and institutions of the 20th century: zoning, rent control, workers' compensation laws, transfer payments,'' as well as ''progressive taxation.'' Liberal governmental reforms could be sustained, Epstein argues, only if the government were to compensate individuals for the lost value of their property or to make everyone better off in exchange for their taxes. ''This simple theory of governance could be expanded to cover all taxes, all regulations, all shift in liability schemes,'' Epstein wrote in an intellectual autobiography. ''It is also the recipe for striking down the New Deal.'' 
 ''Takings'' made Epstein a star on the Republican circuit, and he quickly became a favorite intellectual of Edwin Meese, then Reagan's attorney general. (Perhaps inspired by Epstein's arguments, Meese once announced at a Justice Department conference that a ''revolution'' in economic liberty was a possibility.) In 1986, Meese's office contacted Epstein and asked him to make a scholarly inquiry into Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce. The following year, Epstein published the results of his research in ''The Proper Scope of the Commerce Power'' (the article that Clarence Thomas would apparently later draw on in his Lopez opinion). Epstein argued that before the New Deal, Congress had the power to regulate only the channels of interstate commerce (railroads, for example) but not manufacturing, which doesn't qualify as commerce, or the trade of goods that don't cross state lines. The court, he maintained, was wrong, in its landmark 1942 ruling in Wickard v. Filburn, to allow the federal government to regulate the wheat production of a farmer who grew it for his own consumption. (The government had argued that private consumption was reducing demand for wheat that traveled across state lines.) Though he dutifully noted that his conclusion ''seems radical,'' Epstein called on the court to reverse its error by returning to the more limited pre-New Deal understanding of Congress's power to regulate the economy.
 From the outset, Epstein's ideas ran into resistance from traditional judicial conservatives. In October 1984, Epstein clashed publicly with Antonin Scalia, his former colleague at the University of Chicago, in a panel discussion convened at the libertarian Cato Institute. Scalia, speaking first before a standing-room-only crowd, defended the view that judges should restrain themselves from overturning legislation in the name of rights or liberties not clearly and expressly enumerated in the Constitution. ''Every era raises its own peculiar threat to constitutional democracy,'' he said. ''The reversal of a half-century of judicial restraint in the economic realm'' -- Epstein's stated project -- ''comes within that category.'' As a traditional federalist, Scalia had his own qualms about the unconstitutionality of unlimited federal power, but he was not in favor of striking down laws in the name of ambiguous and contestable economic rights. Scalia argued that conservatives who had criticized earlier courts, like the Warren court, for liberal judicial activism now faced a ''moment of truth.'' They had to show the courage to reject conservative judicial activism as well.
 When Epstein heard what Scalia had to say, he threw away his prepared remarks and delivered a spontaneous attack. Freely admitting that he was questioning the conservative ''conventional wisdom,'' Epstein insisted that judges should be much more aggressive in protecting economic liberty. ''There are many blatantly inappropriate statutes that cry out for a quick and easy kill,'' Epstein said, citing minimum-wage laws and other ''legislative regulation of the economy.'' He excoriated the Supreme Court for refusing to strike these laws down. ''One only has to read the opinions of the Supreme Court on economic liberties and property rights to realize that these opinions are intellectually incoherent,'' he concluded. ''Some movement in the direction of judicial activism is clearly indicated.''

V. Permanent Exile?
By 1995, the Constitution in Exile movement had reached what appeared to be a turning point. The Republicans had recently taken over both houses of Congress after pledging, in their Contract With America, to rein in the federal government. And the Supreme Court, by rediscovering limits on Congress's power in Lopez, seemed to be answering the call. For conservative advocacy groups and public-interest law firms, the possibilities for litigation looked encouraging.
 In a reflection of the new mood, Douglas Ginsburg wrote an article in Regulation, a libertarian magazine published by the Cato Institute, calling for the resurrection of ''the Constitution in Exile.'' He noted that for 60 years, proper constitutional limits on government power had been abandoned. ''The memory of these ancient exiles, banished for standing in opposition to unlimited government,'' he wrote with a hint of wistful grandiosity, ''is kept alive by a few scholars who labor on in the hope of a restoration, a second coming of the Constitution of liberty -- even if perhaps not in their own lifetimes.'' While not all the leaders of the movement immediately embraced Ginsburg's catch phrase (Edwin Meese says that the phrase Constitution in Exile suggests incorrectly that they have retired from the field of battle), among some legal conservatives it became a rallying cry.
 The restoration did not occur. The Rehnquist court in recent years has proved more sympathetic to enforcing limits on Congress's power than any court since 1937: between 1995 and 2003, the court struck down 33 federal laws on constitutional grounds -- a higher annual rate than any other Supreme Court in history. But the so-called federalism revolution on the Rehnquist court did not deliver all of what the proponents of the Constitution in Exile had hoped. Every time a lower court appeared to be on the brink of successfully striking down a federal statute with substantial political support, like the Endangered Species Act, the Supreme Court wrote a hedging opinion reassuring the country that the justices intended to challenge Congressional power only at the margins. 
 ''I think we failed,'' Michael Greve said flatly when I asked him about the past decade of Supreme Court litigation. ''There are encouraging signs that with the right strategic moves you can make some headway, until the court looks the principle in the eye and says, 'Oh, my God,' and pulls back.'' He rattled off a series of property-rights cases in which the Supreme Court had declared (in his mocking paraphrase), ''Oh, no, this would be too inconvenient, too constraining for government.''
 During the current term, the Supreme Court has heard three cases involving questions of economic liberty that, according to Greve, represent the most significant tests in a decade of the power of the Constitution in Exile movement. Kelo v. New London, which was argued before the court in February, concerned Susette Kelo, a woman who sued the city of New London, Conn., after it used its power of eminent domain to seize 90 acres of property, including her house. The city planned to turn the parcel over to a private developer in order to increase the tax base and revitalize the city. Chip Mellor's organization, the Institute for Justice, represented Kelo, whom the institute's lawyers had sought out because she seemed like a sympathetic victim. Standing before the justices, Kelo's lawyer, Scott G. Bullock, asked the court to reject the claim that as long as the state could point to a plausible public purpose for the taking of private property (like increasing the tax base), it could appropriate people's homes. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, however, seemed unimpressed by the suggestion that courts should second-guess the economic judgments of legislatures.
 O'Connor and other justices seemed similarly skeptical during the second case, Lingle v. Chevron, U.S.A., which they heard later that same morning. Lingle involved a challenge to a rent-control regulation in Hawaii. Richard Epstein filed a brief for the Cato Institute that argued that the court should abandon its longstanding presumption that economic regulations are rational and ask instead whether the law, in fact, makes economic sense or is simply a ''naked wealth transfer.''
 Randy Barnett, a libertarian scholar at the Boston University School of Law and the Cato Institute, was the plaintiff's lawyer in Ashcroft v. Raich, another key Supreme Court showdown, which was argued before the court last fall. Raich is a challenge to the federal government's attempt to enforce drug laws that conflict with the effort by California (and 10 other states) to allow the use of medical marijuana. Barnett represented Angela Raich, a woman who suffered from cancer that often confined her to a wheelchair but who said she felt much better after being prescribed medical marijuana. The author of a provocative book, ''Restoring the Lost Constitution,'' Barnett argues that courts should evaluate economic regulations with a ''presumption of liberty'' rather than with a presumption of deference. His book identifies a series of regulations that he says the courts should consider constitutionally suspect, from environmental laws to laws forbidding the mere possession of ordinary firearms, therapeutic drugs or pornography. ''The court has not really limited Congress's power very much,'' Barnett says. ''But the fact that it was willing to limit it at all has been an important principle. If it now basically throws in the towel, it will be pretty demoralizing to this whole side.''
 In February, a day after the Kelo and Lingle cases were argued before the court, I phoned Epstein and asked him how he thought they had gone. ''I think the exile's going to be a little longer after yesterday,'' he said with a sigh. ''It's a very sad day to watch these guys work.'' Epstein expressed confidence that even if his side loses, the battle for the Constitution in Exile will continue at the state level -- ''the emotional grab of those eminent-domain cases is so strong,'' he said -- but confessed that he had little hope, for now, in the Supreme Court. ''They really have gone back to the extreme 1937 reaction that anything that concerns the economic well-being of this nation is simply a political matter,'' he said. ''If the Constitution is an annoying obstacle, they'll just get it out of their way.'' 

VI. Packing the Courts
If supporters of the Constitution in Exile lose all three cases now before the Supreme Court, what happens next? The general consensus, according to Greve, is that the movement should focus its energies on the appointment of sympathetic judges. ''I think the judicial appointments are what matters most of all,'' Greve says. ''And Bush's renomination of the rejected judges is a way of saying, Let's cram the same judges back in their face. That's intended as a sign that they mean business.''
 Three candidates recently renominated by Bush for positions on the federal appellate courts are sympathetic to the ideas of the Constitution in Exile movement. In addition to William Pryor, the former attorney general of Alabama whom Greve praises, there is Janice Rogers Brown, a justice on the California Supreme Court and an outspoken economic libertarian. An African-American and a daughter of sharecroppers, Brown has been promoted by many libertarians as an ideal Supreme Court candidate. Known for her vigorous criticism of the post-New Deal regulatory state, Brown has called 1937, the year the Supreme Court began to uphold the New Deal, ''the triumph of our socialist revolution,'' adding in another speech that ''protection of property was a major casualty of the revolution of 1937.'' She has praised the court's invalidation of maximum-hour and minimum-wage laws in the Progressive era, and at her Senate confirmation hearing in 2003, she referred disparagingly to ''the dichotomy that eventually develops where economic liberty -- property -- is put on a different level than political liberties.''
 From Greve's point of view, another sympathizer whom Bush has nominated for a federal appellate judgeship is William G. Myers III, who was the chief lawyer at the Department of the Interior and a lifelong advocate for mining and grazing interests. Democrats in the Senate have expressed special concern about Myers's narrow view of Congress's power to pass environmental regulations: he has criticized the ''fallacious belief that the centralized government can promote environmentalism'' and has denounced the Endangered Species Act and Clean Water Act as ''regulatory excesses.'' He also helped to found Cattlemen Advocating Through Litigation, a conservative group that challenges environmental regulations in court. On March 17, he was the first candidate approved by the Judiciary Committee, on a party line vote.
 For Democrats in the Senate, a main cause of concern is not only the principles that these judges embrace but also the potential conflicts of interests that their loyalties can create. For example, Douglas Ginsburg, the judge who introduced the phrase Constitution in Exile, serves on the board of a group called the Foundation for Research on Economics and the Environment, or FREE, which favors free-market solutions to environmental problems. As Douglas Kendall of the Community Rights Counsel, an environmental watchdog group, has reported, between 1992 and 2001 Ginsburg took more than a dozen all-expenses-paid trips, mainly to Montana, under FREE's auspices, where he often participated in its judicial-education seminars. In 1999, a constitutional challenge to emission regulations in the Clean Air Act was accepted for argument before Ginsburg. The lawyer who was challenging the regulations on behalf of several industry groups, Edward Warren, had also served on the board of FREE. Ginsburg joined an opinion accepting Warren's argument that the emission regulations were unconstitutional. A dissenting opinion charged the majority with ignoring ''the last half century of Supreme Court jurisprudence,'' and the Supreme Court unanimously reversed the decision two years later in an acerbic opinion written by Scalia.
 The battle over the ideologies and allegiances of appellate judges is, of course, something of a dress rehearsal for the Supreme Court nomination to come. Greve and his colleague Christopher DeMuth, the president of the American Enterprise Institute, say they are heartened by the judges reportedly on Bush's short list, many of whom they consider broadly sympathetic to their views. ''I think the president and his top staff have shown really good taste in their court of appeals nominations,'' DeMuth told me during a visit to the institute, ''and when the Supreme Court opening comes up, they will be very strongly inclined to nominate people from our side.''
 DeMuth was especially enthusiastic about the possible candidacy of Michael W. McConnell, a federal appellate judge in Denver and a former University of Chicago law professor who worked with DeMuth at the Office of Management and Budget in the Reagan administration. Greve explained that McConnell not only has ''impeccable social conservative credentials'' but also will ''give you a vision of federalism that looks like the Constitution we once had, and he's intellectually powerful enough to pull it off on the court.'' Most of the other names on Bush's short list have similar qualities: J. Michael Luttig, a federal appellate judge in Virginia, is a vigorous proponent of the view that some federal environmental laws exceed Congress's powers to regulate interstate commerce; John Roberts, a federal judge in Washington, has also questioned whether some applications of the Endangered Species Act exceed Congress's regulatory powers.
 The influence of the Constitution in Exile movement on judicial nominations is not always clear, since the concerns of the White House often overlap with concerns of conservatives broadly sympathetic to business interests or the concerns of more traditional federalists. ''If you mentioned the phrase 'Constitution in Exile' in White House meetings I was in, no one would know what the hell you were talking about,'' a former White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the topic, told me. ''But a lot of people believe in the principles of the movement without knowing the phrase. And the nominees will reflect that.'' According to the former official, during Bush's first term, David S. Addington, the vice president's counsel, would often press the Justice Department to object that proposed laws and regulations exceeded the limits of Congress's power. ''People like Addington hate the federal government, hate Congress,'' the former official said. ''They're in a deregulatory mood,'' he added, and they believe that ''the second term is the time to really do this stuff.''

VII. America, Deregulated
If they win -- if, years from now, the Constitution is brought back from its decades of arguable exile -- and federal environmental laws are struck down, the movement's loyalists do not expect the levels of air and water pollution to rise catastrophically. They are confident that local regulations and private contracts between businesses and neighbors will determine the pollution levels that each region demands. Nor do they expect vulnerable workers to be exploited in sweatshops if labor unions are weakened: they anticipate that entrepreneurial workers in a mobile economy will bargain for the working conditions that their talents deserve. Historic districts, as they see it, will not be eviscerated if zoning laws are scaled back, but they do imagine there will be fewer brownstones and more McMansions. In exchange for these trade-offs, they insist, individual liberty -- the indispensable guarantee of self-fulfillment and happiness -- would flourish far more extensively than it does today.
 Of course, there would be losers as well as winners in a deregulated market economy, and history provides plenty of reasons to be concerned about the possibility of abuse. Even the relatively modest deregulation of today's increasingly global and fluid U.S. economy may provide something of a cautionary tale. From Enron to illegal trading by mutual funds and bid-rigging in the insurance industry, corporate scandals are keeping consumer advocates like Eliot Spitzer quite busy. America, at the moment, is engaged in an important debate about the relative merits and dangers of the market economy, and the advocates of the Constitution in Exile are aware that they cannot achieve ultimate success without persuading a majority of the American people to embrace their vision.
 But a political transformation in their favor remains, for the moment, remote, and they appear content, even eager, to turn to the courts to win the victories that are eluding them in the political arena. Advocates of the movement are entirely sincere in their belief that the regulatory state is unconstitutional as well as immoral and that a principled reading of the Constitution requires vigorous enforcement of fundamental limits on state power. Nevertheless, it is a troubling paradox that conservatives, who continue to denounce liberals for using courts to thwart the will of the people in cases involving abortion and gay marriage, now appear to be succumbing to precisely the same temptation. If the lessons of the past 60 years teach us anything, when judges try to short-circuit intensely contested democratic debates, from the New Deal cases to Roe v. Wade, they may provoke a fierce political backlash that sets back the movement they are trying to advance. In this sense, even if the Constitution in Exile movement manages to transform the courts before it has transformed the country, it may find that it has won less than it hoped. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chip Mellor, Institute for Justice
Michael Greve, American Enterprise Institute
 Richard Epstein, University of Chicago (Photographs by Bruce Gilden/Magnum, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); PROPERTY LAW (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PHILOSOPHY (75%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ZONING (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (92%); JOE BIDEN (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



365 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pressure on Bush; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: How Hard Will He Push?

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush's meeting this last week with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon ended the way such sessions always seem to, with proclamations of harmony and good feeling. But a question lingered: how much would Mr. Bush lean on Israel in the coming months to maintain the momentum toward a peace agreement with the Palestinians after the withdrawal of Israeli forces and settlers from Gaza this summer?
 While playing host to Mr. Sharon in Crawford, Tex., Mr. Bush gave unequivocal backing for the Gaza move. But he also repeated his desire that Israel halt expansion of settlements in key areas of the West Bank and Jerusalem suburbs, and reiterated his support for negotiating the establishment of a contiguous Palestinian state. Mr. Sharon and the president essentially agreed to disagree on settlement expansion but the prime minister signaled that he would not do anything to provoke a confrontation now. The ambiguous statements in Crawford guaranteed that Arab nations, Europeans and especially Palestinians would continue to press Mr. Bush to press Israel on a full range of issues.
 From instinct President Bush has always been reluctant to pressure Mr. Sharon. This is particularly true on the eve of his planned withdrawal of security forces and nearly 9,000 settlers from Gaza and a quarter of the West Bank. 
 And for a president famously determined to avoid the mistakes of his father, Mr. Bush need only remember what happened to President George H.W. Bush in the early 1990's when he tried to punish Israel for its policy on settlements -- and suffered politically at home.
 As if the sensitivity of the situation were not obvious enough, Mr. Sharon told Mr. Bush during his visit that he needs maximum support to avoid a ''civil war'' among Israelis enflamed by the spectacle of families, many of them deeply religious, being dragged from their Gaza homes this summer. 
 That may have been something of an overstatement, although few doubt that the Gaza withdrawal could become traumatic for Israelis if it grows chaotic. But it highlighted the fact that there is more pressure than ever for Washington to pressure Israel.
 It is widely believed that the death of Yasir Arafat last year and the election of Mahmoud Abbas as his successor as Palestinian president, have presented a once-in-a-generation opportunity for a Middle East peace. And if Mr. Bush is to make good on his promise to bring freedom and democracy to the entire region -- and thus further justify his invasion of Iraq -- he cannot afford to lose momentum in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
 But to make the Gaza pullout work, Palestinians argue, Mr. Bush needs to convince Mr. Sharon to guarantee better access into and out of Gaza. To make the Palestinians believe that the Gaza pullout is the beginning of a process, and not the end, he has to get Israel, in this view, to ease checkpoints and roadblocks lacing the West Bank and to freeze plans for the expansion of settlement blocs, especially those in the suburbs of Jerusalem.
 Of course, even if Mr. Bush wanted to push the Israelis harder, it is not clear what leverage he might have.
 His father had the one-time weapon of loan guarantees that Israel badly needed to pay for housing for Soviet refugees. This time, any attempt to apply economic pressure, like witholding housing assistance, would threaten to blow up American-Israeli relations, causing the downfall of Mr. Sharon's government.
 That leaves verbal pressure, some of which Mr. Bush employed in Crawford last week, when he restated his opposition to the settlement blocs. Mr. Sharon's team had wanted authorization for settlement expansion in those areas, especially in the suburbs of Jerusalem. Those areas. Mr. Bush had said -- implicitly, at least -- in a letter a year ago to the Israeli leader, would eventually end up in Israeli hands.
 Instead, Mr. Bush reiterated American opposition to any kind of settlement expansion while delicate discussions are under way to arrange the Gaza withdrawal. ''We welcome this position,'' Jibril Rajoub, a top Palestinian national security official, said after the Bush-Sharon meeting.
 Despite these words, the White House priority is Gaza, and not leaning on Israel over settlements or other so-called final-status issues. Mr. Sharon gave some comfort on that score. While he was stating publicly that Israel intends to expand settlements in three blocs that it considers certain to be awarded to Israel in any final accord with the Palestinians -- a signal that Israelis said he needed to send home to restive constituents -- his aides were also saying sotto voce that as a practical matter actual construction will not proceed for years.
 ''The big issue for us is Gaza, and making sure that the Palestinians are ready,'' said a senior administration official, who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issue. ''The question of whether there should be settlement building in one place or another three years down the road is not something we should be focusing on in April.'' 
 President Abbas wants to coordinate the withdrawal with Israel, but his prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, and many other Palestinians do not want to do anything to legitimize the Israeli occupation. 
 Palestinians say further that Mr. Bush needs to understand that the Gaza withdrawal cannot accelerate negotiations to create a Palestinian state if Israeli actions continue to stir cynicism in Palestinian circles. In fact, the withdrawal is seen by them as a kind of strategic retreat by Israel that might make it less flexible, not more, in eventually negotiating such tough issues as final boundaries and territory.
 If the Gaza withdrawal occurs with little mishap, roughly half the Palestinians now under Israeli occupation will be in control of their own affairs, Israelis note.
 Some Israelis warn that how the Palestinian conduct themselves, whether they rein in violence by militant groups against Israel, will determine whether or how quickly Israel is prepared to withdraw further or take more steps to address the living and transportation conditions of Palestinians still living in Israeli-controlled territory. 
 Whatever happens, however, the United States is certain to come under another round of pressure to keep make sure that a Gaza withdrawal leads to a resumption of talks to create a contiguous Palestinian state, as called for in the ''road map'' peace plan. 
 The Israelis say that further steps will have to be contingent on Mr. Abbas disarming militant groups and dismantling the ''terrorist infrastructure,'' the same prerequisites that have impeded productive negotiations so far.
 Already Israeli officials are saying the Palestinians are lagging in this. Palestinians counter that they are paying off as many known militants as they can to retire or lay down their guns.
 ''If the Palestinian authority -- either by co-optation, bribery or retirement or just Hamas's own calculation -- can manage to make this current quiet period last, and if the administration is well positioned to say that the Palestinians really are making a serious effort, then the administration will be emboldened to confront Israel later this year,'' said Aaron David Miller, a veteran Middle East negotiator in several administrations.
 The open question, according to Mr. Miller, is whether Gaza evolves into the dream of a broad Palestinian state as envisioned by some Israeli and Palestinian idealists or a pragmatic first step that buys time and leaves a bigger solution for the next generation of leaders. Come September, if Gaza goes well, Mr. Bush will have to confront that question as well.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sweet Talk -- Mr. Sharon and Mr. Bush agreed to disagree on the hard issues in Crawford. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



366 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Diplomatic Memo; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: A Diplomatic Lone Ranger With 3 x 5 Cards

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: ROMBEK, Sudan, April 15 

 BODY:
When Robert B. Zoellick arrived here Friday morning, awaiting him was a 50-man color guard of a rebel army standing at attention and a 20-man military band in bright red uniforms.
 As the band played a martial tune, slightly off key, a functionary motioned Mr. Zoellick into a chalk box etched in the dirt, and Mr. Zoellick obediently stepped in. While the unit presented arms, he stood at attention, file cards covered with meticulous handwritten notes sticking out of his shirt pocket. A moment later, with a slight smile on his face, he dutifully inspected the troops, a unit of the Sudanese People's Liberation Army. 
 The moment seemed to crystallize Robert Zoellick's transition from what he calls his ''accountancy past'' to his present post, deputy secretary of state, the nation's second-ranking diplomat.
 Mr. Zoellick does not see it as a stretch. He was United States trade representative before, and in that job he negotiated difficult trade agreements. As a result, he likes to say, for the past four years he has worked as a diplomat. 
 Trade negotiations are often cold discussion of dollars and quotas. By contrast, Mr. Zoellick plunged this week into two of the world's most wrenching human dramas: Iraq and Sudan. Even then, however, Mr. Zoellick found that he was, as he put it in an interview, ''able to integrate economic thinking.''
 In Oslo on Monday, he attended a donors' conference for Sudan, where all the discussion was about monetary pledges.
 In Iraq on Wednesday, he strapped on a bulletproof vest and traveled to Falluja in an armored vehicle, where the new city council promptly asked him for money.
 In the Darfur region of Sudan on Friday, in the middle of a refugee camp holding as many as 100,000 people who were driven from their homes, aid workers said they were short on money to pay for food and security forces. 
 And here in Rombek, John Garang, the charismatic leader of the rebel army that concluded a peace agreement with the central government in January, brazenly asked Mr. Zoellick for $30 million. Mr. Zoellick smiled as he quipped, ''I don't carry that much on me.'' 
 Without apology, Mr. Zoellick says, ''I look for a comparative advantage'' in his diplomatic work. His economic background, for example -- earlier in his career, he worked at Fannie Mae and the Treasury Department as well as the State Department -- gives him an area of advantage many other officials do not have. On the other side of the ledger, he says, ''I am not the expert on training the new Iraqi Army.'' 
 In any case, he seems solidly sure of himself and his place in the government, so much so that unlike others of his rank he makes little effort to remain ''on message.'' As an example, he seldom if ever takes the opportunity to promote President Bush's pro-democracy agenda, as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice seems to do at every turn. And unlike most other senior Bush administration officials, he takes pains to keep the news media informed about what he is doing. 
 No previous deputy secretary has taken a press corps on his plane in recent years. On the flight to Oslo, when he stepped into the press cabin to talk to the traveling reporters, his briefing lasted a full hour. Others like that followed through the week. He also seemed to enjoy explaining his work style. 
 Mr. Zoellick does not seem to trust fully the cables, briefings and diplomatic discussions on which most diplomats base their thinking.
 ''I like to see people face to face,'' he said, even if it means traveling halfway around the world. ''You can read, you can study, but to see people and circumstances, it's a motivator.''
 The donors' conference in Oslo was to raise money for the development of southern Sudan. Mr. Zoellick said he knew the area was impoverished. But it took a driving tour of Rombek on Friday morning to make him fully understand the town's plight. Residents have no electricity, running water or communications with the rest of Sudan. 
 ''That confirmed that we have a large job ahead,'' he said.
 To get ready for meetings here, or in Khartoum or other stops on his journeys, he reads and thinks -- alone, his aides said. Most senior diplomats rely most heavily on briefings from State Department experts. Mr. Zoellick relies largely on his own research. He makes copious handwritten notes, then prepares three-by-five file cards he carries in his shirt pocket.
 On the way home on Friday, he created a three-column, fine-print list of follow-up calls and other actions for next week and seemed pleased to show the list to reporters -- though not in a way that they could read what he had written. 
 Aides seem both admiring and amused by Mr. Zoellick's style. He seems unconcerned.
 As he put it, ''I don't spend a lot of time comparing myself to others.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoellick met with Sudan's vice president, Ali Osman Mohammed Taha, in Khartoum last week. (Photo by Phillip Dhil/European Presssphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); REFUGEES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%); CITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (97%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



367 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 3; Television; CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Movies 

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:

ANGELS IN AMERICA (2003)
Part 1, Monday at 11 p.m. and Thursday at 1 p.m. Part 2, Friday at 1 p.m. Both on HBO2.

There is so much to praise in Tony Kushner's Broadway masterpiece about the age of AIDS, and Mike Nichols's television version is a work of art in itself. Al Pacino (above right) stars as Roy Cohn, the vicious big-time lawyer who takes denial to new heights; Meryl Streep as Ethel Rosenberg, among other people; and Emma Thompson as the angel who visits Prior Walter (Justin Kirk), a gay man whose lover leaves him not long after learning Prior is sick. An actual biblical angel bursting noisily through the ceiling of a Manhattan apartment? As Ethel tells Roy, ''History is about to crack wide open.''

THE BANK DICK (1940)
Monday at 8 p.m. on TCM.

In his best movie, W. C. Fields (left) plays Egbert Souse (that's right, ''accent grave over the E,'' as Egbert likes to tell people), an unemployed drunk who hides from his dreadful wife and their hideous daughters at his favorite bar, the Black Pussy Cat. In the course of this classic comedy, written by Fields and directed by Edward F. Cline, Egbert is hired as a movie director and as a bank detective and taken hostage; he also encourages his future son-in-law (''Og Oggilby. Sounds like a bubble in a bathtub'') to do some embezzling. Egbert is a completely despicable human being, and everything goes his way.

LENNY (1974)
Sunday at 8 p.m. and Thursday at 9:35 p.m. on Flix.

Bob Fosse directed the tour de force that is Dustin Hoffman's performance as Lenny Bruce, the original ''sick comic.'' Mr. Hoffman (right) portrays the rise and fall of Bruce, who challenged pretty much every social taboo of the Eisenhower-Kennedy era, campaigned against censorship, got arrested a lot and eventually let his legal troubles ruin his act. And his life. Of course the heroin and his troubled relationship with his wife, Honey (Valerie Perrine), didn't help.

BENNY & JOON (1993)
Tuesday at 8 p.m., Tuesday/Early Wednesday at 1:30 a.m. and Wednesday at 4 p.m. on WE.

Everyone thinks Benny Pearl (Aidan Quinn) should put his mentally ill sister, Joon (Mary Stuart Masterson, left, with Johnny Depp), in a group home. He can't even keep a housekeeper who will put up with her behavior, which includes occasional arson. But then, in Jeremiah S. Chechik's rich romantic comedy, a stranger comes to town, and he could be the man Joon has been waiting for. Sam (a devastatingly charming Mr. Depp) wears a Buster Keaton hat, irons grilled cheese sandwiches and can make a balloon sing.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by MGM)
(Photo by United Artists)
 (Photos by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (88%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); COMEDY FILMS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); ARSON (60%); HEROIN (50%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%); MERYL STREEP (59%); JOHNNY DEPP (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005



368 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Market Braces for Earnings After Sharp Fall in Stocks
After last week's market plunge -- when America's three main stock gauges fell more than 3 percent -- investors will be looking to the flood of corporate earnings this week that are likely to set the near-term course of a nervous market.
 Whether or not earnings are an antidote, it is clear that the mood of the investors has changed dramatically, They finally seem to believe that high crude oil and gasoline prices are curtailing consumer spending, slowing economic growth and cutting into corporate earnings. [Section A.]

Questioning Eziba's Decisions
When Eziba, an online retailer, declared bankruptcy last year, hundreds of its suppliers were left unpaid. Some of the company's critics are now questioning Eziba's decision to forgo payments. Suppliers from around the world included Rwandan widows, above, who weaved baskets for Eziba last year in Gashoga village. A debt to them was paid by Overstock.com, which bought Eziba's assets. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

Intel Has Chip for Wireless Signals
The Intel Corporation is expected to announce that it has begun selling a computer chip designed to pick up long-range, high-speed wireless Internet signals. The technology, known as WiMax, is seen as both a complement and successor to WiFi transmissions, which send data over shorter distances. [C4.]

Equity Firms Make Bets on Satellite
While many investors remain wary of the fiber optic industry, private equity firms have taken big stakes in satellite operators including PanAmSat, Intelsat and New Skies Satellites Holdings. [C4.]

Cellphones for the Preverbal Set
As mobile television gains ground, a group of entertainment companies is working to turn the cellphone into a high-tech pacifier. The target customers are children who may be incapable of coherent telephone conversation but will cuddle with a portable phone and view entertainment by Sesame Street characters or the Teletubbies. [C10.]

Britain to Examine Rover Finances
The British government has ordered an investigation into the accounts of MG Rover amid contentions that directors stripped money from the failed company. [C6.]

Insurance Chief Set to Urge Change
The chief executive of one of the largest insurance brokerages is expected to open a conference with a call for major changes in how the industry does business. [C2.]

Fox Turns to Fans to Save Show
Fans often conduct grass-roots campaigns to persuade television networks to spare their favorite programs from cancellation. Now a campaign seeks to save ''Arrested Development,'' the Fox comedy, which has low ratings despite winning three Emmy Awards last September. But in this case, the campaign is being run by Fox itself. Above, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Jason Bateman on a recent episode. [C8.]

Marketing Research Back in Style
For years, advertising research was seen as a staid field with little practical relevance. Now, as clients increasingly hold agencies accountable for effective ads, the researchers are in demand. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,087.51 down 373.83Nasdaq composite -- 1,908.15 down 91.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% down 0.23The euro -- $1.2907 down 0.0013The dollar -- 107.76 yen down 0.54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (87%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (86%); INSURANCE (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (71%); MICROPROCESSORS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); MOBILE MEDIA (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (69%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (66%); NETWORK TELEVISION (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); NEW SKIES SATELLITES HOLDINGS LTD (54%); INTELSAT SA (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



369 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Collecting; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Another Roadside Attraction

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
FOR years, I kept an eye out in my travels for a hubcap to go on the left rear wheel of my 1987 Ford Econoline van. None of the seedy roadside hubcap hawkers I drove past seemed to have one. I searched highway medians from time to time, though without much hope of success.
 So imagine my surprise one day, on the way home from the market, to find an exact match, right along the road! I pounded it into place and drove happily on. 
 Then, at some point, I noticed that the right rear hubcap was missing. It was possible that this was just bad luck. It was also possible that I had found my own hubcap, knocked loose by a pothole on the way to the store. Either way, I lost hope of ever finding another one.
 With the passage of time, that Ford wheel cover, a simple piece of pressed metal, must be viewed in its proper historical context, as an artifact of the Golden Age of Hubcapping. Indeed, the discs from that awful high-top van -- long since disposed of and never missed -- are probably now its most collectible remnant. 
 Whatever style one is looking for, the quest for the hubcap holy grail has changed fundamentally in a digital age. Today, I could go online, find an Econoline wheel cover in minutes and be hammering it onto my van within a day or two. But the thrill of the hunt is gone; the search for beauty is now a rite of commerce. 
 ''Hubcaps are little works of art,'' said Jane Withers of Denver, who has become something of a matron saint to hubcap collectors. ''If you go back 20 or more years, hubcaps were made of high-quality materials: stamped metal, not plastic. They had intricate carvings, emblems, wreaths, crests, coats of arms, brilliant colors -- colors you can't have with plastic.''
 Ms. Withers was a wounded healer -- a nurse with bipolar disorder -- who found salvation by dressing naked wheels. She quit nursing and in 1984 bought a franchise from Hub Cap Annie, a nascent retail chain.
 ''I've never had so much fun in my life,'' Ms. Withers said in a telephone interview. ''I tell people I fell in love with my hubcaps. I have a relationship with them. I walk between the rows in the store and talk to them.''
 No, she cannot name a favorite. ''I have at least 20 of them I call my children,'' she said, ''and I don't want to hurt any of their feelings by picking one.''
 She does particularly admire the flashy late 1950's DeSoto and Dodge discs by Virgil Exner, a celebrated designer of the time, which seem to have influenced the wheel treatments on Messala's chariot in ''Ben Hur.''
 ''They have a lot of gold, with gold spokes and spinners in the middle,'' she noted. 
 Collectors argue whether Exner, of Chrysler, or Harley Earl, of General Motors, had the hottest hand in designing hubcaps; some aficionados consider Earl's spokes-and-spinner design for the 1953 Oldsmobile 98 Fiesta to be the ultimate hubcap.
 Ms. Withers, whose love of hubcaps outlasted two husbands, operates an offbeat hubcap museum next to her whimsically decorated store. 
 The museum is almost as well known in Denver as its curator. ''I used to ride around in an open car dressed as a Viking,'' she said. ''With a helmet with horns on it, a gold brassiere, the whole bit.''
 She also spent time in jail after she was caught in a sting operation, fencing hot hubcaps. ''They called me 'Annie Capone' in the papers for a while,'' she said, explaining that she was accused of taking the goods from addicts. ''They'd stolen them from cars in the airport parking lots,'' she said. ''But that's all behind me now. I had a bad husband and a drug addiction back then.
 ''When I fell in love with hubcaps, I switched addictions.''
 An artist in the Big Bend region of Texas, Collie Ryan, also believes in the healing power of the hubcap, as a sort of mandala of the auto age. She creates colorful, rococo art objects from hubcaps, sold as mandalas with the idea that they are a source of healing energy.
 Another towering figure in the field was Litto Damonte. In 1932 he began to add hubcaps to what was already a dazzling collection of bright, silvery things. ''Anything shiny,'' his grandson Mike Damonte recalled. ''Tinfoil, soda cans, hubcaps.''
 The fascination was fed by a wheel-eating pothole in front of his Napa County ranch, near Pope Valley, Calif. ''My grandfather would hang the hubcaps he found in our wire fence along the road,'' Mike Damonte said.
 By the time the elder Mr. Damonte died in 1985 (at 93), his hubcap array numbered more than 2,000, adorning more than two miles of fence. Two years later, Litto's Hubcap Ranch was recognized as state Historical Landmark No. 939, ''one of California's exceptional 20th Century folk art environments.''
 The display has grown to more than 5,000, and it probably reflects enough light to be seen from space. ''People come by and leave off garbage bags full,'' said Mike Damonte, a volunteer fireman. In his spare time, he and his two sons hang the latest contributions.
 Mr. Damonte realizes that one person's historic landmark may be another's eyesore. ''Two years ago, I ran for school board,'' he said. ''My opponent told people, 'Why would you vote for someone who lives in a junkyard?''' Mr. Damonte views his subsequent electoral victory as a mandate for automotive mandalas.
 Hubcap pilgrims still come by at the rate of 15 to 20 a day -- to reclaim lost covers or worship at this altar of automotive kitsch. The road, now paved, claims fewer victims. If someone finds a needed hubcap, Mr. Damonte asks only that they leave a few to replace it -- a variation on the ''pay it forward'' ethos.
 For those who cannot drop by the ranch, there is the Internet. EBay Motors offers a scattershot supply, and while there is no computerized nexus, dozens of dealers have Web sites and ship worldwide (Note to self: 1987 Ford Econoline hubcap, $35 at ehubcaps.com.) The single attempt at consolidation, the Hub Cap Annie empire, unraveled a few years after it started in 1982. There were once 42 franchises; fewer than half remain.
 There never was an Annie. Nancy Utley, a onetime Memphis real estate professional, founded the chain. Now 72 and retired, she explained over the phone, '''Hub Cap Nancy' just didn't sound right.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Litto's Hubcap Ranch, a California historic site. (Photo by Jerry Garrett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (74%); HISTORY (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); FRANCHISEES (69%); INTERVIEWS (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (61%); NURSES & NURSING (61%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%); CELEBRITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



370 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: For Writers' Program, a New Pedagogy

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH

DATELINE: SOMERVILLE, Mass., April 13 

 BODY:
The first thing to know about Lan Samantha Chang, who has been named the new director of the Iowa Writers' Workshop, is that she has strong ideas about teaching. 
 For one thing, workshops should not be therapy sessions. ''I don't think they should advocate one aesthetic over another,'' Ms. Chang said firmly during an interview last week in a restaurant near her apartment here. ''I don't believe in singling out particular people or destroying them in public, though I make my opinions known.'' 
 Ms. Chang, 40, is a well-praised novelist and short-story writer herself. She will become director next January, with an annual salary of $115,500. She succeeds Frank Conroy, who died this month, and who during his 18 years as director made Iowa one of the nation's most prestigious training grounds for writers. Ms. Chang, now a Briggs-Copeland lecturer in creative writing at Harvard, was among four finalists for the job. She will be the first woman and the first Asian-American to hold the position, school officials say. 
 Ms. Chang will teach a graduate fiction workshop, choose students for the fiction program (poetry students are chosen by the poetry faculty) and will consult on hiring, among other duties. The two-year program, which leads to a master's in fine arts, has no specific academic course requirements. The fiction workshop, which became a full-fledged program in 1936, receives 750 applications for 25 places, and there are 450 poetry applications for 25 places. Tuition for out-of-state students is about $17,000 a year and for in-state students about $6,500 a year. 
 One of her goals, Ms. Chang said, is to raise money from individuals and foundations to provide full tuition scholarship to all workshop students. Now some of them get aid through scholarships and teaching fellowships. 
 The novelist Marilynne Robinson, who was on the seven-member search committee said, ''We felt we couldn't go wrong choosing any of the candidates.'' The others were Jim Shepard, Ben Marcus and Richard Bausch.
 But she noted of Ms. Chang that ''her career is on the upswing, which makes her a valuable presence as an active writer,'' and added: ''She's very devoted to the program,'' where she studied in the early 1990's, and where she has been a visiting faculty member.
 James Alan McPherson, acting director of the workshop and another member of the search committee, said he expected no major changes in the program. ''They have comparable sensibilities,'' he said of Mr. Conroy and Ms. Chang. Like Mr. Conroy, he said, Ms. Chang is comfortable with people from varying backgrounds. In Mr. Conroy's time, the workshop produced writers with as varied an aesthetic as T.C. Boyle, Jane Smiley and Allan Gurganus, all in the same class at Iowa in the 1970's, all taught by John Cheever, a writer with his own singular style.
 Mr. McPherson added: ''She will be closer to the experience of young writers than I was or Frank was.''
 He said the workshop expects from Ms. Chang, as it did from Mr. Conroy, ''a sense of community, a commitment to develop students, and the encouragement of financial help.'' 
 Ms. Chang is the daughter of Chinese immigrants who left China in 1949 and moved to Appleton, Wis. Her father, Nai-Lin Chang, is a retired professor of engineering affiliated with Lawrence University there; her mother, Helen Chung-Hung Hsiang, teaches piano. Ms. Chang, one of four sisters, graduated from Yale, where she was managing editor of The Yale Daily News. She was also an intern in a program at The New York Times aimed at minorities. 
 After Yale, she went to the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard to study public administration. ''I thought I would get a job where I would have to wear pantyhose to work,'' she said. 
 Then she began taking writing courses at the Cambridge Center for Adult Education and was accepted at the Iowa Writers' Workshop. She studied with Ms. Robinson, Mr. McPherson and Mr. Conroy. Just as she was leaving, she learned that one of her short stories had been accepted by The Atlantic Monthly. It became part of her first collection, ''Hunger,'' published in 1998. 
 Ms. Chang said she was disappointed to learn that The Atlantic Monthly had recently announced it would cease publishing fiction regularly in its pages. ''Our country is currently in sore need of fiction,'' she said. ''Our country is hung up on what's quantifiable, on spreadsheets and cost-benefit analysis, the things I learned at the Kennedy School. Even the most honest economist says there are things that can't be explained by numbers.'' 
 She has not turned her back, however, on what she learned about public administration at the Kennedy School. ''I took two classes on leadership and authority,'' she said. ''I found them fascinating.''
 ''I think I will use them,'' she added with a smile. In 2004 Ms. Chang married Robert Caputo, a landscape painter and art teacher, and published her first novel, ''Inheritance,'' about two sisters, Junan and Yinan, in China during the turmoil of the 1930's and 40's who fall in love with the same man. 
 The novel is narrated by Hong, Junan's daughter, who lives in New York in the 1990's. ''My subject is time,'' Ms. Chang said. ''The immigrant experience throws a powerful light on the way time affects us and our families,'' she added. ''Moving to another country creates a gap between the generations, emphasizes the bridges and dislocations across and between the generations.'' 
 Today, she said, ''the publishing industry is focusing on writers as entertainment personalities,'' and for that reason, Iowa is especially valuable because it is ''one of the few havens where a developing writer is given the opportunity to focus on work alone.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts yesterday about the new director of the Iowa Writers' Workshop, Lan Samantha Chang, misidentified the workshop's director in the 1970's, when T.C. Boyle, Jane Smiley and Allan Gurganus were all in the same class. He was John Leggett; Frank Conroy arrived in 1987.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lan Samantha Chang (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREATIVE WRITING (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (89%); TUITION FEES (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%) Writing and Writers; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Scholarships and Fellowships

ORGANIZATION: Iowa Writers' Workshop

PERSON: Lan Samantha Chang; Frank Conroy; Dinitia Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



371 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: No Apology From China for Japan Protests

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 17 

 BODY:
China's top diplomat said Sunday that he saw no need to apologize for a wave of violent protests against Japan, as a seething dispute over history and territory between Asia's two leading powers showed few signs of easing.
 Raucous protests against Japan broke out in several Chinese cities, including Shenyang, in the northeast, and the thriving economic zone of Shenzhen in the south, though there seemed less damage to property than during a spree of vandalism in Shanghai on Saturday.
 China's foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing, was host to his Japanese counterpart, Nobutaka Machimura, here on a one-day visit. But he firmly rejected Japanese calls for China to apologize and pay compensation for damage to diplomatic and commercial property during three weekends of anti-Japan protests. 
 ''The Chinese government has never done anything for which it has to apologize to the Japanese people,'' Mr. Li said. ''The problem now is that the Japanese government has done a series of things that have hurt the feelings of the Chinese people on the Taiwan issue, some international issues and especially the treatment of history.''
 Mr. Machimura called the protests ''deeply deplorable.'' He said Japan was calling on ''the Chinese government to act sincerely and promptly within international rules'' to ensure the safety of its nationals in China.
 Japan's Foreign Ministry press spokesman, Hatsuhisa Takashima, said in Beijing that it was ''basically not believable'' that the Chinese police could not do more to prevent protesters from assaulting Japan's diplomatic compounds. 
 Relations between China and Japan have hit the lowest point in decades as the two feud over access to oil and gas reserves in the East China Sea, Japan's steps to strengthen its strategic alliance with the United States, and newly revised history textbooks that China says gloss over atrocities Japan committed when it occupied China during World War II. 
 China's leaders ignited a frenzy of anti-Japanese activism by permitting an online petition drive, a nationwide boycott movement, and then street demonstrations.
 Beijing has used the expressions of outrage as a platform for a more confrontational approach to Japan. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said last week that China would block a Japanese bid to join the United Nations Security Council unless its neighbor apologized more sincerely and atoned for World War II-era abuses.
 Some analysts say the move amounts to a diplomatic power play, with Beijing leveraging its growing economic might and unsettled emotions from the war era to assert itself as Asia's leading political power.
 But at least in the short term, the streak of violence against Japanese interests has paralyzed diplomacy. Japanese officials warn that the unrest has forced Japanese tourists and businessmen to cancel visits to China and say that broader damage to economic relations, which had been thriving, could not be ruled out.
 ''It is possible that Japan-China relations as a whole, including on the economic front, could decline to a serious state,'' Mr. Machimura said as he left Tokyo for Beijing on Sunday.
 At his meeting with Mr. Li, he proposed that a joint commission review the war history, which Japanese officials said Mr. Li promised to consider. But there appeared to be no breakthroughs.
 Chinese and Japanese leaders have not made reciprocal state visits since 1999, a fact that some experts say has seriously hindered communication. Japanese officials said that Hu Jintao, China's top leader, and Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, might meet on the sidelines of an international conference in Indonesia this week.
 The anti-Japan protests have now continued longer than any major public demonstrations in China since the democracy uprising of 1989, which led to a bloody crackdown. The authorities have deployed thousands of police officers and paramilitary troops in Beijing and other cities, but they have not intervened to prevent protests from becoming violent.
 On Saturday, the authorities in Shanghai, China's wealthiest city, allowed as many as 20,000 people to march through main arteries, tear up Japanese restaurants, smash Japanese cars and pelt the Japanese Consulate with rocks and bottles.
 Smaller gatherings continued Sunday in Nanning, capital of Guangxi Province, as well as Shenyang and Shenzhen, and the police handled them in a similar fashion.
 It is unclear how long authorities will allow protests to continue. A huge show of force around Beijing on Sunday -- dozens of army transport vehicles and police buses surrounded Tiananmen Square and the main embassy district -- prevented large-scale demonstrations in the capital during Mr. Machimura's visit, suggesting they might be starting to tighten the reins.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Protests Spread to Hong Kong
By The New York Times
 HONG KONG, April 17 -- Anger at Japan spilled over from the mainland on Sunday, as thousands of protesters marched, chanted anti-Japanese slogans and waved placards. 
 Historians estimate that as many as 10,000 women were raped in the first few days after the Japanese capture of Hong Kong in 1941. The Japanese turned the city into a military base and executed residents suspected of opposing them.
 To conserve food for soldiers, the Japanese cut rations for civilians and deported many to famine- and disease-ridden areas of the mainland, where many died, said Philip Snow, a historian of the period.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Protests against Japan spread Sunday from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong. Thousands took part. (Photo by Alex Hofford/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); VANDALISM (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); WORLD WAR II (66%); TEXTBOOKS (64%); POLITICS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (59%) Joseph Kahn; Li Zhaoxing (Min); Nobutaka (Min) Machimura

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (74%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (99%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Beijing (China); Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



372 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

North Korean ReactorUnder Close Scrutiny
The suspected shutdown of a nuclear reactor at North Korea's main nuclear weapons complex has raised concern at the White House that the country could be preparing to make good on its recent threat to harvest a new load of nuclear fuel, potentially increasing the size of its nuclear arsenal. A4

Ugandan Civil War Justice
In Uganda, the International Criminal Court and traditional reconciliation ceremonies are clashing in their response to one of Africa's most bizarre and brutal guerrilla wars, an often overlooked conflict that has raged for 18 years in the rugged terrain along Uganda's border with Sudan. A1

Iraq Hostage Tale Fuels Crisis
Iraqi Army officials reported that a hostage crisis south of Baghdad -- which had been narrated in a stream of breathless television reports and news bulletins -- appeared to be nothing but rumor and politically motivated accusations. The resulting hysteria was one vivid illustration of the way Iraq's daily violence and sectarian tensions can be easily twisted into fantasy. A1

Marla Ruzicka, a fiercely energetic 28-year-old from California who ran a one-woman aid mission in Iraq, was killed by a suicide bomber, U.S. embassy officials in Baghdad said. A4

Papal Conclave Begins Today
The conclave to elect a new pope marries the highest Catholic Church solemnity with one of history's longest-lived electoral experiences. The event -- which has not occurred in more than 26 years but dates back nearly a millennium -- is a unique mix of pageantry and practicality. A1

No Apology From China
China's top diplomat said that he saw no need to apologize for a wave of violent protests against Japan, as a dispute over history and territory between Asia's two leading powers showed few signs of easing. A6

India and Pakistan Diplomacy
There were signs of a reconciliation between the nuclear-armed rivals of South Asia as talk of trade, peace and a gas pipeline dominated the meeting between Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, and his Indian counterpart, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. A6

Tory Candidate's Campaign
Michael Howard, the opposition Conservative leader who is challenging Prime Minister Tony Blair in Britain's election campaign, is trying to project an image that has eluded him for years -- that of a regular, if political, guy. A3

Judicial Crisis in Ecuador
A day after President Lucio Gutierrez revoked a state of emergency, Ecuador's Congress convened in a special session to discuss a judicial crisis that has led to dogged anti-government protests and repeated calls for the president's resignation. A12

NATIONAL A14-17

For Anxious Investors,Sharp Eye on Earnings
Wall Street and unusually nervous individual investors are looking to the flood of earnings reports this week to see how optimistic corporate America is in its outlook for the economy. Last week, America's three main stock gauges fell more than 3 percent, putting each at a new low for the year. A1

Nasdaq Nears Deal for Instinet
Nasdaq Stock Market Inc., the largest electronic market place, and a consortium of private investors were near a deal late last night to buy Instinet, the institutional brokerage and electronic trading network controlled by the Reuters Group, for about $1.8 billion, executives involved in the talks said. A17

Reed's Ties Are a Target
As Ralph Reed completes his journey from Christian advocate to professional politician as a candidate for lieutenant governor of Georgia, his ties to embattled Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff and Indian casino money have become inviting targets for critics and rivals. A1

A Week of Rememberance
Oklahoma City has prepared a week of ceremonies to mark the 10th anniversary of the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, including periods of silence, lectures and other events each day this week. A14

House Ethics Panel Paralyzed
The escalating partisan clash over the legalistic details of the ethics process has paralyzed the panel at a moment of intense scrutiny of Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, and has highlighted anew the historical difficulty of politicians judging other politicians. A16

Acela Service Remains Limited
At least one Acela Express train will be ready to run after mechanics scavenged axles with good brakes from other Acela trains. Amtrak said it was also planning to use conventional lower-speed equipment to make some of the trips normally made by the express trains. A15

Confession in Florida Child Case
A registered sex offender has confessed to killing Sarah Lunde, a 13-year-old girl who disappeared a week ago in Florida, the police said. The man was charged with first-degree murder after investigators found the girl's body in an abandoned fish pond. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Mayor's School Initiatives Show Mixed Results
From the moment he won control of New York City's schools, Mayor Bloomberg has urged voters to judge him on education. But with his reelection campaign under way, a look at some of his biggest changes shows mixed academic results. A1

Kerrey's Aims Questioned
New York politicians, thrown off balance by former Senator Bob Kerrey's musings about whether to run for mayor, are struggling to gauge his seriousness. Aides to Mayor Bloomberg expressed bewilderment. B1

Coney Island's Rebirth
Talks of a Coney Island revival have been circulating for decades, but there are signs that perhaps this time a rebirth is in the offing. Not only is a new stadium for the minorleague Brooklyn Cyclones drawing full houses, but the vacant lots there are being snapped up at double the prices of five years ago. B1

Meeting on Gay Issues
Six dissident priests have agreed to meet with the Episcopal bishop of Connecticut tonight to try to settle the growing schism over the Connecticut Diocese's support for gay marriage and the elevation of a gay priest to bishop. B3

42nd Street Rail, Revived
Three transportation projects proposed decades ago in New York City are already in some stage of planning. But George Haikalis, a civil engineer, wants to revive another longdiscussed plan: a crosstown lightrail line on 42nd Street that would close the street to vehicles. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Yankees' Loss Outrages Owner
Moments after the Yankees' 8-4 loss to the Baltimore Orioles, their principal owner George Steinbrenner issued a blistering indictment of his team. The Yankees are off to their worst start in eight years. D1

ARTS E1-8

Laocoon Called a Forgery
A scholar has suggested that ''Laocoon'', a famous sculpture whose unearthing in 1506 has deeply influenced thinking about the ancient Greeks and the nature of visual arts, may well be a Renaissance forgery possibly by Michelangelo himself. E1

OBITUARIES B8

Jose Melis
A classically trained pianist who helped pioneer a broadcasting genre as orchestra leader for the ''Tonight'' show with Jack Paar, he was 85. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Rival Banks Lure Top Talent
After the departure of Morgan Stanley's two most senior investment bankers, the chief executive must now fend off a wave of attempts by archrivals to lure the firm's best investment bankers away. C1

Unsettling Time for ABC
Even before the president of ABC News learned that his division's biggest star had lung cancer, he was wrestling with competitive challenges that were among the most daunting in broadcast news. C1

Authors of Moore's Law
Gordon E. Moore was not the only one to observe the so-called scaling effect that has led to the exponential acceleration of computing power that is now expected to continue at least for the next decade. C1

Chinese Editor Tests Limits
The most powerful business editor in China pushes an aggressive staff of 50 young journalists to investigate government corruption and lift the veil on corporate fraud in China. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: A leader's thoughts on NASA; race and jury selection in California; help for children with AIDS; Brent Staples on the civil rights movement and the No Child Left Behind law.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D8
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E8
Crossword E6
Weather B7


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); ARMIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); RIOTS (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (51%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%); MANMOHAN SINGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UGANDA (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



373 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: A Radical In the White House

BYLINE: By Bob Herbert. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last week -- April 12, to be exact -- was the 60th anniversary of the death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. ''I have a terrific headache,'' he said, before collapsing at the Little White House in Warm Springs, Ga. He died of a massive cerebral hemorrhage on the 83rd day of his fourth term as president. His hold on the nation was such that most Americans, stunned by the announcement of his death that spring afternoon, reacted as though they had lost a close relative.
 That more wasn't made of this anniversary is not just a matter of time; it's a measure of the distance the U.S. has traveled from the egalitarian ideals championed by F.D.R. His goal was ''to make a country in which no one is left out.'' That kind of thinking has long since been consigned to the political dumpster. We're now in the age of Bush, Cheney and DeLay, small men committed to the concentration of big bucks in the hands of the fortunate few. 
 To get a sense of just how radical Roosevelt was (compared with the politics of today), consider the State of the Union address he delivered from the White House on Jan. 11, 1944. He was already in declining health and, suffering from a cold, he gave the speech over the radio in the form of a fireside chat.
 After talking about the war, which was still being fought on two fronts, the president offered what should have been recognized immediately for what it was, nothing less than a blueprint for the future of the United States. It was the clearest statement I've ever seen of the kind of nation the U.S. could have become in the years between the end of World War II and now. Roosevelt referred to his proposals in that speech as ''a second Bill of Rights under which a new basis of security and prosperity can be established for all regardless of station, race or creed.''
 Among these rights, he said, are:
 ''The right to a useful and remunerative job in the industries or shops or farms or mines of the nation.
 ''The right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation.
 ''The right of every farmer to raise and sell his products at a return which will give him and his family a decent living.
 ''The right of every businessman, large and small, to trade in an atmosphere of freedom from unfair competition and domination by monopolies at home or abroad.
 ''The right of every family to a decent home.
 ''The right to adequate medical care and the opportunity to achieve and enjoy good health.
 ''The right to adequate protection from the economic fears of old age, sickness, accident and unemployment.
 ''The right to a good education.''
 I mentioned this a few days ago to an acquaintance who is 30 years old. She said, ''Wow, I can't believe a president would say that.''
 Roosevelt's vision gave conservatives in both parties apoplexy in 1944 and it would still drive them crazy today. But the truth is that during the 1950's and 60's the nation made substantial progress toward his wonderfully admirable goals, before the momentum of liberal politics slowed with the war in Vietnam and the election in 1968 of Richard Nixon.
 It wouldn't be long before Ronald Reagan was, as the historian Robert Dallek put it, attacking Medicare as ''the advance wave of socialism'' and Dick Cheney, from a seat in Congress, was giving the thumbs down to Head Start. Mr. Cheney says he has since seen the light on Head Start. But his real idea of a head start is to throw government money at people who already have more cash than they know what to do with. He's one of the leaders of the G.O.P. gang (the members should all wear masks) that has executed a wholesale transfer of wealth via tax cuts from working people to the very rich.
 Roosevelt was far from a perfect president, but he gave hope and a sense of the possible to a nation in dire need. And he famously warned against giving in to fear.
 The nation is now in the hands of leaders who are experts at exploiting fear, and indifferent to the needs and hopes, even the suffering, of ordinary people.
 ''The test of our progress,'' said Roosevelt, ''is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.''
 Sixty years after his death we should be raising a toast to F.D.R. and his progressive ideas. And we should take that opportunity to ask: How in the world did we allow ourselves to get from there to here?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); POLITICS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (67%) United States Economy; United States Economy

PERSON: Bob Herbert; Franklin Delano (1882-1945) Roosevelt; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Tom (Rep) Delay

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



374 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: A Whiff Of Stagflation

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the 1970's soaring prices of oil and other commodities led to stagflation -- a combination of high inflation and high unemployment, which left no good policy options. If the Fed cut interest rates to create jobs, it risked causing an inflationary spiral; if it raised interest rates to bring inflation down, it would further increase unemployment.
 Can it happen again?
 Last week fears of a return to stagflation sent stock prices to a five-month low. What few seem to have noticed, however, is that a mild form of stagflation -- rising inflation in an economy still well short of full employment -- has already arrived. 
 True, measured unemployment isn't bad by historical standards, and inflation is in the low single digits. But inflation is creeping up, and it's doing so despite a labor market that is in worse shape than the official unemployment rate suggests.
 Let's start with the jobs picture. The official unemployment rate is 5.2 percent -- roughly equal to the average for the Clinton years.
 But unemployment statistics only count those who are actively looking for jobs. Every other indicator shows a situation much less favorable to workers than that of the 1990's. A lower fraction of the adult population is employed; the average duration of unemployment -- a rough indicator of how long it takes laid-off workers to find new jobs -- is much higher than it was in the 1990's. 
 Above all, the weak job market leaves workers with no bargaining power, so they aren't getting ahead: wage increases have been minimal, and haven't kept up with inflation.
 Underlying these disappointing numbers is sluggish job creation. Private-sector employment is still lower than it was before the 2001 recession.
 Things could be, and have been, worse. But those whose standard of living depends on wages, not capital gains -- in other words, the vast majority of Americans -- aren't feeling particularly prosperous. By two to one, people tell pollsters that the economy is ''only fair'' or ''poor,'' not ''good'' or ''excellent.''
 Why, then, has the Fed been raising interest rates? Because it is worried about inflation, which has risen to the top end of the 2 to 3 percent range the Fed prefers. 
 What's driving inflation? Not wages: labor costs have been falling, because wages are growing less than productivity. Oil prices are a big part of the story, but not all of it. Other commodity prices are also rising; health care costs are once again on the march. And a combination of capacity shortages, rising Asian demand and a weakening dollar has given industries like cement and steel new ''pricing power.''
 It all adds up to a mild case of stagflation: inflation is leading the Fed to tap on the brakes, even though this doesn't look or feel like a full-employment economy.
 We shouldn't overstate the case: we're not back to the economic misery of the 1970's. But the fact that we're already experiencing mild stagflation means that there will be no good options if something else goes wrong. 
 Suppose, for example, that the consumer pullback visible in recent data turns out to be bigger than we now think, and growth stalls. (Not that long ago many economists thought that an oil price in the 50's would cause a recession.) Can the Fed stop raising interest rates and go back to rate cuts without causing the dollar to plunge and inflation to soar?
 Or suppose that there's some kind of oil supply disruption -- or that warnings about declining production from Saudi oil fields turn out to be right. Suppose that Asian central banks decide that they already have too many dollars. Suppose that the housing bubble bursts. Any of these events could easily turn our mild case of stagflation into something much more serious.
 How do we get out of this bind? As the old joke goes, I wouldn't start from here. We should have spent the years of cheap oil encouraging conservation; we should have spent the years of modest growth in medical costs reforming our health care system. Oh, and we'd have a wider range of policy options if the budget weren't so deeply in deficit.
 So if any of these things does come to pass, we'll just have to see how well an administration in which political operatives make all economic policy decisions, and the Treasury secretary is only a salesman, handles crises.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); US DOLLAR (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); STATISTICS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Opinion; United States Economy

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



375 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Old Proposal to Build a Light-Rail Line on 42nd Street Is Revisited

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Some ideas never go away. Three transportation projects first proposed decades ago -- a Second Avenue subway, a Long Island Rail Road connection to Grand Central Terminal and a direct train ride from Manhattan to Kennedy Airport -- all find themselves in some stage of planning now. 
 A man named George Haikalis would like to revive another long-discussed project. He wants New York City to build a crosstown light-rail line on 42nd Street and to close the street to vehicles. He wishes to create, in effect, a giant pedestrian mall between the Hudson and East Rivers. 
 At first, Mr. Haikalis, a civil engineer and a transportation planner who once worked for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, may seem like just another dreamer with a grandiose but improbable plan. 
 But after six years, he raised nearly $200,000 to pay for a series of technical studies that he says demonstrate the tremendous benefits for the economy, the transit system and the environment from a light-rail system, the term now preferred for streetcars and trolleys. 
 Mr. Haikalis plans to present the three studies tonight at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square at a meeting sponsored by C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, who is running for mayor. While she has not endorsed the plan, her interest in it is a modest step forward for an idea that has persisted through four mayoral administrations. 
 Streetcars were the dominant mode of public transit on 42nd Street from 1898 to 1946, when they were replaced by buses. 
 The City Planning Commission considered an above-ground rail line on 42nd Street in 1978. The Department of Transportation commissioned its own study a few years later. Then the Metropolitan Transportation Authority took a look.
 In June 1994, the City Council gave overwhelming approval to the project, which was estimated to cost $135 million. The city was authorized to choose one of four bidders to lay the track, build the cars and operate a new trolley system as a franchise. 
 And then the plan quietly died. Rudolph W. Giuliani, the mayor at the time, withdrew his initial support, citing concerns about the feasibility and cost. Deeply discouraged, the leading proponent of the project, Frederic S. Papert, gave up promoting it.
 Mr. Papert, who runs the 42nd Street Development Corporation, a nonprofit group that has worked on redeveloping Theater Row since the 1970's, sought to have three of the six lanes on 42nd Street dedicated for use by streetcars, while the other three lanes would be used for one-way westbound traffic. 
 Mr. Haikalis's idea is, in some respects, more ambitious. He wants to close the 60-foot-wide street to cars and trucks altogether. The M42 bus line would be replaced with a 2.5-mile light rail: 1.9 miles on 42nd Street, between First and 12th Avenues, and short extensions to two ferry terminals, at 39th Street on the Hudson River and 35th Street on the East River. 
 The typical travel time from end to end would be slightly more than 21 minutes, based on 20 seconds of ''dwell time'' at each of its 16 stops and the current configuration of traffic lights, according to Halcrow, a London-based planning and design company that conducted one of the technical studies. 
 Each rail car would be 150 feet long and hold up to 300 passengers, with low floors to make the cars easy to board and exit, even for disabled riders. The Halcrow study found that the rail system would cost as much to operate as the buses it would displace but would carry three times as many passengers.
 According to the study, the project would cost $360 million to $510 million. The biggest single expense would probably be moving underground utility connections, including water and sewer mains, gas pipes and cables for telecommunications and electricity.
 A second study, by Samuel I. Schwartz, a former first deputy transportation commissioner, concluded that the traffic changes from banning vehicles could be managed by adjusting parking rules, traffic-regulation enforcement, lane markings on surrounding streets and traffic-signal timing. 
 The final study commissioned by Mr. Haikalis concluded that the rail project would save travel time, increase office rent and occupancy rates, and reduce traffic accidents. 
 According to that study, by Regina Armstrong, an economist at Urbanomics of New York and New Jersey, a consulting firm, the project would raise nearby property values by $3.6 billion and bring about $527.3 million in annual net benefits to the city's economy, primarily through higher city and state tax revenues. That sum takes into account the estimated $84.1 million cost each year for diverting traffic and deliveries from the street. The light rail would cost $29.7 million to $39.4 million to operate each year, she found. 
 Even if political support for the project could be found, the technical challenges would be considerable. For instance, overhead electrical wires would be the simplest power source for the streetcars, but they are considered unsightly. Other options are hydrogen fuel cells or vehicles that use a hybrid of diesel and electricity. It is unclear which public entity, if any, would be willing to operate the system.
 Quite often, detailed studies follow political support. Mr. Haikalis seems to have the process in reverse. A small nonprofit group he founded in 1997, the Institute for Rational Urban Mobility, paid for the studies using a grant from an anonymous donor, through the New York Community Trust, a foundation.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has invested much of his political capital in the proposal to build a football stadium and convention center on the Far West Side. A $2.1 billion extension of the No.7 subway line, to be paid for by the city, is a major element of that plan. 
 City officials, while skeptical, said they were willing to hear Mr. Haikalis's ideas.
 ''In the past, we've had concerns about the feasibility of a 42nd Street light rail, particularly because of construction and traffic mitigation issues,'' said Kay Sarlin, a spokeswoman for the Department of Transportation. ''The city's current transit priority in the area is extending the No.7 train. However, we've met with the institute to discuss its proposal, and we look forward to seeing more detailed plans.''
 Ms. Sarlin noted that two subway lines -- the shuttle and the No.7 -- already run under the street, although they cover only the stretch between Grand Central and Times Square. 
 A spokesman for Consolidated Edison, which objected to the project in the early 1990's, was noncommittal. ''We'd have to review the details,'' said the spokesman, Michael S. Clendenin. ''Relocation costs with any project are always a concern.''
 Ms. Fields, the Manhattan borough president, said she was intrigued by the proposal. ''I am interested in exploring alternative transportation modes, from east to west, as a way of reducing congestion and dealing with environmental issues from the many cars on 42nd Street,'' she said. 
 More than 20 major cities -- including Los Angeles, Boston and Pittsburgh -- have built light-rail systems in recent decades. Across the Hudson, New Jersey Transit has three light-rail lines: the Newark subway, the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail connecting Bayonne, Jersey City and Hoboken, and the new River Line between Camden and Trenton.
 Michael Horodniceanu, a former city transportation official who is not involved in the effort, said support for a light-rail line might ultimately have to come from pedestrians, commuters and drivers who are tired of congestion.
 ''As time passes and as we become more and more dependent on transit rather than on cars, the chances are going to get better and better,'' he predicted.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an illustrator's rendering of a proposed light-rail train on 42nd Street referred incorrectly in some copies to the area depicted. It was between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas, not at Grand Central Terminal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a light-rail train west of Fifth Avenue. A proposal calls for a light-rail line to be constructed along 42nd Street. (Photo by Maria Teresa Facchinetti)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); TRAINS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



376 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1969 words

HEADLINE: Ralph Reed's Zeal for Lobbying Is Shaking His Political Faithful

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and PHILIP SHENON; David D. Kirkpatrick reported from Atlanta for this article, and Philip Shenon from Washington.

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
In 30 years of culture wars, few conservative Christian standard bearers have traveled further in American politics than Ralph Reed. The former head of the Christian Coalition has been a high-priced communications consultant, a top Bush campaign adviser, chairman of Georgia's Republican Party and now a candidate for lieutenant governor here. 
 Campaigning in early April at a Republican district meeting outside Atlanta, Mr. Reed talked of his small-town roots in northeast Georgia.
 ''I'm not going to forget where I came from,'' he said. ''I am not going to forget what I stand for.'' 
 But as he completes his journey from Christian advocate to professional politician, Mr. Reed, 43, finds himself carrying some baggage: his ties to an old friend, the Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff.
 In Washington, federal investigations of Mr. Abramoff, a close ally of Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, have revealed that Mr. Abramoff paid Mr. Reed's consulting firm more than $4 million to help organize Christian opposition to Indian casinos in Texas and Louisiana -- money that came from other Indians with rival casinos. 
 Mr. Reed declined to comment for this article; he has said publicly that he did not know that casino owners were paying for his services and that he has never deviated from his moral opposition to gambling. But the episode is a new blemish on the boyish face that once personified the rise of evangelical Christians to political power in America.
 Some of Mr. Reed's past patrons -- including the Rev. Pat Robertson, the Christian broadcaster who set Mr. Reed on the national stage by hiring him to run the Christian Coalition -- say his work with Mr. Abramoff's Indian casino clients raises questions about how he has balanced his personal ambitions with his Christian principles. 
 ''You know that song about the Rhinestone Cowboy, 'There's been a load of compromising on the road to my horizon,''' Mr. Robertson said. ''The Bible says you can't serve God and Mammon.'' 
 In Georgia, Mr. Reed's rival in the Republican primary is playing up his links with Indian casinos to try to revive longstanding criticism from conservative Christian purists that Mr. Reed has sometimes put his own ambitions ahead of their goals. At the meeting near Atlanta, for example, his opponents were doing their best to sow doubts in the crowd. 
 ''The Christian Coalition, they may have some shady background,'' said Robert McIntyre, the treasurer of the Spalding County Republican Party, who still wore a Ralph Reed sticker on his lapel. ''I was being loyal to Ralph Reed, but since now some things have come up, I need to listen. I am now wavering.''
 Others argue, however, that shaking soiled hands is sometimes the price of making an impact.
 ''Thirty or 40 years ago, the people who you would see as the spokesmen for traditional values kind of things were people who were outsiders railing against the system,'' said Kelly Shackelford, a prominent Christian conservative and president of the Free Market Foundation in Texas. ''And if they didn't get a hundred percent of what they believe in, they weren't going to play.'' Mr. Reed led a new wave of Christian conservatives, Mr. Shackelford said, who ''understand that you have to be part of the system, and you can't sit outside and throw rocks at everybody.'' 
 Bill Paxon, a former Congressman turned lobbyist who worked closely with Mr. Reed on Republican Congressional campaigns, said Mr. Reed was a man of many dimensions: a heartfelt Christian, a limited-government conservative and a canny political street fighter. ''He was always all of the above,'' Mr. Paxon said.
 Unlike most conservative Christian leaders, Mr. Reed was drawn to Republican politics first and evangelical faith later. He arrived in Washington as a 19-year-old Senate intern in 1981 and became executive director of the College Republican National Committee two years later, under Mr. Abramoff as chairman.
 Mr. Abramoff was ''a conservative firebrand,'' Mr. Reed wrote in his book ''Active Faith.'' The men became so close that Mr. Reed sometimes slept on Mr. Abramoff's couch and later introduced Mr. Abramoff to his future wife. 
 The same year he joined the College Republicans, Mr. Reed started attending an evangelical church and became born again. ''I was a bare-knuckled political operative,'' Mr. Reed wrote in his book. ''In the rough and tumble of politics, I began to sense the need for spiritual roots.'' 
 In 1988, Mr. Robertson hired Mr. Reed to build the Christian Coalition from his campaign organization. Mr. Reed became a hero to evangelical Christians who saw him as a fresh-faced, telegenic spokesman who could defend their views to the secular world of Sunday-morning talk shows and weekly magazines. 
 But he also boasted at times of working ''under the cover of night'' to mobilize grass-roots support. He honed his skills at organizing phone banks and direct-mail campaigns, and former associates say he talked in the cynical lingo of political operatives, referring to a candidate as ''the body'' and about fund-raising ''dough.'' 
 ''There is a duality to Ralph, the godly rhetoric and the hardball political operative, and what he says with his godly hat on is very different than with his political hat on,'' said Marshall Wittmann, who worked as legislative director of the Christian Coalition but is now a senior fellow at the centrist-liberal Democratic Leadership Council. ''There are very few guardrails for Ralph when it comes to politics.''
 During his years at the Christian Coalition, his opponents and some evangelical Christians, including Dr. James C. Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family, sometimes argued that Mr. Reed put Republican political or economic goals ahead of social conservative policies. The Internal Revenue Service declined to renew the Christian Coalition's tax-exempt status as a nonpartisan group in 1999, concluding after a 10-year review that it had worked too closely with the Republican Party. 
 Soon after he left the organization in 1997, it nearly imploded as financial problems came to light. 
 At the time, Mr. Reed said he was starting a political consulting and communications firm ''because I know there are hundreds of candidates out there who share the kind of values that I do.'' But his firm, Century Strategies, also took on deep-pocket corporate clients, including Verizon, Enron and Microsoft. 
 Some Christian conservatives were surprised. ''Most of us in the movement are where we are because we believe in what we are doing,'' said the Rev. Don Wildmon, founder of the American Family Association. ''I don't know any of us trying to get rich.''
 Some of Mr. Reed's efforts for clients soon drew criticism. While he was working as an adviser to George W. Bush's campaign in 2000, he also was working for Microsoft on a campaign to influence Mr. Bush and other presidential candidates about the company's antitrust battles. Mr. Reed later apologized for creating the appearance of a conflict. 
 In Georgia, some conservative Christians were troubled by Mr. Reed's consulting work for Mitch Skandalakis, a losing candidate for lieutenant governor who ran advertisements portraying one rival in racial stereotypes and another as a drug addict. (Mr. Reed said afterward that he opposed racially divisive tactics.) 
 ''There are questions as to whether Mitch Skandalakis lined up well with the viewpoints of social and economic conservatives,'' said Randy Hicks, president of the Georgia Family Council. ''And Ralph taking him on was not well received by an awful lot of people.'' 
 By 1999, Mr. Abramoff, who was well known as a lobbyist for Indian casinos, had hired Mr. Reed's firm to help organize antigambling campaigns in Texas and Louisiana. 
 Lisa Baron, a spokeswoman for Mr. Reed's firm, said that Mr. Abramoff had told Mr. Reed that the payment for his consulting services came from a ''broad-based coalition'' of antigambling groups. ''We did not know who his specific clients were or their specific interests,'' Ms. Baron said.
 In fact, Mr. Abramoff had recruited Mr. Reed to help the Coushatta Indians of Louisiana shut down or block casinos operated or proposed by the Tiguas, in neighboring Texas, or the Jena Band of Choctaws, in Louisiana, according to disclosures by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, which is investigating $82 million in lobbying fees that Mr. Abramoff and his partner, Michael Scanlon, reaped from tribes. 
 E-mail messages disclosed by the committee last year offered some unflattering views of Mr. Reed and Mr. Abramoff. In one, Mr. Reed forwarded potentially damaging information about Indian contributions to a politician supporting the casinos, saying, ''We are getting this in the water with the right people.''
 In another, he called supportive legislators his ''tigers.'' And he boasted of how he had gotten ''our pastors all riled up'' to push John Cornyn, who was then Texas attorney general and is now a senator, to close the Tigua casino. Mr. Cornyn, however, already had opposed gambling, according to a spokesman.
 After a court ruled against the Tiguas' casino on Feb. 11, 2002, Mr. Abramoff wrote to Mr. Reed in an e-mail message: ''I wish those moronic Tiguas were smarter in their political contributions. I'd love us to get our mitts on that moolah.'' 
 Ms. Baron, Mr. Reed's spokeswoman, said that after the cost of direct mail, phone banks and radio advertising, his firm kept only 15 percent to 20 percent of the roughly $4 million it received from Mr. Abramoff between 1999 and 2002. 
 ''Ralph is in the casino-closing business,'' she said, ''and we ran a successful grass-roots campaign to close casinos and prevent casinos from operating.'' 
 Seven days after the ''moolah'' message, however, Mr. Abramoff sent the Tigua tribe an elaborate proposal that it pay him to help reopen the casino. Ms. Baron said that Mr. Reed had ''no knowledge'' of Mr. Abramoff's plan to seek business on both sides of that casino fight. 
 In the Christian conservative world that forms Mr. Reed's most natural political base, many say they accept his explanation. ''He was betrayed by a friend who lied to him,'' said Dr. Richard Land, president of the ethics and religious liberties commission of the Southern Baptist Convention. 
 Tom Minnery, a vice president of Focus on the Family, said he did not know the facts. He said the group had often criticized Republican politicians, including Mr. DeLay, for taking money from gambling interests. Of Mr. Reed, Mr. Minnery said, ''We wish he wouldn't have done that.'' 
 Mr. Reed's primary opponent, State Senator Casey Cagle, criticized him last week for inviting at least three lobbyists whose firms have worked for gambling concerns to a Washington fund-raiser tomorrow. 
 ''Ralph has a lot of things he has got to answer for, like this gambling situation,'' said Joel McElhannon, a consultant to Mr. Cagle's campaign. ''It strains believability that somebody hands him $4.2 million and he doesn't know where that money came from.''
 Among the Republican Party stalwarts at the meeting near Atlanta, though, many were eager to snap pictures of themselves and their families with Mr. Reed. In his speech, he omitted references to God, prayer, abortion, obscenity or the Christian Coalition, instead echoing President Bush's inaugural themes about spreading democracy abroad.
 ''We are so proud of him when he gets on television because he speaks for people like me, true conservative Republicans, and it is such a breath of fresh air to see someone who can go toe to toe with the people who don't,'' said Jean Studdard, a local Republican official. 
 ''We really haven't heard anything about the Indian gambling thing yet,'' she added. ''Of course, we want to hear Ralph's side of the story.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ralph Reed saying the Pledge of Allegiance in March at a golf club in south Georgia to kick off his campaign for lieutenant governor. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
Ralph Reed in 1997 with the Rev. Pat Robertson, who hired Mr. Reed at the Christian Coalition but now questions his work regarding casinos. (Photo by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 Ralph Reed, now a candidate. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CASINOS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); GAMING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%) Gambling; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Indians, American; Casinos; Gambling; Election Issues ; Lieutenant Governors (US); Elections

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%)

PERSON: David D Kirkpatrick; Philip Shenon; Ralph Reed; Jack Abramoff; Pat (Rev) Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Texas; Louisiana; Georgia

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



377 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Pushing (and Toeing) the Line in China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Hu Shuli, the most powerful business editor in China, used to write propaganda for Workers' Daily, the Communist Party's publication. Now Ms. Hu pushes an aggressive staff of 50 young journalists to investigate government corruption and lift the veil on corporate fraud in China.
 Since 1998, Ms. Hu, 52, has been the driving force behind Caijing magazine, a thriving business journal published twice a month that is now a must-read in the capital. At a time when the state still holds tight control over the media, regularly censoring articles and closing down errant publications, Caijing (which means ''finance and economy'') has artfully pushed the envelope on what is journalistically permissible, writing exposes on the government's reaction to severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS; stock market manipulation; and corruption at some of the nation's biggest state-owned banks. 
 ''I know how to measure the boundary lines,'' Ms. Hu said over lunch. ''We go up to the line -- and we might even push it. But we never cross it.'' 
 Caijing's aggressiveness, which has earned Ms. Hu the title of ''most dangerous woman in China'' in several press articles and magazine profiles, is a result, in part, of its status as a business publication in China. While press freedoms are severely restricted here, the government -- perhaps hoping to develop an open and robust capital market system -- has given the business news outlets here greater latitude and broader press freedoms. And while Ms. Hu's glossy journal has carefully steered away from some political issues, like the Falun Gong movement, that the government has deemed largely off limits to the press, media specialists say that Caijing has become one of China's first noteworthy magazines built on Western journalism practices.
 ''Caijing is about as good as it gets in China,'' says Orville Schell, dean of the graduate school of journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, which has trained several Cai-jing reporters and editors. ''And they've picked the perfect niche -- business -- which gives them the maximum latitude to do investigative work in China.''
 But some of that investigative work has brought Caijing's editors to the attention of the government, and the result was that they were made aware of the limits on press freedom in China. Wang Boming, one of the people who helped obtain financing for the publication, said that people from the magazine have been called in occasionally and had to perform a ''self-criticism.'' 
 Chen Zhiwu, a professor of finance at the Yale School of Management, said that the magazine's journalistic drive has noticeably slackened. ''Caijing is a good magazine, but they used to be even bolder a few years ago,'' he said. ''Now, they're more cautious about who they write about.''
 Still, many believe that Caijing has made the most of what the government will allow. When the magazine published an expose on how fund management companies were taking advantage of investors, the story rattled the industry and spurred an investigation by regulators. 
 When Caijing wrote about a public company manipulating its stock price and falsifying profits, trading in the stock was suspended and regulators opened an inquiry. 
 And when the SARS crisis was raging in early 2003, Caijing's lengthy exploration of how the disease spread and how the government covered it up was one of the few critical accounts to appear in the Chinese news media.
 Built on such exposes, Caijing's circulation has reached about 80,000 and the magazine has even turned a profit, according to Ms. Hu. It has also spawned imitators as other publications like Business Watch and Economic Observer try to emulate its hard-charging style. 
 ''Caijing opened up a new sector for China's magazines,'' says Liu Weizhou, editor of the 21st Century Economic Herald, widely considered to be one of the nation's best newspapers. ''Caijing has also influenced many newspapers by finding exclusive news.''
 Much of the success of Caijing is built on the feisty, fast-talking Ms. Hu. Born in Beijing, she grew up in a family of journalists. Her mother worked for Workers' Daily; her aunt ran a national children's newspaper. Her grandfather was an international news editor. And her great-uncle, Hu Yuzhi, was one of modern China's most famous publishers and intellectuals. He translated Edgar Snow, was a friend and publisher of the famous Chinese writer Lu Xun, and in the 1950's published the Guangming Daily.
 But when the Cultural Revolution got under way in the mid-1960's, the Hu family fell out of favor. Hu Yuzhi, who knew Mao Zedong and served under Zhou Enlai, was blacklisted. 
 Barely a teenager when this tumultuous period began, Hu Shuli did what many youths of the time did -- traveled the country, trying to make sense of the Cultural Revolution.
 At 16, she was sent to the countryside. Ms. Hu's parents were also sent to farm in the country. Then, in 1970, she joined the army, where for the next eight years she worked as a nurse's assistant in a hospital in northern Jiangsu province, about 375 miles north of Nanjing. Ms. Hu says she spent much of her time there reading books and teaching herself English, history and literature.
 ''I thought, 'The country is beginning to change, and I should prepare,''' she recalls. ''I wasn't sure I could go to college, but I wanted to read everything I could. I had a determined plan and a lot of notebooks.''
 After the Cultural Revolution came to an end, she got a chance. She passed a college entrance examination in 1978 and enrolled at People's University in Beijing, where she studied journalism.
 Back then, journalism was confined to party papers and Communist thinking. Her dissertation evaluating coverage in The New York Times of the shooting of President Ronald Reagan, she said, got a poor grade from her professor for her inability to tie it to Marxist theory. Her professor asked: ''Where's the class analysis?''
 After college, she got a job at Workers' Daily, where she was allowed to write about corruption among some local officials in small Hebei province. But in 1989, during the Tiananmen Square demonstrations, her paper went dark.
 ''After June 4, I joined some demonstrations with my colleagues,'' she says. ''We were not allowed to print anything during that time.''
 Ms. Hu is careful to say she was not a radical or activist. She was simply ''observing history, witnessing the tragedy.'' Her real work was in newspapers, she says, writing and pushing them to modernize.
 After a fellowship at the World Press Institute in St. Paul, in the mid-1980's, for instance, she pressed Workers' Daily to expand from the standard four-page format and start to accept advertising (there was virtually none at the time).
 ''Imagine, we only had four pages in China,'' she says. ''The most amazing thing in the U.S. was even the prison newspapers had 16 pages.''
 When more important economic and market reforms came in the 1990's, she moved to a more independent newspaper, The China Business Times, and began following economics and finance.
 Along the way, friends say she got to know a group of Chinese businessmen who had studied in the United States and, upon their return to Beijing, helped establish China's stock market. Some members of that group later became interested in funding a magazine. And Ms. Hu was ready for something new. Together they created Caijing.
 ''Our agreement was I'll do what I want. I'll never put my hand in the business side, but I want a big editorial budget,'' she says. They gave it to her. 
 Now, even Western journalists in Beijing often have to follow Caijing's lead. When the head of one of China's largest state-owned banks, the China Construction Bank, resigned last month, Caijing was the first to report on a lawsuit in the United States that accused him of accepting bribes.
 But how independent is Caijing? The magazine is owned by the Stock Exchange Executive Council, a state-owned entity loosely tied to the nation's stock market -- all of which means Caijing must watch its step so as not to run afoul of top government leaders or state censors when it investigates corruption inside and outside of the government. 
 ''Caijing has a good reputation pushing the borders,'' says Perry Link, a professor of East Asian Studies at Princeton University who has written about the Chinese news media. ''But they have to be careful. They may have flexibility, but it's flexibility with a leash.''
 For Ms. Hu, running Caijing was both predestined and accidental. After her college placed her in the journalism school, she was disappointed and went to see her aging great-uncle, Hu Yuzhi.
 She recalls: ''I told him 'I'm studying journalism, but I don't want to.' He said, 'Oh, it's great. You should do it. After the Cultural Revolution is over, journalism will be very important again. You'll see.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hu Shuli is the editor of the business journal Caijing. (Photo by Doug Kanter for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 A cover story last month in Caijing focused on a bribery scandal. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); TRENDS (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SARS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%) Magazines; Freedom of the Press; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Frauds and Swindling

ORGANIZATION: Caijing (Journal)

PERSON: David Barboza; Hu Shuli

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



378 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: AS STOCKS SLIDE, INVESTORS FOCUS ON EARNINGS DATA

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
After last week's market plunge -- when America's three main stock gauges fell more than 3 percent -- Wall Street and unusually nervous individual investors are looking to the flood of earnings reports this week to see how optimistic corporate America is in its outlook for the economy. 
 Almost a third of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and almost half the 30 companies that make up the Dow Jones industrial average are to report earnings for the first three months of the year. But more importantly, many of them will comment on the financial quarters ahead and could either counter or reinforce the current pessimism about the economy.
 Among the big names are Intel, a bellwether for the already struggling technology sector, whose shares fell 5 percent last week, and Caterpillar, a company whose earnings and stock price are hurt when economic growth slows. Its stock plunged nearly 8 percent. 
 But early earnings warnings from companies like General Motors and Ford have already discouraged investors, and I.B.M.'s surprise earnings shortfall last week was one reason that stocks dropped so sharply. And while earnings growth for the quarter is expected to be respectable, that growth is likely to be well below the pace of last year. 
 Whether or not the answer on the economic outlook from corporate executives is positive, it is clear that the mood of the investors has changed markedly. Investors finally seem to believe that high crude oil and gasoline prices are curtailing consumer spending, slowing economic growth and cutting into corporate earnings.
 The suddenness of this shift, based on just a few new economic reports last week, is probably why the market fell so sharply. It had its worst week since August, and all three main market gauges are at new lows for the year.
 ''I'm nervous,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. ''Although the market sold off earlier this year and had a sharp decline in the beginning of 2003, this feels a little bit different. Maybe it's the violence of it.''
 Only six weeks ago, on March 4, the Dow Jones industrials stood just 59 points from 11,000 and both the Dow and the S.&P. 500 were at their highest levels since the summer of 2001.
 Investors were worried then about economic growth being a little too strong and emerging inflationary pressures. Now, the Dow is just 87 points from 10,000 and the two gauges are on the verge of giving up all the gains since the election in November. 
 The shift in mood and economic outlook has been so swift that Federal Reserve officials appear to have been caught flat-footed.
 In the minutes released last week from the March 22 meeting of Fed policy makers, panel members talked of solid job growth and capital spending and expressed concern about inflationary pressures.
 Since then, it has been reported that job growth slowed in March and that retail sales were much weaker than expected last month. The United States' record trade deficit with the rest of the world in February also showed that American exports were sluggish.
 Even if the market stabilizes, it is not clear that it can get back onto a track to new highs. That is because stocks are falling now on a surge in fears of slower economic growth. But if that concern passes, then investors are likely to be faced with the consequences of stronger growth: inflation pressures and higher interest rates from the Federal Reserve.
 ''We don't have a lot of evidence that things are terrible, yet,'' said Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities.
 He said that the stock decline so far had not changed his forecast of a 7 percent return, including dividends, for the S.&P. 500 over the next 12 months. But, he added, ''That certainly is not enough to be considered a compelling reason to buy stocks.''
 A drop in oil and gasoline prices would reduce fears of slowing growth and maybe calm the stock market. But last week, the price of crude oil for May delivery plunged 5.3 percent to $50.49 a barrel and the Dow dropped 3.6 percent, the S.&P. 500 fell 3.3 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 4.6 percent. 
 A rebound in foreign markets, where some benchmark stock gauges dropped more than 4 percent last week, could help confidence, but foreign investors usually look to Wall Street to stabilize a global fall in the markets. In Tokyo, the Nikkei average of 225 stocks fell 369.48, or 3.3 percent, to 11,001.21 at the 11 a.m. lunch break. 
 The recent drop in longer-term interest rates, with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note back down to 4.24 percent Friday could help.
 Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital Management is betting on earnings. ''Between now and the next jobs report, it will have to be earnings to stabilize the market,'' he said.
 The next reading on the views of Federal Reserve policy makers on the strength of the economy does not come until their meeting on May 3. Reassurances on both growth and inflation could allay investors' fears. 
 The next important data on economic growth -- the April unemployment report -- is not due until May 6. The two inflation reports scheduled this week, the Producer Price Index and the Consumer Price Index, could have little impact if they come in as expected. 
 So until May -- except for a decline in oil prices -- there does not seem to be much that could give stocks a lift besides good earnings.
 Based on current forecasts, earnings in the first quarter already look better than expected but still smaller than the 19.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004. The Wall Street consensus is that profits for the companies in the S.&P. 500 index will increase 8.6 percent, compared with the first quarter of 2004, up from an 8.2 percent prediction on April 1, according to Thomson Financial. The forecast for the second quarter, however, has dropped to 7.6 percent, from 8.8 percent. The forecasts for the third quarter, 15.8 percent, and the fourth quarter, 12.3 percent, have both moved higher. 
 A lot of the bad earnings news, from G.M. and Ford for example, is already factored into the market. Without these two companies, the first-quarter earnings forecast would be at 11 percent. But negative surprises are still a risk, like the one from I.B.M. last week, which set off the third -- and worst -- day of the sell-off Friday. 
 Mr. McManus of Banc of America Securities is cautious about earnings over the next couple of quarters. ''With interest rates expected to rise, and crude oil and gasoline prices still high,'' he said, ''it seems to me that the same conditions that caused earnings to slow are still there.''
 Mr. Paulsen said one positive is that ''it will be more difficult this week to have a negative surprise because of how far you took expectations down last week,'' adding, ''The impact of a positive surprise could be greater than it would have been.''
 The sharp decline of the market itself, and a surge in bearish sentiment among individual investors, could also be laying the groundwork for a rebound.
 The American Association of Individual Investors' reading of bullish market sentiment is at its lowest since September 1992 after plunging last week past the recent low of February 2003.
 But it was just three weeks from that February low in sentiment that the stock market began the big rally that resulted in the 26.4 percent leap in the S.&P. 500 that year, ending a three-year decline.
 ''Generally when there are no bulls in the market,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment officer of Rhodes Analytics in Boston, ''the market hits a bottom.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INFLATION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Public Opinion; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; United States Economy

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



379 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: It's Moore's Law, But Another Had The Idea First

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 17 

 BODY:
One of the cornerstones of Silicon Valley will mark an anniversary Tuesday. Forty years ago, Electronics magazine published Gordon E. Moore's celebrated article predicting that the number of transistors that could be placed on a silicon chip would continue to double at regular intervals for the foreseeable future.
 Named Moore's Law several years later by the physicist Carver Mead, that simple observation has proven to be the bulwark of the world's most remarkable industry.
 Yet Mr. Moore was not the only one -- or even the first -- to observe the so-called scaling effect that has led to the exponential acceleration of computing power that is now expected to continue at least for the next decade. 
 Before Mr. Moore's magazine article precisely plotted the increase in the number of transistors on a chip, beginning with 1, the computer scientist Douglas C. Engelbart had made a similar observation at the very dawn of the integrated-circuit era. Mr. Moore had heard Mr. Engelbart lecture on the subject, possibly in 1960. 
 Mr. Engelbart would later be hailed as the inventor of the computer mouse as well as the leading developer of many technologies that underlie both the personal computer industry and the Internet.
 In a 2001 interview, Mr. Engelbart said that it was his thinking about the scaling down of circuits that gave him the confidence to move ahead with the design of an interactive computing system. 
 ''I was relieved because it wasn't as crazy as everyone thought,'' he said.
 Significantly, the two pioneers represent twin Silicon Valley cultures that have combined to create the digital economy. 
 Mr. Moore, who co-founded Intel, is an icon of the precise and perhaps narrower chip engineering discipline that today continues to progress by layering sheets of individual molecules, one on top of the other, and by making wires that are finer in diameter than a wavelength of light.
 ''Gordon was the classic engineer,'' said Craig Barrett, Intel's chief executive, who had just begun to teach engineering at Stanford University when Mr. Moore made his famous prediction. The chart that accompanied his article was a plot that showed just five data points over seven years and extrapolated out into the future as far as 1975, when a single chip would be able to hold as many as 65,000 transistors. Forty years later, memory chip capacity has gone far beyond one billion of the tiny switches.
 Mr. Engelbart, in contrast, was the architect of a passionately held view that computing could extend or ''augment'' the power of the human mind. His ideas were set out most clearly in 1968, in a famous demonstration in San Francisco of his Pentagon-financed Augment computing system. Many things were shown to the world for the first time, including the mouse, videoconferencing, interactive text editing, hypertext and networking -- basically the outlines of modern Internet-style computing. 
 Mr. Engelbart had an epiphany in 1950, in which he imagined what would decades later become today's Internet-connected PC. He set about building it. At the time he had no idea of how he would build such a machine, but it soon became clear that it would require a computer that did not yet exist.
 Later he was offered a job at Hewlett-Packard, but when he learned that the company had no plans to enter the computer business, he went to work instead at Stanford Research Institute, now SRI International.
 There he worked with a group of military-funded researchers who were attempting to build magnetic-based computing circuits. The military was interested in the technology because of its potential performance in outer space.
 With the invention of the integrated circuit in 1959, however, the group realized that its work would soon fall by the wayside.
 Thinking about the idea of miniaturized circuitry, Mr. Engelbart realized that it would scale down to vastly smaller sizes than the current electronic comments. He had that insight because earlier he had worked as an electronics technician in the wind tunnel at the Ames Research Center, a NASA laboratory in Mountain View, Calif. There, aerodynamicists made models and scaled them up into complete airplanes. 
 It was an easy conceptual leap to realize that integrated circuits would scale in the opposite direction. In 1959 he put his ideas into a paper, titled ''Microelectronics and the Art of Similitude.'' In February 1960, he traveled to the International Circuit Conference in Philadelphia. There he explained to his audience that as chips scaled down, the new microelectronic engineers would have to worry about changing constraints, just as aerodynamicists had to worry about the macroworld.
 One person who has a clear memory of Mr. Engelbart's description is Mr. Moore, although he does not remember whether he heard him speak in Philadelphia or elsewhere.
 ''The thing that I remember from it is his question if we would notice anything different if everything in the room was suddenly 10 times as large,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''He answered it by suggesting that the chandelier might fall.''
 Several historians pointed out that Mr. Engelbart's previous observation did nothing to detract from the significance of Mr. Moore's careful plotting of the trend.
 ''It still should be called Moore's Law rather than Engelbart's Law,'' said Michael Riordan, a historian of physics at the University of California, Santa Cruz. ''Science is still based on theory and experiment.''
 As for Mr. Engelbart, the 1959 paper convinced him that the Augmentation machine he envisioned would be possible, because computing would be plentiful in the future.
 He was one of the first to grasp the implications of the new technology. Years later he recalled in an interview that he told his Philadelphia audience, ''Boy, are there going to be surprises over there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gordon Moore held a silicon wafer at Intel's headquarters last month. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)
 Douglas Engelbart accepted an award from President Clinton in 2000. (Photo by SRI International)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); MEMORY CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (69%); DOCUMENT & TEXT PROCESSING (69%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (69%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Computer Chips; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: Gordon E Moore; Douglas C Engelbart; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



380 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Discerning a New Course For World's Donor Nations

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17 

 BODY:
As the spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund ended Sunday, James D. Wolfensohn, who will soon retire as the bank's president, sought to put the lack of concrete progress on global poverty initiatives in a hopeful light.
 The gathering of ministers here was akin to an opera overture, he said. ''The arias are going to be sung by the stars, the leaders of the countries,'' said Mr. Wolfensohn, a cellist with a penchant for musical analogies. 
 The next opportunity to reach anti-poverty agreements is likely to be in July, when leaders of the wealthiest nations meet in Scotland, or then in September, at an assembly of the United Nations. 
 In recent months, the World Bank and the I.M.F., as well as Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and two commissions, have been reading from the same page, calling for a doubling of aid for the poorest countries. But large uncertainties underlie what many are depicting as a growing consensus on the need for such increases in financial support. Perhaps the most important is that the United States has not joined this chorus.
 Deepening the mystery are unknowns about the direction the World Bank will take when President Bush's choice, Paul D. Wolfowitz, who as deputy defense secretary was an architect of the invasion of Iraq and had a reputation as a hawk, takes over on June 1. Mr. Wolfowitz has yet to explain publicly his views on the ideologically charged issues of development that will shape the bank, which in turn influences policies in dozens of countries through its thousands of economists, agronomists and other specialists.
 Questions swirl. Will Mr. Wolfowitz, like Mr. Wolfensohn, champion increased aid and use his influence with the White House to win larger appropriations? In an era when the United States is preoccupied with terrorism, will he try to shift the bank's focus to developing countries where Islamic fundamentalism is viewed as a threat and channel more aid to American allies like Pakistan? Will he be an advocate of the American view on issues like debt relief, family planning and trade reform, or a broker among the rich nations?
 Mr. Wolfowitz has so far spoken mainly in generalities about his determination to fight poverty and serve the international community. Mr. Wolfensohn said that in conversations with his successor, ''He has shown absolutely no evidence to me of any politically motivated direction, and I say that quite honestly.'' 
 Lately Mr. Wolfowitz has been working to reassure leaders from Europe and developing countries that he is passionate about fighting poverty and cares about Africa. He made an appearance on Friday on his lunch hour at a presentation of Mr. Blair's commission on Africa here in Washington, took away a copy of its report and praised its work. 
 ''He's listening,'' said Nick Stern, the commission's research director and a former chief economist at the World Bank. ''We're very happy Africa is at the center of his thoughts.''
 Mr. Wolfowitz has told Mr. Wolfensohn that his first trip as bank president will be to Africa. And he has been plowing through stacks of material on bank operations. ''He says it's putting him to sleep every night,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said in an observation that may be more a comment on the liveliness of bank prose.
 Nigeria's finance minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is leading efforts to combat corruption in her country, Africa's most populous, said she was encouraged by what Mr. Wolfowitz said when he called recently.
 ''Most African finance ministers and policy makers are worried about a shift in attention to other issues,'' she said. ''Will the Mideast become the center of attention and Africa be shoved to the background? He was very careful to assure me that while he's very interested in the Mideast, he realizes the challenge of poverty reduction lies in Africa.''
 This year is considered pivotal in efforts to achieve the poverty reduction goals set by world leaders in 2000. The deadline they established was 2015. And Africa, where the number of people in extreme poverty has doubled since 1981, to more than 300 million, is furthest behind.
 The anxiety expressed by Mr. Blair and Mr. Wolfensohn, among others, is that the rich countries' commitments to poor countries will not match the scale of Africa's crisis.
 Already, foreign aid is rising. Statistics released last week show that rich-country giving has begun to climb out of the hole it plunged into during the 1990's, when it was at its lowest point in more than a generation.
 And there is an optimism about what the money can accomplish. American assistance to developing countries has risen in the Bush years to 16 cents of every $100 of gross national income, versus 10 cents at the end of the Clinton administration. And American aid to Africa has almost tripled.
 Still, last year the United States gave almost as much development assistance to Iraq, population 25 million, as it did to all of Africa, population about 700 million, according to Steven Radelet, senior fellow at the Center for Global Development in Washington. He calculated American aid to Africa totaled less than $5 a year per African, ''about the same as what many Americans spend each morning for coffee and a bran muffin.''
 While the United States is still the largest donor to poor countries, in terms of national income it stands next to last among donors, higher only than Italy.
 A range of Western nations -- among them Britain, France, Spain and most recently Germany -- have laid out timetables to continue increasing the aid they donate over the coming decade to reach 70 cents per $100 of national income. 
 The United States has pointedly refused to commit itself to such targets.
 The differences in approach are not limited to aid. The United States and Europe failed to reach a compromise on Saturday at meetings of rich-country finance ministers on $40 billion in relief to poor countries for what they owe the World Bank and the African Development Bank. The reasons may portend trouble for British hopes of coming out of the Scotland summit meeting with what Gordon Brown, Britain's finance minister, has called a Marshall Plan for Africa.
 Britain favors debt relief, but wants rich countries to make up what the World Bank and its African counterpart would lose in loan repayments so anti-poverty lending does not shrink. The United States wants to cancel the debts without promising any extra money.
 ''Everyone knows where the trenches are in this battle,'' said Kevin Watkins, director of the Human Development Report Office at the United Nations. ''But I don't think anyone's identified common ground on how to provide deeper debt relief.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Compared With Others, U.S. Lags in Giving''The amount of money the United States gives to developing countries in relation to its gross national income has dropped since 1960. Although the largest donor in volume terms, the United States is now near the bottom of the list of countries when giving is measured by percent of gross national income.AMOUNT GIVEN AS PERCENT OF GROSS NATIONAL INCOME, 2004Norway: 0.87%United States: 0.16%Italy: 0.15%United Nations target,: 0.7%All countries (listed above): 0.25%AMOUNT GIVEN AS PERCENT OF GROSS NATIONAL INCOME, 1960-20041960United States: 54%All countries: 51%2004United States: 16%All countries: 25%(Source by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); TERRORISM (62%); RELIGION (61%); AGRONOMY (50%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); TONY BLAIR (77%) Celia W Dugger; George W (Pres) Bush; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); IRAQ (79%) Africa; Great Britain; Africa

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



381 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Both Parties Try to Untangle Kerrey's Intent in Mayor's Race

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Thrown off balance by former United States Senator Bob Kerrey's musings about whether to run for mayor, New York politicians struggled yesterday to gauge his seriousness, while aides to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg expressed bewilderment with Mr. Kerrey's motives. 
 Publicly at least, the Democratic candidates for mayor reacted with caution to Mr. Kerrey's comment on Saturday that he was disillusioned with Mr. Bloomberg and was considering getting into the race himself. Mr. Kerrey, a Democrat who is president of New School University, said he would make a final decision in the next few days. 
 Aides to several candidates said privately that they were torn between concern about Mr. Kerrey's intentions and a desire not to be seen attacking a major figure in the national party. The candidates' campaign organizations issued carefully crafted responses, but some campaign members were already whispering about potential liabilities for a Kerrey candidacy, like his admission four years ago that a unit he led in the Vietnam War had killed unarmed civilians.
 Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, released a statement saying, ''I agree with Bob Kerrey's criticism of Mayor Bloomberg, and that's the reason I'm running.'' Another candidate, Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council, said he ''has an enormous amount of respect for Bob Kerrey and agrees with'' some of his criticism of the mayor.
 Mr. Kerrey criticized Mr. Bloomberg in an interview with The New York Times on Saturday, saying that the mayor was not doing enough to secure a larger share of federal tax dollars for New York and that he was focusing too intently on a proposal for a new Jets stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. Specifically, he suggested that two of Mr. Bloomberg's predecessors, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Edward I. Koch, would have lobbied harder for changes to the alternative minimum tax, a provision of the federal tax code that has the effect of denying deductions for state and local taxes, which are high for New Yorkers.
 The sharpest response to Mr. Kerrey came from the Bloomberg camp, which did not hesitate to highlight what it viewed as his erratic attitude toward the mayor's race in recent weeks. Mr. Bloomberg was in Germany on Olympics business and not available for comment, but his aides said he was mystified by Mr. Kerrey's actions, and they provided new details of how Mr. Kerrey's support for the mayor unexpectedly curdled in the last few days.
 The aides, who spoke on the condition that they not be identified so as to avoid a public fight with Mr. Kerrey, said the former senator from Nebraska did not hesitate to accept Mr. Bloomberg's personal request about two weeks ago that he become chairman of Democrats for Bloomberg. That followed a meeting with William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director, and Robert B. Tierney, the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission chairman, where, the aides said, Mr. Kerrey spoke highly of the mayor and indicated that he would be willing to assist the re-election campaign.
 Even when word began to circulate on Friday that Mr. Kerrey might be considering a run, mayoral aides said that after a conversation he had with Mr. Cunningham, they had the impression that he probably would not enter the race. 
 Yesterday, several aides said they did not doubt that Mr. Kerrey might very well run. But while they said they believed that his explanation for how he came to his decision was sincere -- he said he had been filling out his own tax return when it occurred to him that the mayor had not done enough to lobby Washington for a larger share of federal money -- they doubted that it would be an effective rationale for a candidacy.
 Mr. Bloomberg was in Washington just last week to discuss tax policy with, among others, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate Finance Committee, a panel on which Mr. Kerrey once sat. And the setting of federal tax policy is the purview of federal officeholders, not the mayor of New York.
 ''If he's concerned about the alternative minimum tax, he should try to get his seat back on the Senate Finance Committee,'' said Kevin Sheekey, the mayor's chief strategist. 
 Noting that Mr. Kerrey said in the interview Saturday that he believed Mr. Bloomberg had been ''gutsy'' in taking over the school system and successful in soothing race relations, Mr. Sheekey added, ''He praised his leadership on the most important issues facing the city.''
 Mr. Sheekey also said he believed an article in the new issue of Time magazine naming Mr. Bloomberg one of the nation's five best mayors -- citing his stewardship of the city budget and economy -- would squelch much of Mr. Kerrey's criticism. 
 Mr. Kerrey was unavailable for further comment yesterday, a spokesman said, leaving politicians and strategists on both sides to speculate about the likelihood, and practical problems, of a Kerrey candidacy.
 Before facing Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Kerrey would have to win the Democratic primary, and that is no easy task for a white candidate from out of town with no obvious base in a city of so many racial minorities. 
 In addition to Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Miller, two other Democratic candidates are C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, and Representative Anthony D. Weiner. Faced with the same option four years ago, Mr. Bloomberg, a lifelong Democrat, decided to change his party registration and run as a Republican, and to this day says openly that he is not sure he would have been able to win a Democratic primary that year.
 A strategist for one of the Democratic candidates said Mr. Kerrey's prominence might make it easier for him to raise money nationally.
 ''But New York tribal and ethnic politics being what they are,'' the strategist said, ''it would be a challenge for someone like Kerrey to come in at this late hour and cobble together the party support he needs on the ground to make it work.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LOBBYING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); VIETNAM WAR (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



382 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: A Pipeline to Peace

BYLINE: By George Perkovich and Revati Prasad. 
George Perkovich is the vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Revati Prasad is a junior fellow there.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
INDIA's foreign minister visited Washington last week and met with President Bush, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and other top officials to discuss a range of mutual interests, from countering China's strategic clout to promoting economic growth and resolving tensions between India and Pakistan. Unfortunately, the Bush administration's obsession with Iran threatens to block a major initiative that could advance many of those goals. 
 India and Pakistan are trying to overcome decades of mistrust by cooperating on a pipeline that would bring natural gas from Iran through Pakistan to India. It is the sort of economically necessary, environmentally friendly and security-enhancing initiative that the United States has long advocated. Yet the administration and Congress are so fixated on pressuring Iran that they would threaten sanctions against any foreign entity that participates in this win-win project between two bitter antagonists. 
 The 1,625-mile pipeline would originate in Iran's South Pars gas field and traverse southwest Pakistan to the Indian border, where India would then construct a line to bring the gas to energy-starved western India. The $4 billion pipeline would be the most economical way to get natural gas from the Persian Gulf to India. No American financing is needed to make it happen.
 India is desperate for new sources of energy; its strong economic growth will stall without it. Pakistan would probably reap $600 million to $700 million annually in transit fees from the pipeline, which would also bring jobs to the restive regions of Baluchistan and Sind. For its part, Iran has agreed to provide $200 million for development in Pakistan and to establish a Pakistan-Iran investment company to improve bilateral investment. 
 Beyond the obvious economic benefits, the pipeline would reduce the risk of conflict between India and Pakistan. As Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz of Pakistan, a former Citigroup executive, explained, ''If we do this pipeline and it does take off, I sincerely believe India-Pakistan relations will move forward in the right direction.'' Indian officials, while concerned that Pakistani governments will not always keep the gas flowing, judge the economic and strategic gains to be worth the risk.
 The pipeline would also have environmental benefits. Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, and a steady supply of it to India would help slow carbon emissions that would otherwise contribute to global warming. 
 The Bush administration objects because it believes that economic pain can compel Iran to abandon its efforts to acquire nuclear weapons and will, ultimately, drive the cleric-led government from power. But 26 years of sanctions and pressure have achieved neither objective; indeed, they may have convinced many Iranians that only nuclear technology can protect their country against American hostility. 
 Democrats and Republicans alike, especially in Congress, have consistently misdiagnosed Iran's political dynamics. Nationalism has largely supplanted revolutionary religious fervor in Iran, and American pressure only feeds it. Iranians from across the political spectrum are convinced that the United States aims to keep their nation down, as payback for the hostage crisis and the 1979 revolution. Blocking the pipeline would continue that counterproductive trend. 
 Moreover, Washington can't have it both ways. We can't argue that Iran does not need nuclear energy because it has the world's second largest reserves of natural gas and then block Iran's investments in its gas industry. To wean Iran from its nuclear program, including its pursuit of uranium enrichment facilities that could be used to produce weapons, Washington must convince Iranians that the United States supports their peaceful economic development.
 The Bush administration threatens to compound the negative impact of its opposition to the pipeline by supplying India with new nuclear reactors as an alternative -- a proposal that would go against existing domestic laws and international nuclear nonproliferation guidelines. Such a unilateral and mercantile move would incense Canada, Germany, Japan and other countries that the United States has pressured not to sell nuclear technology to countries like India that don't accept international safeguards. 
 In effect, the administration would be trying to block Iran's nuclear ambitions by rewarding India's, thereby undermining the global support needed for tougher nonproliferation rules both now and in the future. 
 The wisest solution is the simplest one here. All the United States has to do is stay out of the way and let market forces and regional security interests take over. A pipeline that is good for India, Pakistan and -- God forbid -- Iran will be good for America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); RELIGION (60%) Gas (Fuel); Pipelines; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%) George Perkovich; Revati Prasad; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); GULF STATES (57%) Iran; Pakistan; India

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005



383 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; La Sierra Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Where Violence Reigned, Camera Has Compassion

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: LA SIERRA, Colombia 

 BODY:
To many in this class-conscious country, this hillside slum high over Medellin is known only as a violent outpost in Colombia's war, a place populated by gangsterlike paramilitary gunmen, soulless prostitutes and poor people with no hopes or dreams.
 But on a recent sunny afternoon, amid the simple cinder-block homes and impossibly steep alleyways, the people of La Sierra could look in a mirror held up by two outsiders and see something different -- tragic, to be sure, but a bit more human. 
 On that day two filmmakers, an American and a Colombian who spent a year documenting the lives of La Sierra's paramilitaries, returned to show their film to a packed church. The two, Scott Dalton, a Texas-born photographer, and Margarita Martinez, a Colombian writer, had no idea how it would be received. The film contained raw scenes of combat and featured paramilitary fighters openly admitting to homicides. 
 But when the emotional 95 minutes ended, mothers and teenage girls wept, applause filled Santa Maria de La Sierra Church, and the young gunmen who were the protagonists nodded their heads in quiet approval.
 ''This shows our reality, not like most people think,'' said Byron Rios, 22, a former paramilitary member who appears in the film. ''It is like a soap opera of poor people. All the ones people ever see are of rich people.''
 One young former gunman, Jesus Martinez, 22, said, ''I think even our dead comrades would have liked seeing it.''
 The film, ''La Sierra,'' has won prizes at the Angelika Film Center in Manhattan and the Miami International Film Festival. It is to be shown this week at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival in Toronto, and next month at the Seattle International Film Festival. An 84-minute version is also scheduled for three screenings in June at the Walter Reade Theater at Lincoln Center.
 With no narration, the story is told by the film's subjects, who include a baby-faced commander named Edison Florez and a 17-year-old girl, Cielo Munoz . The scenes of young men preparing for combat and dodging gunfire are unflinching. 
 It was shot two years ago, at the height of combat in Medellin's slums between right-wing paramilitary gunmen and leftist guerrillas. The fighting here has since subsided, under a truce arranged while the film was being made. But the poverty and a fear of renewed violence remain.
 During the war, the gunmen here worked for a right-wing group and were determined to kill off leftists entrenched in a neighboring barrio. But the film avoids dwelling on the political stakes, focusing rather on the intimate and ordinary lives of paramilitary fighters, their girlfriends and families. Those lives are shown to be mundane, bittersweet, even comic at times. 
 ''We've covered massacres and so much crime committed by the paramilitaries that you see them as monsters,'' said Ms. Martinez, 35, a journalist. ''But you're in their homes, seeing their lifestyle, the lack of opportunities, then you don't judge anymore.''
 In Colombia, of course, the right-wing paramilitary leaders for whom these young people fight are considered cocaine kingpins responsible for thousands of deaths. Top commanders live free from interference on sprawling ranches; since late last year, they too have been disarming -- in a deal with the government that human rights groups say will grant them virtual impunity.
 The foot soldiers, in contrast, lead lives surrounded by poverty and come across more like Los Angeles street hoods, fighting for no ideological reason but simply because it is what young men in their barrio do.
 In the film, Cielo Munoz, a widow at 15, visits her new boyfriend in prison and sells candy from a bus. Jesus Martinez, who lost a hand when a homemade grenade exploded, says violence is ''my destiny.''
 Viewers also meet Pirulu, a pint-sized boy who lugs ammunition for the fighters, and the hard-working, religious father of a leading paramilitary commander. A shopkeeper sums up the fighting, ''The guys from there kill the guys from here because they're from here, and the guys from here kill the guys from there because they're from there.''
 The main character, Edison Florez, 22, in one poignant scene, says he would have liked to be a civil engineer, winning the respect of neighbors who would refer to him as ''doctor.''
 ''The movie shows that people here can dream, that they can love, that they can feel, that they are like any other person,'' said Yasmin Garcia, 18, who had a son with Mr. Florez. ''Just because they have guns doesn't mean they are just evil.''
 But tragedy is never far away. 
 In the midst of filming, government troops on patrol shot Mr. Florez dead. Mr. Dalton's camera shows his lifeless body lying on the street.
 Because of the painful footage, the filmmakers screened the film for Mr. Florez's family first, showing it on a banged-up television in their home. The family, clutching each other, wailed in grief from the moment Mr. Florez spoke to the camera.
 His parents and siblings insisted on remembering him as a loving father who went by the nickname ''the doll.'' 
 ''I thought it would hit me hard, make me sick, but I was so happy to see him talking,'' said his mother, Lisidia Florez, 46, wiping tears. ''For us, he is still alive.''
 Hours later, the family joined 200 residents who crowded into La Sierra's airy church, watching the film on a big-screen television.
 There were, to be sure, complaints. One former paramilitary fighter, Edwin Andrews Velasquez, 25, said the film ''needed more action,'' explaining that the barrio was more violent than it had been portrayed.
 But La Sierra is far different today from what it used to be. After the truce in 2003, the violence began to wane. But there is still widespread concern that former fighters, with little to do and few economic prospects, will descend into banditry.
 That prompted the Rev. Jaime Bravo, the Catholic priest here, to say that he hoped the film would ''show how this society is and hopefully touch the hearts of those in power so they do something about this.''
 ''Our problem,'' he said, ''is that poverty does not have a voice.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A still, left, from ''La Sierra'' showing Edison Florez, a paramilitary who was later killed, and a girlfriend, Yasmin, caring for their child. His sisters, center above, consoled each other at the film's showing in the slum. (Photo by Paul Smith for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Scott Dalton)Map of Colombia highlighting La Sierra: A film by outsiders documents the lives of La Sierra's paramilitaries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); WRITERS (68%); HOMICIDE (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Juan Forero; Scott Dalton; Margarita Martinez

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (53%) Colombia; La Sierra (Colombia); Colombia

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



384 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: For Business Travelers, Fees and Taxes Everywhere 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT. 
Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
The $39 parking charge at San Francisco's expensive Westin St. Francis hotel did not faze Veronica St. Claire, a business traveler who is instinctively wary of extra fees wherever she goes. But when the hotel added a $5.46-a-night bed tax to the parking charge on a recent visit, she felt ambushed.
 ''I told the desk clerk, 'I don't recall sleeping in my car,''' said Ms. St. Claire, the chief executive of a nonprofit organization for retirees in Los Angeles. The hotel employee replied that the city had recently extended its 14 percent occupancy tax on parking, too. Although the St. Francis maintains it notifies guests of the tax, she says she was ''astonished'' when she saw it on her bill. 
 Unusual or exorbitant add-ons to bills have always been a way of life for frequent travelers. But the fees normally ebb and flow, tempered by economic cycles and consumer sentiment. After the terrorist attacks, for example, many egregious surcharges vanished. Now that they are making a strong comeback, business travelers are feeling more put-upon than they have in years. 
 And they are noticing a new intransigence when they try to have unusual charges waived. Bob Cohen, who runs a record-promotions company in Oak Park, Mich., certainly got nowhere. On a visit to the Hyatt Regency in Long Beach, Calif., for a music education convention, Mr. Cohen sponsored a hospitality suite for delegates. A friend had donated several cases of beer from his microbrewery for the occasion. However, the hotel refused to deliver the boxes to his suite until he agreed to pay a $120 corking fee. Then it added a $15 delivery fee, which he says he didn't discover until he checked out. 
 ''No one told me about the fee,'' he said. ''It was never disclosed anywhere.'' 
 Cheryl Phelps, the vice president and managing director for the hotel, disagreed. ''The delivery charge is disclosed on all of our menus,'' she said, ''and we only charge a corkage fee when you bring in your own beer or wine.'' 
 In the past, a dissatisfied guest had at least a fighting chance to get such unanticipated fees removed. And given that he is a frequent guest with the hotel chain and that he was already paying more than $800 in room charges, he figured the odds were on his side. He was wrong. First, he said, a hotel representative insisted that the state of California required the corking fee (it does not) and then the hotel gave him the cold shoulder, ignoring calls and e-mail messages appealing the fee. 
 While the industry's creative billing is aimed at anyone who hits the road, business travelers -- and their employers -- are disproportionate victims, in large part because they account for a disproportionately large part of travel spending. While they make up only 18 percent of all domestic travel, they account for 31 percent of overall travel spending, according to the National Business Travel Association, a trade group that represents corporate travel managers. 
 Moreover, many of the fees are for services that would not be used by leisure travelers, and are charged mainly by business class hotels, where vacationers normally do not stay. 
 No single organization tracks all the surcharges, probably because the task would be far too complex and time-consuming. But during the last year, the tax-and-fee burden on corporate travelers has increased ''significantly,'' pushing corporate travel and entertainment expenses higher, according to the Caleb Tiller, a spokesman for the organization. 
 ''We only know that it is growing, and that companies are aware of it, and they aren't happy about it,'' Mr. Tiller said. In San Francisco, where two-thirds of travelers are on business, the 14 percent bed tax that Ms. St. Claire was hit with is not new. But last year the city instructed hotels to broaden the levy to include its parking and meeting room charges, starting in 2005. ''They were closing a loophole,'' said Laurie Armstrong, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Convention & Visitors Bureau. 
 It seems that fees are multiplying everywhere. Texas legislators have been considering a measure to raise hotel taxes in Dallas to 18 percent, from 15 percent, to pay for more police. The city's occupancy taxes would surpass Houston's 17 percent levy to become the highest in the nation. 
 Meantime, Anchorage, Alaska, increased its bed tax this month to 12 percent, from 8 percent, to finance a new convention center. And in February, Las Vegas approved a 2 percent tax on car rentals, joining a long list of other cities and counties that tax drivers. (A Travelocity survey found that car rental customers at airports pay an average 25.8 percent of the base price in taxes and surcharges.)
 Even the federal government views travelers as a reliable revenue source. 
 President Bush's proposed 2006 budget would increase security fees to a maximum of $8 a ticket, from a current $5 limit, a move that business travel advocates are opposing. In early March, the State Department added a $12 ''security surcharge'' to passports. 
 ''Business travelers are a fee-slapped bunch,'' said Donald Groff, who publishes the consumer travel Web site dgroff.com. 
 Often, surprise surcharges fall on captive customers. When Amy Engelhardt tried to check a bag curbside at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport recently, an agent told her there was a new $2-a-bag fee to use the curbside service. ''I couldn't get in line and wait with everyone else, so I paid it,'' she said, rather than risk missing her flight back to Los Angeles. 
 The airline, United, was testing the $2 ''Check & Go'' service and has since expanded the test to other airports.
 Ms. Engelhardt, a vocalist for an ensemble called the Bobs, shows signs of fee fatigue. ''Everywhere you go, there's a fee,'' she said. ''My airline wants $15 to book an award ticket on the phone. It wants $10 to talk with a ticket agent. After a while, I just come to expect the fees.'' 
 Business travelers marvel at the ingenuity of some the latest surcharges. When Kevin Moyer found that the fare on his airline ticket on American Airlines had dropped to $218 from $278, he asked to be credited for the difference, which he was entitled to under his carrier's terms and conditions. He did not know that the airline had instituted a new $100 reissue fee, which meant he was actually entitled to nothing. Because the charge is somewhat difficult to understand, few people took notice when American introduced it late last year. 
 But Mr. Moyer, a regional sales manager in Dallas for Royal Crown Derby Porcelain Company, was furious. ''I just think airlines are looking for every angle, for every nickel of revenue,'' he said. 
 Some industry insiders say the compulsion to impose fees almost seems to be embedded in the travel industry. 
 ''You see it with hotels that offer a free morning paper but quietly add a charge to your bill,'' said Mr. Groff. ''You see it with properties that tack a $1 charge on your room bill for the safe you never use.'' 
 Ms. St. Claire says she understands that the travel industry has gone through rough times and is struggling to regain profitability. ''But what's the point of overbilling business travelers?'' she asked. ''After all, aren't we supposed to be their best customers?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Veronica St. Claire, a business traveler from California, was angered by a new tax on hotel parking in San Francisco. Other travelers object to a wide range of new fees imposed by hotels and airlines. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); BEER & ALE (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); TERRORISM (67%); BREWERIES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); MUSIC (50%) Travel and Vacations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation

COMPANY: WESTIN ST FRANCIS HOTEL (58%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



385 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: The Navy's Fleet of Tomorrow Is Mired in Politics of Yesterday

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
The Navy's new destroyer, the DD(X), is becoming so expensive that it may end up destroying itself. The Navy once wanted 24 of them. Now it thinks it can afford 5 -- if that.
 The price of the Navy's new ships, driven upward by old-school politics and the rusty machinery of American shipbuilding, may scuttle the Pentagon's plans for a 21st-century armada of high-technology aircraft carriers, destroyers and submarines.
 Shipbuilding costs ''have spiraled out of control,'' the Navy's top admiral, Vern Clark, told Congress last week, rising so high that ''we can't build the Navy that we believe that we need in the 21st century.'' 
 The first two DD(X)'s are now supposed to total $6.3 billion, according to confidential budget documents, up $1.5 billion. A new aircraft carrier, the CVN-21, is estimated at $13.7 billion, up $2 billion. The new Virginia-class submarine now costs $2.5 billion each, up $400 million. All these increases have materialized in the last six months.
 The Navy says it can make do with fewer big ships patrolling the oceans. It wants more fast boats and aircraft to fight offshore and upriver, a speedier force to counter terror. But Congress, seeking to sustain America's shipyards, wants as many big ships as possible.
 Admiral Clark, who plans to retire later this year, says both strategies could be sunk by soaring costs.
 Philip A. Dur, president of Northrop Grumman Ship Systems, the company primarily in charge of building the first DD(X) destroyer, defends the effort. ''No question, the cost of the ship is an issue,'' Mr. Dur said, though its costs would be justified by state-of-the-art weaponry. Its sophisticated systems would require crews of as few as 125, one-third the size of today's destroyers, and stealth technology would make the 14,000-ton ship appear no larger than a fishing boat on an enemy's radar. But the $3.3 billion to build the first ship ''is a big number,'' he said.
 The number became big, fast, because it was kept small at first. John J. Young Jr., the assistant Navy secretary in charge of buying new weapons, said that until recently Navy officials had knowingly ''underestimated the price'' of the DD(X) destroyer program. ''There's a motivation in this building to birth programs,'' he said, referring to Pentagon proposals to create big new weapons systems. ''People tend to understate their costs.''
 Political haggling may also add to the price. The Navy wants a winner-take-all competition to build the destroyers. But Congress wants to give one to Northrop Grumman's shipyard in Mississippi, the next to General Dynamics' yard in Maine, to share the wealth and ensure more money for the yards. 
 The dispute drags on. The Navy says the two-shipyard approach will add $300 million or more to the cost of each DD(X). The Navy now hopes to build five DD(X) destroyers, one a year, at a total cost of $20.6 billion, including research and development. But those plans are shaky.
 ''There is doubt right now among people in the Navy and industry about whether a significant number of DD(X) will be procured,'' said Ronald O'Rourke, a Congressional Research Service analyst, who obtained the previously undisclosed cost figures for the new destroyers from the Navy. 
 Unless the costs are controlled, some in the Navy and the shipbuilding industry say, the better alternative may be to finish none of them and skip to the next-generation destroyer. 
 ''The bottom line,'' Admiral Clark told lawmakers, ''is you can't have the Navy of your dreams with the mechanisms that we're using.''
 Military shipbuilding is a closed mechanism run by two contractors, Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics. Only they can produce the ships the Navy needs.
 Mr. Dur of Northrop Grumman calls military shipbuilding ''a unique economy.'' 
 Unique it is. Between them, the two contracting giants own the six remaining yards that can build American warships, in Maine, Connecticut, Virginia, Mississippi, Louisiana and California. They receive unstinting support from members of Congress representing those states; in turn, the contractors support thousands of smaller suppliers that are often the sole sources for what they make. 
 Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics do not really compete in the traditional sense, officials say, but share the billions that Congress gives them to build ships, along with benefits like the power to put off paying federal taxes on the profits.
 ''I don't think we really have competition today,'' Admiral Clark told Congress. ''I think we have apportionment. And I think all of the numbers are now clear that apportionment is costing us money.''
 The shipbuilding system's critics say it overlays aspects of 19th-century monopoly capitalism and 20th-century state socialism on top of 21st-century American politics.
 ''It's prehistoric,'' said Harlan K. Ullman, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research group in Washington that focuses on national security issues. ''It's an unbelievably regulated socialist industry, dominated by politics, not rational judgment. Because there is no competition, it's very difficult to get efficiencies. Admiral Clark is absolutely right. We cannot afford the ships we need because the system is so bloated. It's a monstrosity.''
 Mr. Dur of Northrop Grumman said that new ships' costs are going up because the number of ships the Navy wants is going down. Five years ago, the Navy foresaw a fleet as large as 375 warships. Now it says it may go as low as 260.
 Mr. Dur said his company invested in equipment and people, expecting the Navy to buy ships at a steady rate. When the Navy's plans ''change dramatically from year to year, the assumptions we make are radically altered,'' he said. ''That generates extraordinary costs.''
 If Congress and the Navy would steadily spend more money buying more ships, he said, the costs for each ship would shrink. 
 Senator Jim Talent, Republican of Missouri and chairman of the Armed Services Seapower subcommittee, agreed. To smooth out the process, he said, at least $3 billion or $4 billion more a year should be spent on shipbuilders, and ''if the costs still go up, then you can challenge them.''
 Michael W. Toner, executive vice president of General Dynamics Marine Systems, said ''the country's ability to design and build naval warships'' could be lost unless the Navy steadily builds more.
 ''Our fragility,'' he said, ''is due largely to the instability of the Navy's shipbuilding plans.''
 But Mr. Young, the assistant Navy secretary in charge of buying weapons, does not buy that argument.
 ''The shipbuilders' complaints about stability are way overstated,'' he said. ''If I gave you $30 and told you to eat lunch for a week, you'd find a way to do it. If I said, 'Eat lunch for a week and it costs whatever it costs,' things would come out different.''
 Shipbuilding executives ''don't work as hard as they should to control costs,'' he said. ''They don't work like an automaker facing competition from Japan.''
 The Navy now has 288 warships, the lowest number since before World War I. But comparing a modern aircraft carrier with an old dreadnought is meaningless. The Navy says military contractors and their advocates in Congress overstate the need to build more big ships. The advocates say the Navy underplays it to spend more on aircraft and sailors.
 A top-level Pentagon panel, the Defense Acquisition Board, will decide the fate of the new destroyer on April 29. As of now, Mr. Young said, ''we've mapped out a course that has, to everybody's anxiety, five DD(X).'' Five and counting.

Arsenal of the Future
 Articles in this series are periodically examining weapons of the future. Previous articles are online at nytimes.com/business. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a DD(X) destroyer. (Photo by Northrop Grumman)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Navy's Soaring Ship Costs''The price of new warships is soaring to two or three times what the Navy currently spends on building a ship, costs the Navy says cannot be solely explained by the requirements of new technology or increased complexity.1967DESTROYERSCost to build a guided missile destroyer in the Charles F. Adams class.In 2005 dollars -- $515 millionAIRCRAFT CARRIERSCost of the carrier Nimitz, authorized in 1967 and finished in 1975.In 2005 dollars -- $3.0 billion2005DESTROYERCost to build a guided missile destroyer in the Arleigh Burke class. Three were ordered this year
 the last will be delivered in 2010.In 2005 dollars -- $1.1 billionAIRCRAFT CARRIERSCurrent cost of the George H.W. Bush, the 10th Nimitz-class carrier, started in 2001 to be finished in 2008.In 2005 dollars -- $6.1 billionProjected costsDESTROYERSEstimated cost of the first new DD(X) destroyer.In 2005 dollars -- $3.3 billionAIRCRAFT CARRIERSThe Navy's projected cost for the new CVN-21-class aircraft carrier, to be delivered about 2013.In 2005 dollars -- $13.7 billionThe new carrier the Navy wants, below, could be more than four times as expensive as the Nimitz and twice the cost of its carrier currently under construction.(Source by U.S. Navy)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVAL VESSELS (92%); MILITARY VESSELS (91%); NAVIES (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); BUDGETS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%) Ships and Shipping ; Surveys and Series; United States Armament and Defense; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ships and Shipping ; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%) Northrop Grumman Corp; General Dynamics Corp

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (56%) Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



386 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: As America Gets Bigger, The World Does, Too

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
It's no secret that Americans are overweight. But obesity is a growing problem worldwide, even in countries whose populations have in the past been enviably lean, as new research reports make clear.
 In China, for example, about 18 million adults are obese and another 137 million are overweight, according to a study of 16,000 people published last week in The Lancet. Another report, in The New England Journal of Medicine, noted that in developing countries, ''as many as 60 percent of households with an underweight family member also have an overweight one.''
 In a recent report, the World Health Organization warned of ''an escalating global epidemic of overweight and obesity -- 'globesity.''' 
 ''In 1995, there were an estimated 200 million obese adults worldwide and another 18 million under-5 children classified as overweight,'' the report said. ''As of 2000, the number of obese adults has increased to over 300 million.''
 The W.H.O. finds itself struggling to develop a global strategy to counter obesity, even as it tries to combat the hunger and undernutrition that remain a major concern in much of the world. In the next few years, the organization estimates, noncommunicable diseases that are related to diet, physical inactivity and consequent obesity, like heart disease, stroke, diabetes and hypertension, will become the principal causes of disease and death globally.
 The organization's International Obesity Task Force, whose chairman is Dr. W. Philip T. James of London, maintains that different strategies will be needed in different countries, but that failing to develop effective national strategies will ultimately result in economically disastrous health crises. 
 The obesity issue is not limited to industrialized countries. ''In developing countries, it is estimated that over 115 million people suffer from obesity-related problems,'' the W.H.O. has noted.
 In fact, recently published data suggest that there is hardly a country in the world outside sub-Saharan Africa in which the average body-mass index, or B.M.I., an indication of fatness, has not been rising to levels that increase the risk of serious chronic diseases.
 In Asia, this rise in fatness, though hardly to the level that has occurred in the United States, is threatening to cause a major epidemic of Type 2 diabetes, according to information presented in Minneapolis last fall at an international symposium on obesity. The Lancet report found high rates of major risk factors for cardiovascular disease in Chinese adults.
 Worldwide, rising weight is becoming one of the most important risk factors for chronic disease and rising health care costs. 
 In the Britain, for example, obesity now accounts for 18 million sick days, 30,000 deaths a year, 9 lost years of life expectancy and an added annual cost of almost $1 billion to the National Health Service, Dr. Jacob C. Seidell, professor of nutrition and health at the Free University of Amsterdam, reported at the Minneapolis symposium.
 In many countries, the worst increases in obesity have occurred in young people. 
 While fewer than 1 percent of the children in Africa suffer from malnutrition, for example, 3 percent are overweight or obese, according to Dr. Francine Kaufman, a pediatric endocrinologist at Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
 Perhaps the most distressing data come from Asia, where the measure of being overweight used in Western counties may underestimate the seriousness of weight-related health problems faced by Asians.
 In Japan, for example, obesity is defined as an index level of 25 or more, not 30 as it is in Western countries. But Japanese health officials report that a B.M.I. of 25 or more is already causing high rates of diabetes. At a level of 30 or higher, most of the population would have diabetes, Japanese health officials told Dr. Seidell. 
 According to Dr. Kaufman, ''By 2010 more than half the people in the world with diabetes will be Asians.''
 Traditionally, in developing countries, the poorest people have been the thinnest, a consequence of hard physical labor and the consumption of small amounts of traditional foods. But when people in poor countries migrate to cities, obesity rates rise fastest among those in the lowest socioeconomic group, Dr. Seidell reported.
 Dr. Mickey Chopra, public health specialist at the University of Western Cape, South Africa, attributes the rise in obesity in middle-income and lower-income countries to dietary shifts ''toward highly refined foods and toward meat and dairy products containing high levels of saturated fats, together with reduced energy expenditure.''
 In other words, as people in developing countries trade their traditional diets, heavily based on vegetables and grains, for processed and animal foods, and expend less energy to move themselves and do their daily work, it is all too easy to overconsume calories.
 China is a prime example. Urbanization has led to changes in diet and increasingly sedentary lives, replete with sugary soft drinks, cheap vegetable oils, motorized vehicles and televisions in the home. In the last eight years, the proportion of Chinese men classified as overweight, with a body mass index over 25, has risen to 15 percent from 4 percent, and the proportion of overweight Chinese women has doubled to 20 percent from 10 percent.
 ''Dietary transitions that took more than five decades in Japan have occurred in less than two decades in China,'' Dr. Chopra wrote in The Bulletin of the World Health Organization. 
 He attributed this rapid shift largely to the growth of multinational food companies that have added sugar, fats and oils to agricultural products. The market value of these processed foods is now three times as great as the farm value, and foreign exports to countries like China represent a major source of income and growth for food producers.
 Similar trends have been noted elsewhere. ''Mexicans now drink more Coca-Cola than milk,'' Dr. Chopra noted.
 Dr. Adam Drewnowski, director of the Center for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington, said, ''Food is becoming globally cheaper, and what's becoming cheapest is calories,'' especially calories from sugar and fat. 
 In Brazil, for example, ''It costs a mere 4 cents to produce a pound of sugar,'' Dr. Drewnowski said. ''You can consume 50,000 empty sweet calories for just $1.'' 
 In Asia, he noted, foods are being ''drenched in oil.'' 
 Oil makes food taste better and people are ''naturally predisposed through evolution to select and consume energy-dense foods,'' he said.
 Since more nutritious, less energy-dense foods, like salads, fruits and vegetables, tend to be more expensive, to help stem the growing epidemic of global obesity, subsidies for vegetables and fruits and international campaigns to promote their consumption are needed, he said.
 At the same time that caloric consumption is rising, activity levels are falling. For example, Dr. Drewnowski said: ''In Vietnam 20 years ago, people got around on foot. Five years ago they used bicycles. Now they're using motorcycles and scooters, and five years from now these will be replaced by cars.''
 Dr. Shiriki Kumanyika, an epidemiologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said not enough attention was being paid to the decline in physical activity, especially in developing countries. As the amount of activity required for daily routines declines, she said, it is easy to miscalculate food intake by as much as 1,000 calories a day, especially for people in developing countries who migrate to urban areas where the cheapest foods are calorically dense.
 Still, Dr. Kumanyika told the symposium, rising levels of obesity worldwide cannot be blamed on just one or two factors. Certain global factors ''are difficult to control even at the national level,'' like the globalization of markets and industrial development, which changes how people earn a living and who produces foods and prepares meals, she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on April 19 about rising obesity around the world included an incomplete reference to obesity and malnutrition rates in Africa from the book ''Diabesity: The Obesity-Diabetes Epidemic That Threatens America and What We Must Do to Stop It,'' by Dr. Francine R. Kaufman. The article said 1 percent of African children are malnourished but 3 percent are overweight or obese; Dr. Kaufman says the book failed to mention that the data, from the International Obesity Task Force, were compiled in only a few areas and do not apply to all of Africa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DIABETES (87%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (78%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (78%); NUTRITION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); HYPERTENSION (71%); STROKES (70%); HEART DISEASE (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%) Weight; Research; Calories; Diet and Nutrition; Exercise; Life Styles; Weight

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%) New England Journal of Medicine

PERSON: Jane E Brody

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) MINNESOTA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



387 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Transit and Labor Groups Sue M.T.A. Over Railyards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A coalition of transit and labor advocates sued the Metropolitan Transportation Authority yesterday to stop the sale of development rights over the West Side railyards to the Jets so that the team can build a $2.2 billion football stadium.
 The suit by the four groups -- the Straphangers Campaign, Common Cause/NY, the Transport Workers Union Local 100 and the Tri-State Transportation Campaign -- said that a ''flawed and unlawful'' sales process had resulted in the authority's awarding the development rights to the Jets for $250 million, a price, they said, that shortchanged commuters.
 The suit compares the sale price with the authority's own appraisal, which put the value of the 13-acre parcel at $923 million, and accuses the authority of violating its legal and financial obligation to get the best price for the asset.
 Unlike a similar legal challenge filed earlier this month by a rival bidder, Cablevision, the new lawsuit asks the State Supreme Court to issue an order rejecting all the bids and to conduct a new auction. 
 ''We have no brief for the Jets or Cablevision,'' said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the Straphangers. ''We want top dollar. If we don't get a fair price for the yards, the loss will be taken out on the riding public in fewer new cars and buses, less repairs and eventually higher fares and poorer service.''
 Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum plans to file a similar lawsuit against the deal today, said her spokeswoman, Anat Jacobson. Two other lawsuits are challenging the stadium on environmental grounds.
 The project still requires approval by the Public Authorities Control Board.
 The sale is one element of a titanic battle over the stadium, which the Bloomberg administration contends is crucial in the city's bid for the 2012 Olympic Games and in sparking the redevelopment of the Far West Side.
 ''Hudson Yards redevelopment is about the economic future of New York City and about creating jobs for New Yorkers,'' said Jim Whelan, executive director of the Hudson Yards Coalition, which favors the stadium. ''Those who are filing these frivolous lawsuits must be confused, thinking that this plan is the full employment act for lawyers and judges.''
 Many neighborhood groups, the city's major civic organizations and some Broadway theater owners say that stadium traffic will clog already congested streets and repel development on adjacent blocks. Cablevision, the most vociferous and well-heeled opponent, owns Madison Square Garden and views the stadium as competition. The company's final offer for the property was $750 million.
 ''The sports and convention center means tens of thousands of jobs for New Yorkers,'' said Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor's office. 
 A transit authority spokesman, Tom Kelly, would not comment, saying the case would be argued in court.
 Mr. Russianoff said the lawsuit represented the entrance of a David in what has been a Goliath-versus-Goliath battle over the railyards, with taxpayers and transit riders left on the sidelines as the Jets and Cablevision slug it out.
 Transit groups were allied with the transit authority this spring in lobbying the State Legislature to provide the authority, which faced fare increases and service cuts, with more money. 
 But, the lawsuit says, on the same day that the Legislature raised taxes and fees and passed a budget to meet the authority's needs, the authority's board accepted the Jets bid, ''leaving over $700 million on the table.''
 After a year of exclusive talks with the authority, the Jets offered only $100 million for the property, which infuriated transit officials. Cablevision offered $600 million for the property at first, prompting the authority to open the bidding. 
 But, critics say, the agency gave potential buyers an unusually brief 27 days to submit an offer. In addition, some developers said the property was valuable but declined to bid because they did not want to infuriate Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); JUDGES (72%); MAYORS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); OLYMPICS (62%); THEATER (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Football; Suits and Litigation; Finances; Area Planning and Renewal; Stadiums and Arenas; Auctions; Football

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); COMMON CAUSE (58%) New York Jets; Cablevision Inc; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Betsy (Public Advocate) Gotbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



388 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Iran Looking East for Alliances on Oil

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran 

 BODY:
As it faces the threat of global sanctions from the United States and Europe because of suspicions that it is turning its nuclear program to weapons production, Iran is fighting back with a powerful weapon of its own: its vast oil and gas resources. 
 Iran's ruling clerics are meticulously arranging energy sales and building partnerships with influential countries, including China and India, as a way to win stronger friendships around the world. 
 The rising price of oil, nervousness in the energy markets and the scramble by fast-growing countries to secure their own access to oil supplies has lately played into Tehran's hand. 
 This renewed push to turn underground riches into political power complicates the Bush administration's attempt to isolate Iran, which holds 10 percent of the world's oil deposits and has the second-largest gas reserves. 
 High-profile talks with European negotiators continue over the future of its nuclear program, as does the threat of United Nations sanctions and American action in the background. 
 But in the meantime, Iran has approached China and India, two of the largest and most dynamic consumer markets, and promised them long-term supplies of gas and access to oil exploration. 
 In addition, Iran last year granted Japan, traditionally its largest customer in Asia, even greater access to oil.
 ''Iran wants to diversify its strategic alliances and is looking to the East,'' said Ali Ghezelbash, an oil analyst at Atieh Bahar Consulting, a business consultancy in Tehran. ''China and India are huge consumers of energy and could be very powerful allies for Iran on the international scene.'' 
 As American oil companies are barred from investing in Iran because of unilateral sanctions, Iran's policy is opening the door to their state-owned rivals in Asia to build up oil and gas reserves as a counterweight.
 There is no guarantee, though, that Iran's clients will necessarily turn into political allies. Moreover, Iran's ability to buy friendships is undermined by its own limitations. While the country pumps close to four million barrels of oil a day, it spends $2 billion each year to import fuel because of a lack of refining capacity. Then it spends another $3 billion to subsidize gasoline that is sold here at one of the lowest prices in the world -- 8 cents a liter, or about 30 cents a gallon.
 And nearly a third of Iran's production is unavailable for export because it is tied up in domestic consumption, where much of it is squandered by inefficient cars, badly insulated homes or wasteful industries. 
 ''Iran definitely has geology on its side,'' said Vincent Lauerman, the editor in chief of Geopolitics of Energy, an industry newsletter based in Calgary, Alberta. ''But if you look at the fields that are producing, these tend to be mature and declining.''
 Still, for all its problems, Tehran is definitely making progress in its geopolitical campaign. In January, Iran said it would provide India with liquefied natural gas for 25 years, an agreement valued at $40 billion. It also gave India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Company, ONGC, a 20 percent stake in the Yadavaran oil field, a 300,000 barrel-a-day project.
 That agreement came on the heels of a similar deal signed in October, a commitment to supply China with natural gas over 30 years that also granted China's state-owned oil company, Sinopec, a 50 percent stake in Yadavaran, which holds an estimated 3 billion barrels of oil reserves. This came with a potential value of $70 billion.
 Iran is also trying to persuade the strategic rivals India and Pakistan to agree to the construction of a $4 billion pipeline that would carry Iranian gas through Pakistan to India. 
 In the meantime, after years of fruitless talks, Inpex of Japan was granted a $2 billion development contract last year for the Azadegan field, Iran's largest discovery in the last three decades, with an estimated 26 billion barrels of reserves.
 ''It is very clear, for example in the case of China, that their energy interest in Iran gives them a stake in the game,'' said Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy based in New York. ''Their position is much more engaged here because of their energy policy.''
 Oil-rich countries, of course, have long used their resources to expand alliances, make new friends or punish adversaries. Nor is energy diplomacy something new for Iran; in the 1970's when the shah ruled Iran, the country was very active in using its oil to build up political support, particularly with the West.
 But Iran's Islamic regime is finding that its oil weapon can be a double-edged sword.
 With the bulk of the world's oil reserves concentrated in the Persian Gulf and production elsewhere slowly waning, Iran knows that it has time on its side.
 ''The world will be consuming growing amounts of oil and only five or six countries can supply this,'' said Mehdi Hashemi, a son of Iran's former president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who maintains ties with the oil ministry. ''Iran is one of them.'' 
 In 1995, Mr. Rafsanjani, who was president then, even tried to lure the United States into improving relations by granting Houston-based Conoco a $1 billion oil development deal.
 But the strategy backfired. Ten days after the announcement, President Clinton banned American companies from contributing to Iran's oil sector. 
 The following year, Congress passed the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act, which threatened penalties against American and non-American companies investing more than $20 million in Iran and Libya's energy sectors. 
 ''Whenever Iran has wanted to get closer to a country it has used its oil diplomacy,'' said Siamak Namazi, a managing director at Atieh Bahar, the Tehran consultancy. ''But the history of American-Iranian relations has been that when one opens the window, the other nails it shut.''
 Iran is counting on outside help to bolster its stagnating production. After nearly two decades of isolation, the clerical rulers of Iran have realized they cannot afford the massive expansion and modernization the industry needs without capital and expertise from abroad. 
 Since the mid-1990's, foreign investors, mainly European and Asian companies, have poured about $15 billion into Iran's oil and gas industry. But the country's energy resources remain tired and have never really recovered from the Islamic revolution of 1979.
 After the clerics toppled the shah, they cut their oil output by two-thirds to demonstrate their resolve to sever ties with the West; the Iranian industry then became a prime economic target in the eight-year war against Iraq. But when Iran signaled it was once again ready to open up access to foreigners, the United States imposed sanctions against its oil sector.
 From a peak production of six million barrels of oil a day in 1974, Iran's oil output slumped to two million barrels in the early 1980's, and has since stabilized at around four million barrels a day, or 5 percent of the world's output.
 ''Iran has obviously suffered from the departure of the expatriates, from sanctions, from poor management, and from political interference,'' said Manouchehr Takin, an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London.
 Iran's current expansion plans call for increasing oil production to 5.5 million barrels a day by 2010. But since fields have an annual rate of decline of 200,000 barrels a day, Iran actually needs to find an additional 2.5 million barrels a day -- as much as what neighboring Kuwait produces -- if it wants to meet its target.
 Given the country's restrictive investment rules and the tense political environment, foreign investors are not rushing in. Recently, Lord John Browne, the chief executive of BP, angered Iranian oil officials when he said that to do business with Iran at the moment would be ''offensive to the United States and therefore against BP's interests.''
 Energy has been at the center of Iranian politics ever since the first foreign concession was granted in 1901 to William Knox D'Arcy, an English businessman. It still holds a central part in the nation's recent history -- from the creation of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, the nationalization of the oil sector in 1951, and the CIA-led coup to topple the leftist prime minister, Mohammad Mossadegh, two years later.
 The question remains very much alive today in Iran, where foreign ownership of petroleum assets is constitutionally prohibited and where energy policy is vigorously debated in Parliament.
 ''It's true throughout the Middle East, but the public here is very emotional about the oil issue,'' Mr. Takin said. ''In Iran, the memories of the past are still very vivid.''
 But as with any high-stakes business, Iran's energy diplomacy is partly a bluff. For many oil executives here, the decisive coup would be, as it tried in 1995, to attract American companies back -- but this time lock them in.
 ''We've been in this business for over a hundred years,'' said Hossein Kazempour Ardebili, a senior adviser to Iran's foreign and oil ministries. ''Security of supplies is our bread and butter. If the United States is looking for security of supplies, Iran is an inevitable partner.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Neka oil terminal in the northern province of Mazandaran could help Iran increase refinery output from its vast oil and gas reserves. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C8)Chart/Map: ''Oil Diplomacy''Iran is seeking to strengthen ties with India and China through oil and gas deals.Graph tracks oil production and oil consumption in Iran and Saudi Arabia since 1960.Map of the earth highlighting Iran.(Source by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); POLITICS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (64%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Sales; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Reserves (Natural Resources)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; United Nations

PERSON: Jad Mouawad; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) ALBERTA, CANADA (50%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (92%); IRAN (88%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (50%) Iran; Europe; Iran; India; China; Japan; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



389 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: The Missing Energy Strategy

 BODY:
The House is moving quickly and with sad predictability toward approval of yet another energy bill heavily weighted in favor of the oil, gas and coal industries. In due course the Senate may give the country something better. But unless Mr. Bush rapidly elevates the discussion, any bill that emerges from Congress is almost certain to fall short of the creative strategies needed to confront the two great energy-related issues of the age: the country's increasing dependency on imported oil, and global warming, which is caused chiefly by the very fuels the bill so generously subsidizes.
 What's maddening about this is that there is no shortage of ideas about what to do. Step outside the White House and Congress, and one hears a chorus of voices begging for something far more robust and forward-looking than the trivialities of this energy bill. It is a strikingly bipartisan chorus, too, embracing environmentalists, foreign policy hawks and other unlikely allies. Last month, for instance, a group of military and intelligence experts who cut their teeth on the cold war -- among them Robert McFarlane, James Woolsey and Frank Gaffney Jr. -- implored Mr. Bush as a matter of national security to undertake a crash program to reduce the consumption of oil in the United States. 
 The consensus on the need for a more stable energy future is matched by an emerging consensus on how to get there. In the last two years, there have been three major reports remarkable for their clarity and convergence, from the Energy Future Coalition, a group of officials from the Clinton and the first Bush administrations; the Rocky Mountain Institute, which concerns itself with energy efficiency; and, most recently, the National Commission on Energy Policy, a group of heavyweights from academia, business and labor. 
 Homage is paid to stronger fuel economy standards, which Congress has steadfastly resisted. But all three reports also call for major tax subsidies and loan guarantees to help Detroit develop a new generation of vehicles, as well as an aggressive bio-fuels program to develop substitutes for gasoline.
 The main virtue of moving to more efficient vehicles is that they would reduce oil imports (transportation accounts for two-thirds of the oil that Americans consume). But they would also reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, the main cause of global warming. Here is another issue where the rest of the world seems to be rushing past Mr. Bush. In January, Europe imposed emission quotas on thousands of power plants and other industrial sites in an effort to meet its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, the international agreement repudiated by Mr. Bush in 2001. And last week, Canada unveiled its own strategy for meeting its commitments by cutting emissions from power plants and automobiles. 
 Closer to home, this page has already noted the growing number of global warming initiatives at the state level. They include California's aggressive plan to limit carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles, and efforts by Gov. George Pataki of New York to organize a consortium of Northeastern states to begin reducing power-plant emissions.
 Even the coal-fired utilities, the companies Mr. Bush sought to protect by rejecting the emissions targets specified in the Kyoto Protocol, are getting religion. The most recent convert is Cinergy, a powerful Midwestern utility that now seems willing to accept mandatory caps on emissions and to put money into advanced ''clean coal'' technologies.
 Yet no company, and no state, can go it alone. Changing the way this country produces and uses energy will require a determined national effort organized by the president, but Mr. Bush, so far, has been content to remain at the rear of a parade he ought to be leading. It will also require a far more adventurous approach from a Congress whose solicitude for special interests has greatly exceeded its concern for the national interest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); COLD WAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); BIOFUELS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



390 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: FleetBoston Acquisition Lifts Bank of America's Earnings

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Bank of America Corporation, the nation's third-largest bank, said yesterday that its first-quarter earnings rose 75 percent to a record as corporate lending and trading and the purchase of the FleetBoston Financial Corporation bolstered results.
 Net income increased to $4.7 billion, or $1.14 a share, from $2.68 billion, or 91 cents a share, a year earlier, when Bank of America did not yet own FleetBoston. The results gave the company 14 consecutive quarters of earnings increases. 
 Bank of America's trading profit rose to $760 million from $3 million in the first quarter of last year, benefiting from a surge in trading that mirrored gains reported by Wall Street firms last month. Profit growth may slow in the second quarter, when the comparison will reflect the $48 billion FleetBoston purchase, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 ''There were a lot of good things in the quarter but more than half of the earnings increase was due to nonrecurring events,'' said Richard Bove, an analyst at Punk Ziegel & Company. ''None of that, you would argue, is sustainable.''
 The bank, which is spending more than $600 million to expand its securities business, set aside $126 million less in the quarter for loan losses than in the fourth quarter of 2004, and reduced expenses to below 50 cents per $1 of revenue.
 The net income of Bank of America's large-business unit rose 92 percent, to $1.1 billion, as corporate lending increased in the Northeastern United States, where FleetBoston was based. Revenue in the unit advanced 74 percent to $2.7 billion.
 ''We saw the strongest commercial loan growth in many quarters across our company and deposit growth continues to be robust,'' Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive, said in a statement. Loans and leases increased 40 percent, to $525 billion, and deposits grew 48 percent, to $627.4 billion.
 Investment banking set records in profit and revenue. Net income in the unit rose 59 percent, to $721 million, as revenue from underwriting and merger advice increased 21 percent, to $2.6 billion. ''This was primarily due to increases in trading profits, led by sales of interest-rate products, equities and strong portfolio management,'' the bank said.
 Shares of Bank of America, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., rose 45 cents, to $44.73, yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); MERGERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Company Reports ; Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corp; Fleetboston Financial Corp

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); LTS (NYSE MKT) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



391 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Singapore, Courting Tourists, Allows Casinos

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 18 

 BODY:
Singapore said Monday that it would legalize casinos to allow the construction of two Las Vegas-style resorts, overruling public opposition in an effort to increase tourism and temper its famous prudishness with a willingness to gamble on innovation.
 Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong told the country's Parliament that the Cabinet had decided to lift the city-state's ban on casino gambling. The announcement ended a year of uncharacteristically vigorous public debate in a country governed by the same political party since 1965. Singapore plans to award licenses to build the two casinos, which it estimates will entail roughly $3 billion in investment, by the end of next year. 
 The hope is that introducing casinos will enable Singapore to attract more tourists from China by appealing to the traditional ethnic Chinese enthusiasm for gambling. China is now one of the largest and fastest-growing sources of tourist arrivals to Singapore, but competition is mounting, particularly from Thailand.
 More broadly, however, the casinos are part of a longstanding effort to reorient Singapore's economy toward higher-value service industries like tourism and biosciences as it loses manufacturing competitiveness to China. To wean itself from semiconductors and hard-disk drives, Singapore's leaders have emphasized the need for Singapore to become a lifestyle capital with the kind of creativity conducive to economic experimentation.
 ''You have to see it as part of wider efforts to promote and broaden activities in the services sector,'' said Song Seng Wun, regional economist at G.K. Goh Research.
 These are, by Singapore standards, liberating times. Two years ago, the government announced an end to a ban on hiring gays. Last year, it lifted a 22-year ban on Cosmopolitan magazine and allowed television viewers to see a censored version of ''Sex and the City.''
 There is no shortage of potential investors willing to share in Singapore's casino plans. International casino operators are eager to expand in Asia, where rising incomes are enabling people to spend more than ever on wagering. Nineteen gaming consortiums, including Harrah's Entertainment, MGM Mirage and Las Vegas Sands, responded to a government tender last year for proposals. Harrah's, owner of the Caesars resorts, has even enlisted the architect Daniel Libeskind, who designed the Freedom Tower that is to stand on the site of the World Trade Center in New York, to design one of its proposed resorts.
 Singapore's business leaders praised the move. ''The government is prepared to give these folks the ability to invest their money and create tourism attractions that will get Singapore tourism back on track,'' said Phillip Overmyer, executive director of the Singapore International Chamber of Commerce.
 Tourism accounts for at least 5 percent of Singapore's economy, a number that economists say understates the sector's importance to the part of its economy not involved with foreign trade. 
 Despite its long and colorful history, Singapore is short on conventional tourist sites. While it has succeeded in turning itself into a regional hub for air travel, tourists have used it mostly as a base for exploring the region, not necessarily Singapore.
 ''They want to give people a reason to stop here or stay a little bit longer,'' said David Cohen, director of Asian economic forecasting at Action Economics.
 The government's plan is for two separate casino resorts: one on a theme park island off Singapore's southern coast; and the other near the city's main convention center, an area bristling with business hotels and close to the distinctive Esplanade performing arts center that Singapore built in 2002 in a bid to become a cultural hub. 
 Harrah's is bidding to build both sites as part of a joint venture with the government-controlled company Keppel. Also among the bidders are Kerzner International, Wynn Resorts and the Australian casino operator Tabcorp Holdings.
 Economists said that the casinos were likely to have a direct tangible impact. A report by Merrill Lynch estimated that a single casino would cost roughly $2 billion to build and would generate roughly $2.1 billion a year in revenue, roughly a third of it from foreign tourists. The project would benefit the construction and tourism industries, it predicted, including shops and hotels. It would contribute $865,000 a year to government tax revenues.
 But the prospect of lifting the longstanding ban on casinos brought the government's liberalization efforts squarely against the conservative sensitivities of its most loyal constituents.
 Singaporeans are no strangers to gambling. The government runs a national lottery, as well as off-track betting on horse racing. Widespread illegal gambling on soccer matches prompted the government in 1999 to get into that business as well.
 But many fear that a casino would erode the city-state's low crime rates and open the way for a return of the organized crime, drugs and vice that characterized Singapore before independence in 1965. Many also fear a sharp rise in gambling addiction.
 Singaporeans now travel abroad to visit casinos. Macao, in particular, is a magnet for gamblers from around the region, and since it ended a local monopoly on gambling two years ago, it has attracted billions of dollars in investments from Las Vegas Sands, MGM Mirage and Wynn Resorts.
 A women's advocacy group, Aware, issued a public statement last week urging the government to reject casinos. ''Aware feels very strongly that the well-being of the family must not be sacrificed to out-of-town casino operators,'' it said.
 But signals had been growing that the government planned to approve the plan since Mr. Lee, the prime minister, rejected calls for a referendum after taking office last year. 
 A string of ministerial statements in favor of casinos culminated last week in a public vote of support from Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore's conservative founding prime minister and Mr. Lee's father. For too long, he said, Singapore had neglected vernacular culture.
 ''I went for high culture, and forgot pop culture,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); LODGING (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CENSORSHIP (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); HARD DRIVES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (74%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (63%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (74%); MGM (NYSE) (63%); LVS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (74%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (74%)

PERSON: LEE HSIEN LOONG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (99%); CHINA (93%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



392 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Proposes Return of Tax on Stock Trades to Aid Schools

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer, a Democratic candidate for mayor, called yesterday for a temporary reinstatement of a tax on stock trades to help raise more money for education, hoping to shift attention to an area where public opinion polls suggest Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is vulnerable.
 ''The men and women in our robust financial sector understand that good schools are good for business and essential to our city and its economic future,'' Mr. Ferrer said in a speech at Pace University in Lower Manhattan. ''With a fair share from the industry that benefits most, we can finally deliver on the unfulfilled promises that have been made to our children.'' 
 Until 1981, the state taxed stock transfers at up to five cents per share, capped at $350 per sale, and paid the revenue to the city. For a time after the tax was ended, the state paid the city a fraction of the lost revenue, but that ended in 2001.
 Under Mr. Ferrer's proposal, sellers of stock would be taxed between an eighth and a half a cent per share, depending on the value of the stock, up to a maximum of $35. The tax, which would need the approval of the state Legislature, would remain in effect for four years and generate $4 billion in revenue, according to the campaign.
 That money, he said, would more than pay for the city's potential part of an obligation imposed by a court ruling that found that an additional $5.6 billion must be spent each year on the city's schools, plus another $9.2 billion over the next five years. The court decision is likely to remain on appeal for at least another year. Mr. Ferrer said he would use the increased resources to attract and retain qualified teachers, reduce class size, increase after-school and pre-kindergarten programs, purchase materials and improve special education and English language learning programs.
 Mr. Ferrer argued that the burden of paying the tax would fall on the day traders and speculators who had ''injected volatility into our financial markets by confusing Wall Street with Las Vegas.'' Nonetheless, he said he would devote $250,000 to invest in infrastructure and improved technology for the stock exchanges and would give financial leaders a role in overseeing how the new revenue was spent in the schools.
 Mr. Ferrer, who has been eager to shift the public debate away from his statements that the 1999 police shooting of Amadou Diallo was not a crime and toward the substantive issues facing voters, delivered his remarks before a crowd of reporters and receptive officials. Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, praised Mr. Ferrer for presenting his proposal and called it ''bold.'' 
 Others were not so enthusiastic. Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, which represents business and investment leaders, said that in other cities, including Tokyo and Stockholm, trading volume decreased after similar taxes were imposed. A study by her group, she said, suggested that New York could lose roughly 10,000 jobs if such a tax was imposed.
 ''Whenever there's a fiscal crisis or a budget problem or a pet project that somebody wants to get through, the first thing that people remember is that before 1981, we had a stock transfer tax,'' she said. ''What people forget is that we now have a global economy, and as a result you can no longer assume that a marginal increase in stock costs will go unnoticed by the trading public.''
 Sheldon Silver, who, as speaker of the State Assembly, would have a loud voice in whether such a measure could win approval, criticized it as well.
 ''It's not the right way to go,'' he said through a spokesman. ''It does not promote the economy of New York.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a proposal by Fernando Ferrer, a Democratic candidate for New York mayor, to revive a tax on stock trades misstated the amount of revenue he would designate for investments in Wall Street infrastructure and technology. It is $250 million, not $250,000. Further developments are reported today on Page B4.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer, a Democratic candidate for mayor, arriving at Pace to deliver his speech yesterday. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); TEACHER UNIONS (62%); SHOOTINGS (50%) Taxation; Education and Schools; Election Issues; Stocks and Bonds; Elections; Mayors; Public Opinion; Taxation

COMPANY: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNING & INSTRUCTION SYSTEM INC (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



393 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: New York Type At the U.N.? Look Out

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
GOV. BILL RICHARDSON of New Mexico had some advice for John R. Bolton, the Bush administration's choice to represent this country at the United Nations. Never forget, Mr. Richardson said, that even though it has extraterritorial status, the United Nations is very much part of New York.
 ''You have to engage the city,'' he said by phone from Albuquerque. ''You have to participate in city activities. I think it helps if New Yorkers consider you somebody that cares not just about diplomacy but also the city.'' 
 The governor's opinion was solicited because he once held the ambassador's job, in the late 1990's under President Bill Clinton. He was not asked what he thought about Mr. Bolton's qualifications as a diplomat. That, mercifully, is some other columnist's department.
 But with the Bolton nomination before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where Democratic members have expressed misgivings, the relationship between Washington's emissary and New York seemed worth exploring.
 In this regard, Mr. Richardson was unusual. ''I tried,'' he said, ''to do grass-roots things,'' like joining his Russian counterpart in a ''town hall'' meeting with Russian emigres in Brooklyn.
 ''I took Security Council members to Yankee games,'' he said. ''It was promotional as well as a way for me to get to know them better. I was a boxing fan, so I'd go to Gleason's Gym. I participated in some of the social events in the city: the Al Smith dinner, charity dinners. I felt that it's important to be known as a citizen of New York, too. It enhances your effectiveness, especially with those non-U.N. types that can help you.''
 Mr. Richardson is better than most when it comes to what is known, in the formal language of diplomacy, as schmoozing. He is a politician through and through, graced with an outgoing manner.
 Mr. Bolton, by contrast, may have a tougher Embassy Row to hoe.
 Witnesses before the Foreign Relations Committee characterized him last week as a human wrecking ball, an ill-tempered bully with as much personality as a blowtorch. In a phrase likely to cling to him like New York soot, a former colleague described him to the senators as ''a kiss-up, kick-down sort of guy.''
 Some say that those criticisms disqualify Mr. Bolton. But a fellow like that could do well in New York.
 A kiss-up, kick-down guy may be just the man to sic on countries that refuse to pay their old parking tickets. Not much is at stake -- about $20 million in all, the city's Finance Department says, barely enough to keep the municipal government running for three and a half hours.
 But ''deadbeat diplos'' is a favorite topic for some newspapers, especially on slow days. So we might as well get the scofflaws to pay up. Those economic titans, Egypt, Nigeria and Morocco, are at or near the top of the list. Combined, they owed nearly $3.5 million (enough to pay for 38 minutes of local government). Who better to go after them than a kick-down guy?
 The United Nations also wants to construct new space for its employees while its decrepit headquarters building undergoes renovations. Albany, however, has withheld its required approval for the new offices.
 Mr. Bolton has already offered a solution. ''There is no such thing as the United Nations,'' he said in 1994. That's great. No United Nations, no real estate needs.
 WHAT'S that, you say? Mr. Bolton was just trying to get his audience's attention? And he explained all that to the senators last week?
 O.K. How about this for dealing with the space crunch: ''The Secretariat building has 38 stories. If we lost 10 stories today, it wouldn't make a bit of difference.'' Mr. Bolton said that, too, in 1994. He even sliced the air with his hand, as if to show how to do it.
 That is certainly one way to go. Then again, we in New York have had recent experience with people lopping 10 stories -- and a good deal more -- from some of our buildings. If he comes here, Mr. Bolton may want to think about using lower-octane language.
 His personality, however, was not Mr. Richardson's concern. The governor talked only about the relationship between the ambassador, whoever he or she may be, and the city. It will be helpful all around, he repeated, if Mr. Bolton ''shows that the Bush administration cares about not just U.N. diplomats but about the city.''
 Hmm. Given Mr. Bolton's past opinions of United Nations diplomacy, many New Yorkers may anticipate with dread what he has to say about them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) United Nations; United States Foreign Service

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Clyde Haberman; John R Bolton; Bill (Gov) Richardson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



394 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: 25 Years Later, PBS Revisits Romance and Death in Saudi Arabia

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The last time PBS caused a stir was in January when Education Secretary Margaret Spellings objected to a children's show that featured real-life lesbians. PBS pulled the episode. So there is something both delicious and sad about public television's decision to rebroadcast a famously controversial docudrama, ''Death of a Princess,'' about the execution of an adulterous Saudi princess, that was shown in 1980 over the objections of the Saudi government, the State Department, members of Congress and Mobil Oil, a major PBS sponsor.
 A new postscript to tonight's broadcast poses the question of whether the condition of women in the Islamic kingdom has improved at all since ''Death'' was first shown 25 years ago. One change, however, seems indisputable: pressure from Christian fundamentalists and conservatives has all but emasculated PBS. 
 In fairness, PBS was much more important then than now: until the advent of cable, it essentially served as the fourth network, an antidote to the profit-driven big three, NBC, CBS and ABC. Its mandate was to provide viewers with edifying, thought-provoking programs that the networks would reject. And in 1980, the year of the failed attempt to rescue American hostages in Iran, rising oil prices and an economic recession, few television executives were in any mood to poke a stick at Saudi Arabia, which at the time appeared to be this country's one stable ally in the region.
 It is useful, but not nearly as brave, of ''Frontline'' to show ''Death'' now. Since Sept. 11, 2001, Saudi Arabia has become a much more vulnerable target for American anger and inquiry by journalists, international organizations and Congress. 
 ''Death'' remains a thoughtful, engrossing film, though in retrospect it is as telling about the journalistic process as it is of life behind the veil. After hearing reports that a Saudi princess and her lover had been executed for adultery in 1977, a British journalist, Antony Thomas, decided to investigate. He stumbled across so much fear and secrecy from sources that he concluded he would never be able to make a conventional documentary. He turned his reporting into a docudrama, hiring actors to re-enact the interviews he conducted in London, Paris, Beirut and Saudi Arabia.
 By today's standards, his is a fairly tame look at a horrifying act. The execution, conducted in public (men only, that is) in a sandy lot, is only briefly shown. The princess, wrapped in a chador, was shot. Her lover, a young Saudi, was beheaded. The camera pulls away before the first blow of the sword. 
 Mr. Thomas calls himself Christopher Ryder (played by Paul Freeman) in the film, and most of the action is the reporter's journey past red herrings, misinformation and other frustrations that make investigative reporting so rare. He cannot nail down even basic facts: where the princess met her lover, how their romance was discovered. Sources are mysterious and misleading, and not just in the Middle East. Ryder's toughest interview is with a German named Elsa Gruber (Judy Parfitt) who served as a nanny for the royal family and knew the princess a little. Miss Gruber is in turn coy, volatile and paranoid, worried that Ryder is trying to steal information she could sell as a book. 
 The Princess (Suzanne Abou Taleb) is left an enigma and is shown only a few times, usually as described by Ms. Gruber: dancing wildly at an all-female party in a palace. 
 After a very long road, Ryder is introduced to a woman who is referred to only as the Emira, and who seems to have most of the facts of the story as well as a firsthand knowledge of how Saudi high society really works. She explains to Ryder how rich married women find lovers. ''There's a road in the desert,'' she says. ''Women go there to look men over. Every evening, at about 5. When they choose a man, if it works, it works. And if it doesn't, they just move on.'' 
 In the 1980 film, one of Ryder's closest Arab friends tells him that his story is ''the whole Arab predicament: How much of our past must we abandon? How much of your present is worth imitating?''
 Perhaps the clearest explanation of why women have made so little progress in a country that has embraced so many aspects of Western life is offered in the new postscript by Mona Eltahawy, an Arab journalist. She explains that in Saudi society, women's emancipation is viewed as the most drastic and dangerous form of Westernization: the ultimate abandonment of tradition and Arab culture. ''So it's this paradox,'' Ms. Eltahawy says. ''The more open and modernized you become, the tighter you must hold onto women in particular, and children, to show what a good Saudi you are and what a good Muslim you are.''
 Perhaps the greatest service this two-hour program provides is that it presents a horrifying act within a broader context, teasing out the cultural complexities along with the more sensational details. 

Death of a Princess
PBS, tonight at 9; check local listings.

Produced and directed by Antony Thomas; Martin McKeand, co-producer; Antony Thomas and David Fanning, writers. A Frontline production in association with ATV England and Telepictures Corporation of New York.

WITH: Paul Freeman (Christopher Ryder), Judy Parfitt (Elsa Gruber), Suzanne Abou Taleb (Princess).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DRAMA FILMS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); WRITERS (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (53%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: MARGARET SPELLINGS (73%) Alessandra Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005



395 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Cement Plant Along Hudson Is Rejected as Unsightly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 19 

 BODY:
A proposal to build a cement plant on the east bank of the Hudson River in Columbia County was dealt a severe, and possibly permanent, setback on Tuesday when the Pataki administration rejected its application in part because it would mar the natural beauty that has helped ignite a resurgence in the area. 
 A Canadian company, St. Lawrence Cement, wanted to build a plant that could produce two million tons of cement a year in the town of Greenport and along a stretch of riverfront in the city of Hudson. 
 While some residents welcomed the prospect of new jobs, the plan, which called for a 40-story smokestack and a two-mile-long conveyer system to get materials to the waterfront, was opposed by community and environmental groups that said it would cause pollution, spoil scenic vistas, impair access to the river and hurt the growing tourist industry in the Hudson Valley. 
 Secretary of State Randy A. Daniels, whose approval was necessary for the plant to get the permits it needs from the Army Corps of Engineers, ruled on Tuesday that the plan was inconsistent with the state's coastal management policies. 
 ''The project's configuration, size and location, as proposed, affects the state's coastal areas in a manner which is inconsistent with our coastal policies,'' he said in a statement.
 St. Lawrence Cement could appeal the decision to the United States Commerce Department, or to a state court, or could resubmit its proposal to try to remedy the defects found by the secretary of state.
 A spokesman, Daniel Odescalchi, said the company would need to review the decision before settling on a course of action.
 ''Clearly, we're disappointed,'' he said, noting that the cement plant would replace an older one across the river in Catskill. ''We believe this a very good project that replaces an older plant with a cleaner, more environmentally friendly one.''
 In a 20-page decision, Mr. Daniels said that the cement plant and its waterfront operations -- loading and unloading 24 hours a day on docks near a park -- were incompatible with the state's goals for the area. He said that almost all of the jobs created by a new plant in Greenport would be lost at the one in Catskill.
 The decision noted the changing character of Hudson, a former industrial city that has seen a transformation, with antique stores, boutiques and bistros opening in the refurbished brick buildings that line Warren Street, its main street. And it said that the plant would mar the sweeping views from Olana, the hilltop Persian-style home of Frederic E. Church, the Hudson River School landscape artist, which is now a museum.
 ''Hudson relies on the area's high quality of life, contributed to by the visual appeal of the area, its historic fabric and texture, its pastoral setting, and attractions such as its waterfront park and Olana as the basis for continued economic growth,'' the decision said. 
 The proposed cement plant has divided residents of Columbia County, sometimes along class lines. While some longed for the return of industry, and the 1,500 construction jobs it promised, others worried that it would hurt the character of an area whose natural beauty has enticed many people to relocate or buy second homes. 
 ''Stop the Plant'' lawn signs are a common site in many Columbia County villages. 
 Opponents of the plant were delighted, and full of praise for Mr. Daniels and Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 ''It's the right decision for the Hudson Valley,'' said Alix Gerosa, the director of environmental quality at Scenic Hudson, an environmental group that joined with others, including Friends of Hudson and the Olana Partnership, to fight the plant. ''This should be a strong message to St. Lawrence Cement that they should call it quits.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMENT MFG (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); ARMIES (55%); TOURISM (54%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) Cement; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: HOLCIM (CANADA) INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%) Commerce Department; St Lawrence Cement Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS212312 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE MINING & QUARRYING (57%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (57%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (57%); SIC1422 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE (57%)

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hudson River; Hudson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005



396 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Selig Says He Discussed Special Investigator for Steroids 

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, confirmed last night that he had discussed with members of Congress the appointment of an independent outside party to investigate steroid use in the game. But Selig's comments were brief, and he expressed annoyance that part of his conversation with House members last week in Washington had become public.
 ''We've had that discussion,'' Selig said during a question-and-answer session that followed a forum with sports league commissioners at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York in Manhattan. ''I don't have any other comment right now. We all agreed that the meeting would be confidential.'' 
 The New York Times reported yesterday that Selig and other baseball officials had spoken with members of the House Committee on Government Reform about the possibility that baseball would conduct its own investigation of steroid use if Congress would defer its investigation.
 But Selig would not say if he had agreed to the concept and added that it might be difficult to investigate past steroid use. 
 ''I understand that people desire to find out what happened in the past,'' Selig said. ''It's very difficult to determine what happened in the past. I'm not even sure the way to do it.''
 Selig spoke alongside two other commissioners, Gary Bettman of the National Hockey League and David Stern of the National Basketball Association. Paul Tagliabue, commissioner of the National Football League, was out of town. 
 Bettman spent much of the day meeting with representatives of the N.H.L. Players' Association in New York in efforts to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement to end a lockout that canceled the entire season this year as well as the Stanley Cup playoffs.
 Bettman was scheduled to update owners and top league executives today at a board of governors meeting. In a statement after the six-and-a-half-hour meeting, Bill Daly, the league's executive vice president, said that ''no substantive progress toward a new agreement was made'' and that a ''more aggressive meeting schedule'' would be planned for the next several weeks.
 Ted Saskin, the senior director of the union, said in a statement that ''we were unable to make any progress today'' and that he was concerned that ''the N.H.L. is not serious about developing new concepts together.''
 Although the union has accepted part of the league's demands for a salary cap and linkage between revenue and player compensation, Saskin said that the N.H.L. wants a ''linked, hard-cap system'' that is too restrictive. ''I fail to see how we can make any progress if the N.H.L. maintains their single-track approach,'' Saskin said.
 All three commissioners at the forum spoke of what they said was the need to link salaries with revenue. ''What's a fair split?'' Stern said. In support of Bettman, Stern added, ''It is incomprehensible for a union not to engage in that discussion.''
 Among other topics, the commissioners discussed altercations between fans and athletes and the changing economics of television rights fees and network arrangements.
 Although there has been much speculation that the N.H.L. would start next season with replacement players if there is no agreement with the union, Bettman did not mention that yesterday.
 ''We are hopeful we can do it for the start of next season,'' Bettman said of a new labor agreement. ''The timing is not something I can predict with certainty because it is not within my control.''
 One of the participants on the labor side of the negotiations yesterday said that the meeting ended on a harsh note when Jeremy Jacobs, the owner of the Boston Bruins, demanded to know whether the union was prepared to accept no more than a 54 percent share of revenue as salary.
 That was the N.H.L. demand before the lockout, and Bettman said yesterday at the lawyers' forum that players now get more than 70 percent of the revenue. Jacobs's question started a sharp exchange with Bob Goodenow, the executive director of the union, according to the union participant. 




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); STEROIDS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (72%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); LOCKOUTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005



397 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Price Index Is Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Surging fuel costs drove up wholesale prices in March by the most in four months, the Labor Department said yesterday. But a smaller-than-expected increase in prices excluding energy and food helped ease concern that inflation was accelerating. 
 The Commerce Department issued a report yesterday that said that home construction plunged last month by the most since January 1991. Housing starts dropped a greater-than-expected 18 percent in March. Work began on 1.837 million homes at an annual rate, the fewest since November, after a 21-year high of 2.229 million in February.
 The drop in home building, combined with lower core inflation, added to evidence that the economy slowed in the first quarter.
 The measure of prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers rose 0.7 percent, the Labor Department said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Building (Construction); Housing Starts

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005



398 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: City, Looking to Health and Costs, Is to Pass Emissions Laws for Its Fleet

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
In an effort to reduce harmful emissions while raising the fuel economy of its huge fleet of vehicles, New York City is set to impose strict environmental standards on cars and vans it buys, and to require that diesel trucks and buses be modified. 
 The City Council is expected to vote today to approve a wide-ranging package of environmental bills intended to reduce the tailpipe emissions that contribute to cancer, heart disease and respiratory problems, including asthma.
 The additional costs of using clean fuel and modifying existing engines with filters is expected to be offset by the savings in fuel consumption and, over the long term, lower health care costs. 
 The bills would force the city to buy only cars or vans that are the least polluting models available whenever it replaces vehicles currently in use, including the gas-guzzling Chevrolet Suburban provided for Council Speaker Gifford Miller, a sponsor of the bills. No more than 5 percent of the new cars could be exempted. 
 The bills would also require the city's fleet to be efficient enough to reduce its overall fuel costs by 20 percent in a decade. 
 In another sweeping change, the 4,000 yellow school buses that transport public school children will have to switch to ultraclean fuels and be retrofitted with catalysts and filters. 
 The antipollution devices cost several thousand dollars per vehicle, and much more for older engines. Environmentalists hope this will encourage owners to replace aging buses with new, clean, more efficient models. 
 The 8,800 heavy-duty diesel buses and trucks owned by the city, including trash haulers and street sweepers used by the Department of Sanitation, must also switch to cleaner diesel fuel and be equipped with high-efficiency filters. And private tour buses, including the older double-decker buses frequently seen in Manhattan, would have to clean up their emissions substantially or be taken off the streets. 
 ''These bills will have dramatic and far-reaching effects,'' said Councilman James F. Gennaro, a Democrat from Queens and chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee. 
 Speaker Miller of Manhattan, a Democratic candidate for mayor, said the new laws would ''help all New Yorkers, especially our children, breathe easier.'' 
 Mr. Gennaro said that the legislation had already been reviewed by the Bloomberg administration and that he expected it to pass easily. But during negotiations with City Hall, major objections were raised to a provision that would have required the Department of Sanitation to buy new garbage trucks powered by compressed natural gas, one of the cleanest fuels. An experiment in the 1990's with natural gas-powered trucks was disappointing, and sanitation officials did not want to use them again except on a limited basis. 
 In the end, the bills include a pilot program involving a handful of street sweepers powered by compressed natural gas. 
 Executives from companies willing to pay for the construction of stations that dispense natural gas to help the city make the switch said that technology had improved greatly since the city last used the vehicles. Dozens of cities in the United States use compressed natural gas extensively. 
 ''The city really missed an opportunity to move forward on the cleanest fuel to reduce the consumption of foreign oil and cut down on the rate of asthma,'' said Garnet D. Glover, general manager of Clean Energy, a natural gas supplier that had promised to spend up to $4 million to build refueling stations in New York. 
 Instead of selecting a new fuel, the city is focusing on cleaning up the diesel engines that have already been identified as major sources of pollution. In 2003, a similar law was passed to clean up diesel-powered vehicles on construction sites. 
 When it comes to regulating diesel engines, the city is a few steps ahead of the federal government, which will require ultralow sulfur fuel in all diesel engines as of September 2006. Environmentalists say that switching to the new fuel reduces harmful emissions only marginally, but it is important because it makes possible the use of sensitive filters that produce substantial reductions. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's buses and some school buses already use the ultraclean fuel, but one company, Sprague Energy, is the city's sole supplier. Some city officials are worried that there might not be enough ultraclean diesel fuel available to meet demand between this summer, when the new city laws go into effect, and September 2006, when the federal standards kick in. 
 Mr. Miller said that switching to the new fuel before the federal schedule would allow New York to create a new market that would attract producers and suppliers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); ASTHMA (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (64%) Air Pollution; Trucks and Trucking; Buses; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools; Asthma; Diesel Power; Air Pollution; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Sanitation Department (NYC)

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005



399 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Beer Cans Bridge the Gap Between Global Pop Art and Cuban Kitsch

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
If globalism alters the landscape of contemporary art the way some people think it will, more and more artists in far-flung places will be learning to bridge the gap between their own cultures and the international art world. 
 Alberto Casado, a young Cuban artist who just might be on the threshold of an international career, is an intriguing example. His beautiful imitation folk-art paintings on glass were included in the 2003 Istanbul Biennial, and now Art in General, the alternative nonprofit gallery in Lower Manahattan, is presenting ''Alberto Casado: Todo Clandestino, Todo Popular,'' his second solo exhibition and his first in New York.
 Born in Havana in 1970, Mr. Casado discovered his signature medium while still in art school. Assigned to recreate a known artwork in different materials, he produced an image of Jasper Johns's cast-bronze ale cans using a popular Cuban glass-painting technique. Imagery drawn in black ink on the reverse side of a sheet of glass is placed on top of crumpled aluminum foil painted with translucent colors, creating the effect of stained glass and precious metals. Mr. Casado learned the craft while working in a shop that made cheap simulations of precious religious objects. Now he makes expensive simulations of cheap simulations. 
 Mr. Casado next applied his technique to a pair of Cuban beer cans, and here is where the complex conceptual potential of the craft emerged. Collecting and displaying different kinds of beer cans is a popular custom in Cuba, so Mr. Casado's Cuban beer cans make the leap between international Pop Art and Cuban kitsch, a leap that he went on to explore in more complex narrative and symbolic pictures. 
 In a series from the mid-1990's, Mr. Casado illustrated scenes from the artistic avant-garde activism and protests of the 1980's in Cuba. One features a man in traditional Indian costume finely drawn, like all his figures, in a slightly primitive, cartoon style. A wall label explains that Mr. Casado's picture recalls a performance by a conceptual artist who attended a lecture by Robert Rauschenberg in Cuba while wearing full Indian regalia as a statement about colonialism.
 A larger picture with dozens of little figures concerns a brawl that ensued when a man dressed in a police uniform and three underdressed female dancers walked on a huge portrait of Che Guevera that was displayed on the floor of an exhibition space. 
 The social and political significance of those works will be lost on viewers not steeped in Cuban art history. And as it happens the stories they tell were known to Mr. Casado only through hearsay. He approached them as if they were mythic legends, retelling them the way a folk artist would retell stories of Jesus or of indigenous gods. Whether Mr. Casado meant to mock avant-garde fatuousness, celebrate its heroism or memorialize its failure remains teasingly ambiguous. But his post-conceptualist belief in the ability of art to process worldly realities imaginatively remains unmistakable. 
 One of the exhibition's most beautiful works is a portrait in profile of Fidel Castro in his signature green army hat and full beard. A background of radiating gold and ruby stripes gives him a divine aura, and the skin of his face is curiously divided into scores of little numbered facets. Lettered in gold on the top and bottom borders of the picture are the words ''Para'' and ''Siempre,'' or ''Forever.'' The political import of this work is veiled and the purpose of the numbers unclear, but it is easy to suspect it of satiric motives. It might be a sly parody of the kind of reverential icon that the authorities would want to find decorating the homes of dutiful citizens. 
 There are relatively few overtly political images in Mr. Casado's show, however -- hardly anything that would tell you what his politics are. What runs deeper than politics in Mr. Casado's work is religion. The artist belongs to an Afro-Cuban, all-male secret society called Abakua, whose members perform occult rituals and communicate by means of hermetic signs and symbols. Many of his pictures, punctuated by puzzling symbolic devices as well as numbers, do give the hair-raising impression of being made by a member of an esoteric cult. In ''The Good Doctor,'' a surgeon tends to a man on an operating table whose hands have been cut off. In each corner of the picture a giant hand attached to an intravenous tube bears one of four words that say in Spanish, ''to work,'' ''to steal,'' ''to struggle'' and ''to escape.'' The words may have political meanings, but the man on the table is also like the Hanged Man of Tarot Cards, a figure of ambiguous mystery.
 A wall label explains that the numbers have to do with an officially illegal but popular lottery game involving numbers that correspond to a Chinese system of charades or emblematic pictures. Exactly what role the numbers and their meanings play in Mr. Casado's work is not well explained by the exhibition, and it remains hard to tell whether a coherent belief system animates Mr. Casado's art. But there is a strong sense of what you might call magic social realism -- the feeling of a world in which the circulation of poetic symbols and metaphors affects the collective psychic economy as powerfully as money and commodities do the material economy. 
 You may wonder, would Mr. Casado's art be different -- more openly challenging, say -- were he living in a place that allowed greater freedom of speech? Or would his art lose its compressive urgency if it were uprooted from the soil that so richly feeds it? Now that he is on the global radar, it will interesting to see how he negotiates between local and international imperatives. 

"Alberto Casado: Todo Clandestino, Todo Popular" will remain at Art in General, 79 Walker Street, Lower Manhattan, (212)219-0473, through June 25.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alberto Casado's portrait of Castro in glass, paint, inks and foil. (Photo by Art in General)(pg. E1)
 In ''El Buen Doctor,'' Alberto Casado reveals little about his politics. Religion runs deeper. (Photo by Art in General)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (77%); DANCERS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); RELIGION (66%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Ken Johnson; Alberto Casado

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) CUBA (93%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005



400 of 608 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- New York Area; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Community Colleges Help In Downtown Renewals

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
While many large colleges and universities are identified with cities, community colleges are more likely to be associated with the suburbs. But in parts of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, community colleges, often working closely with public officials, are taking important roles in the renewal of downtown areas. 
 In Peekskill, N.Y., for example, Westchester Community College was a catalyst a decade ago in a redevelopment that has led to the restoration of a number of vacant or underused properties. Now, community colleges have announced plans that could have positive effects on the future development of downtown New Haven and of Riverhead and Sayville on Long Island. 
 In New Haven, the state of Connecticut, along with city officials, announced a $230 million development in June 2004 to relocate both the Long Wharf Theater, which is now on Sargent Drive, and Gateway Community College. They would be moved to a long-struggling part of the city's downtown, with about $140 million earmarked for the project.
 Gateway is now split into two campuses. Preliminary plans call for two new buildings on opposite sides of George Street, covering about 359,000 square feet. The two-story buildings would be connected by a pedestrian bridge and would take up two large blocks that formerly housed two department stores: Macy's and Malley's. Although the former Macy's is still standing, the Malley's store was razed in 1997.
 On Long Island, the revitalization plans are smaller in scope, but still noteworthy, development officials say. Suffolk County Community College is completing plans to expand its nursing program to downtown Sayville and move its rapidly growing culinary arts program, which now has 80 students, to a building to be built in downtown Riverhead by the Parr Organization, a developer based in Ronkonkoma, N.Y.
 Phil Cardinale, the town supervisor, said that the two-story 28,000-square-foot building would be built on the largest piece of vacant land downtown, a site that has been designated for urban renewal since 1998. 
 George Gatta, vice president for work force and economic development at Suffolk County Community College, said the site had been picked because it was close to the college's Riverhead campus, which is about three miles away, and because tourism was growing rapidly in Riverhead and the demand for culinary workers is rising. The culinary arts program is expected to expand to include hotel and resort management and to accommodate 250 students by 2010.
 David M. Feehan, president of the International Downtown Association, a Washington-based group that represents many business improvement districts, said that community colleges were opening more urban campuses, both to gain a broader range of students and to make use of the public transportation that is often available. In the process, they are helping to revitalize many downtowns.
 That is certainly the case with Westchester Community College, whose main campus is on 218 bucolic acres in Valhalla, N.Y. But it has also established major operations in the downtown areas of Peekskill, Mount Vernon and Yonkers. ''I would say that our biggest accomplishment has been access,'' said Joseph N. Hankin, the president of the college. 
 In Peekskill, city officials say that Westchester Community College deserves credit for helping to revive the downtown area, which continues to draw new business, especially in the arts. In 1994, the college opened a 10,000-square-foot extension site for the arts in Peekskill on the site of an old Woolworth store, and in 2003 it took over the entire 20,000-square-foot building. 
 That same year, the college opened an extension site in downtown Mount Vernon, in a renovated 16,000-square-foot building that once housed a Sears store. Mr. Hankin says the college is considering establishing an extension campus in downtown Port Chester as well. 
 Development officials laud that kind of interest. They say community colleges often bring broader economic benefits to downtown areas than traditional colleges do because their student bodies tend to be older and more diversified and many students already have jobs. 
 ''Community colleges add diversity in every respect,'' said Cathy Coleman, executive director of the Downtown Norfolk Council, a group that manages the business improvement district in Norfolk, Va., where Tidewater Community College opened a campus in 1997 by renovating old buildings. Ms. Coleman says the campus has helped to stimulate further development, including two new office buildings and a one-million-square-foot shopping center.
 In the New York area, some community colleges have long been in downtowns, like the Borough of Manhattan Community College and Monroe College, which offers both associate and bachelor degrees in downtown New Rochelle. When Monroe moved to New Rochelle in 1983 from the Bronx, it occupied half of an old government agency building on Main Street. Since then, it has expanded to cover about three city blocks, on property that either needed upgrading or was vacant, like the long-empty Librett hardware store on Main Street. 
 In downtown Trenton, the James Kerney campus of Mercer County Community College, based in West Windsor, N.J., is about to expand again. The 75,000-square-foot campus has enlarged twice since it was established in 1975, and now it is about to build a large all-glass facade to make the college more visible and to attract more local development, said Beverly Richardson, the campus provost. 
 Developers are alert to such expansion opportunities. On Long Island, Ron Parr, the head of the Parr Organization, is enthusiastic about plans that Suffolk County Community College now has for a 3,000-square-foot bistro and cafe at its new building in Riverhead, and he is considering building 250 apartments in downtown Riverhead to cater to younger home buyers. ''We think the college will be a catalyst for other development,'' Mr. Parr said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph N. Hankin, right, president of Westchester Community College, and Talbert B. Spence, an assistant dean, on campus in Mount Vernon. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); RESORTS (71%); RETAILERS (65%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Area Planning and Renewal; Community Colleges; Relocation of Business; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Long Wharf Theater; Gateway Community College; Suffolk Community College; Parr Organization; Mercer County Community College ; Westchester Community College

PERSON: Sana Siwolop

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; New Haven (Conn); Sayville (NY); Riverhead (NY); Trenton (NJ); West Windsor (NJ); Peekskill (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

 
