

601 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO CLIMBS. The euro rose against the dollar as European stocks surged and economic reports showed growth throughout the region. In New York, the euro settled at $1.01360, up from $1.00084.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999



602 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Trade Panel Rules Against U.S. Penalty onSubsidized Steel

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Dec. 23

 BODY:
A World Trade Organization dispute panel sided with the European Union today in a challenge to American duties imposed to counter state subsidies for British-produced steel. If upheld, the ruling could prevent the United States from levying penalties on products made by state-owned companies that are later privatized.
A day earlier, though, in a broader case, a separate W.T.O. panel ruled in favor of the United States, finding that although part of a 1974 American trade law permitting the use of sanctions was contrary to current international rules, the law had so far been carried out in a way that conformed with W.T.O. requirements. 
 Today's ruling, which declared American steel duties contrary to global trade rules, comes at a time that the country's steel industry is struggling to limit imports.
The office of the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, quickly said that it would appeal the decision.
"We strongly disagree with the panel's reasoning," said Thomas Tripp, its spokesman. "A mere change in ownership doesn't render a company's production unsubsidized."
At issue are American import duties imposed from 1994 to 1996 on leaded bars produced by the British Steel Corporation -- since merged into the Corus Group -- which received an estimated $14 billion in government assistance. The 15-member European Union, backed by Brazil and Mexico, argued that the United States had erred by imposing countervailing duties on British-produced steel because of the benefits gained from subsidies.
The United States maintained that a company receiving such government aid gained an unfair advantage for its products that continued into any new ownership situation.
The panel, in a 47-page ruling, said Washington failed to show that the subsidies "had been bestowed directly or indirectly on the production of those imports" where the duties had been levied. It suggested that American officials "take all appropriate steps," including changes in administrative practices, to prevent such violations from reoccuring.
The American Iron and Steel Institute, whose officials were not available for comment, filed friend-of-the-court papers arguing that huge subsidies for British Steel permitted it to "buy equipment and facilities that the market could not justify, train workers who could not have been trained without subsidies, lower debt, or otherwise artificially benefit its production."
The infusion of cash between 1977 and 1986 "literally kept steel-making afloat" in Britain, with serious consequences for other countries' manufacturers, the institute declared.
Any appeal of today's decision must be made within 60 days.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CORS (AMS) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION TATA STEEL EUROPE (92%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PRIVATIZATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); VERDICTS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); 

PERSON: BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (US TRADE REPR); OLSSON, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999



603 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Classifieds

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LAITMAN, LEON

 BODY:
LAITMAN-Leon., Ph.D., 86, died December 21, 1999. Born in Paris, France. After serving in the U.S. Armed Forces W.W. II (OSS), he completed his doctorate in economics development and geography at the University of Paris. He published "Tunisia Today: Crisis in North Africa". His career ranged from consultant to the Tunisian and Canadian governments, AID State Department international economist, Washington DC. Team member Inter/American Geodedic Survey, Panama Canal Zone and Professor Emeritus Geography and environmental studies Youngstown State University, Ohio. Survived by his wife Florence, daughters Lisa & Nancy, sons-in-law Dr. David Thomas and Dr. William Ashley, grandchildren Hannah and Gabriel Thomas, Lauren and Alexandra Ashley, sister Marguerite Laitman and many nieces and nephews. Memorial service was held. Contributions can be made to the Youngstown State University Foundation 20 Federal West Plaza, Youngstown, Ohio 44503. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); PANAMA (79%); OHIO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); 

PERSON: LAITMAN, LEON MARGUERITE LAITMAN (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999



604 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;National Desk

LENGTH: 3324 words

HEADLINE: SOVEREIGN ISLANDS/A special report.;
For Cruise Ships' Workers, Much Toil, Little Protection

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
The kitchen on a cruise ship starts bustling for breakfast before 6 a.m., and some days the workers do not stop peeling, cooking and washing until after the midnight buffet. For laboring as long as 18 hours a day, seven days a week, most galley workers are paid $400 to $450 a month.
These are the migrant workers of the oceans, the thousands of dishwashers, assistant cooks, cabin cleaners and brass-rail polishers who toil unnoticed and unheard aboard luxury cruise ships. Most are from third-world countries, working for months without a day off, living in shared quarters with little or no access to the ship's public areas. 
 Long hours and subsistence wages are part of their contracts, as is the threat of being fired without notice or cause. Yet people from some of the world's poorest nations are so eager for work that some pay middlemen the equivalent of a month's wages to get these jobs, a fee that violates international law.
These are boom times for the cruise industry. Record numbers of passengers are packing bigger and grander ships, providing record profits for the dominant lines. The Carnival Corporation, with 45 ships the world's largest cruise company, is averaging $2.8 million a day in profits this year, almost all tax-free because the company, which is based in Miami, is registered in Panama.
But the benefits have been slow to trickle down to the 70,000 or so workers who keep the fleets running and the passengers dining and dancing. Though living conditions have improved, pay for most workers has risen little, and some say their work has become more grueling as ships have grown into floating cities bustling 24 hours a day.
Even though 90 percent of the nearly six million passengers sailing out of United States ports in 1999 were American, and most lines have their headquarters in the United States, the companies escape American minimum wage requirements and other labor laws the same way they avoid corporate income tax and many criminal and environmental laws: they register their corporations and ships in countries like Liberia and Panama, where laws are lax and enforcement is weak.
Cruise industry representatives say that they provide good job opportunities and that wages are competitive with the rest of the maritime industry, and often much better than what workers could earn at home.
"The most appropriate comparison to shipboard jobs would be jobs that these individuals would be able to obtain in their home countries -- jobs that do not offer either the earning potential or opportunities for advancement and that do not include full room and board, medical care and transportation benefits that are provided to cruise line employees," the International Council of Cruise Lines, the industry trade group, said in a statement.
 
A Lighter Burden
Some Seamen Escape Harder Life at Home
Per capita income in the Philippines, which provides thousands of workers to the cruise industry, is about $1,000 a year. Over the course of their long hours, Filipino waiters and bartenders on a ship can earn 20 times that in tips, in addition to being provided room and board. Even the lowest-paid crew members earn about $400 a month, a substantial sum in many countries.
Carnival Cruise Line said that its starting salaries had increased for many jobs and that it recently created the industry's first retirement plan for shipboard employees. Carnival would not disclose its pay scale, but said that a good waiter, with tips, could earn as much as a counterpart on the mainland in the United States, and that cabin stewards earned more than maids in American hotels.
Critics in Congress and the American maritime industry described the foreign-flagged cruise ships as operating "inside our waters and outside our laws," as several put it. They contend that the practice had led to increased pollution and problems enforcing some criminal laws. In addition, American cruise companies say that the economic advantages of foreign-flagged ships have stifled any effort to create a sizable fleet in this country.
Even those laws that do govern the foreign-flagged cruise industry are often ignored or bent. Despite a 70-hour week suggested by the International Labor Organization, which is affiliated with the United Nations, seafarers routinely work 80 to 90 hours a week without extra pay, many said in interviews.
And despite laws requiring free medical care and adequate sick pay for injured or sick seafarers, crew members sometimes find themselves shipped home or living on a few dollars a day in sick wages while waiting for care. Some unions have negotiated benefits below those available by law; some workers do not even realize they are covered by a labor agreement.
After questions about work conditions were raised as this article was being prepared, the industry trade group announced that its 17 members had adopted voluntary guidelines to govern the shipboard workplace. Among the guidelines were pledges that wages would be competitive with international pay scales, that crew members would be given opportunities for training and career development, and that employees would have the right to voice complaints.
 
Castes Adrift
For Many Workers, A Life Below Decks
Seafarers are not indentured servants, and many develop satisfying careers on ships. Some outside advocates applauded the industry for improving working and living conditions on board and said complaints of exploitation had declined in recent years.
"Is it an ideal lifestyle? No," said the Rev. Peter Larom, executive director of the Seamen's Church Institute, an advocacy group in New York. "Is there a sharp improvement curve? I would say yes. And for seafarers, these are valued jobs."
But just as passenger accommodations range from luxury staterooms with balconies to cramped interior cabins, life for the 1,000 or more crew members aboard a cruise ship is rigidly stratified.
At the top are the captain and other officers, who are usually European and earn $40,000 to $60,000 a year or more. They have staterooms and are encouraged to socialize with passengers.
Next come the skilled seamen and various supervisors, who earn $1,500 to $2,000 a month, usually share a cabin and have little contact with passengers unless their jobs require it. Some workers, like waiters and cabin stewards, are paid as little as $50 a month by the lines, but can earn $2,000 a month or more through tips.
At the bottom are the unskilled workers who clean the kitchens and cabins, wash the laundry, polish the brass and mop the engine rooms. They routinely sleep four to a cabin and are restricted to crew quarters below deck. They are told to speak to passengers only if spoken to first. Most send their earnings home; some, to help their families, work a second shipboard job.
These workers sign contracts that keep them at sea 4 to 10 months. When the contract is up, they get a few weeks off -- without pay, insurance or a guaranteed job when they return.
In the best of circumstances, it can be a hard life. The model wage and hour scale established by the International Labor Organization, suggests a minimum wage of $435 a month for low-level seamen who work 10 hours a day, seven days a week. More often, workers and their lawyers say, the hours are longer. And those at the bottom of the heap are most likely to have paid a fee to get their job, to have paid their own air fare, to know the least about their rights and to have little chance for advancement.
"I had to pay $400 for my job," said Del Ray Miller, who started out earning $415 a month cleaning kitchens on Norwegian Cruise Line ships 80 hours a week, and was making $500 a month three years later cleaning vegetables.
"I bought it from a cruise agent in Jamaica," Mr. Miller said. "I had to borrow the money for my job and air fare. I did this to help my family. I have three kids and my wife plus my mother."
Mr. Miller, who has been unable to work for more than a year because of an injury, said: "I thought my pay would rise and I would be able to pay back the loan. It did not happen."
Another crew member, Julio Castillo, was given a receipt, marked "job placement fee," for $500 cash for a job on a Norwegian Cruise Line ship. The stories and the sums were similar in interviews with many workers for other cruise lines.
International conventions, as well as the laws of the United States and other countries, expressly prohibit charging seafarers fees for jobs. The cruise lines say that they pay outside agencies to find employees but that they forbid charging workers for anything except administrative fees. Carnival, the largest line, said that it would terminate any agency that charged seafarers for a job.
Employees at several agencies in Miami would not discuss recruiting practices, but the owner of Velkin Personnel Services, Ludmila Velasquez, acknowledged charging placement fees to seafarers. She said she did it because cruise lines had told her they did not have the money to pay her.
"I am not a nonprofit," Mrs. Velasquez said, adding that she had no idea such fees were illegal. She said she had recently stopped recruiting for the cruise industry.
 
A Rule of Silence
Many Workers Fear Challenging Abuses
The same needs that drive people to pay for these jobs help keep workers silent about long hours that violate their contracts and about difficult conditions, according to advocates and lawyers for seafarers. Often those who do object find themselves unable to get work at the end of their contract. Several people said recruiting agencies blacklisted workers who complain.
Four Filipino waiters filed suit in state court in Miami three years ago, claiming that they had been blacklisted after objecting to being forced to return part of their tips to their cruise line and hiring a lawyer, Luis A. Perez, to represent them. Lawyers for Majesty Cruise Line, the company that employed the waiters, denied retaliating and said the lawsuit was the result of a misunderstanding. The case is pending.
Douglas B. Stevenson, director of the Center for Seafarers' Rights, which is affiliated with the Seamen's Church Institute, said there was ample evidence of blacklists.
"There are so many people ready, willing and able to take these jobs that you are not going to find too many people willing to complain, because they are afraid of losing their job and being blacklisted," Mr. Stevenson said.
In October, at a sentencing hearing in Miami for Royal Caribbean Cruises on pollution-law violations, the Justice Department said the disparity in work, pay and opportunities for advancement on ships made employees less likely to call attention to crimes like the cruise line's years-long dumping of contaminated waste water.
"The work practices hardly empower the lowest levels to challenge pollution practices or provide such employees a direct route of communication with senior ship or shore-side managers, as good corporate compliance practices would dictate," prosecutors said in court papers.
There is other evidence that workers fear complaining. Santos Alfredo Henriquez, a kitchen worker aboard a Carnival ship, fell down a flight of stairs while carrying a load of plates. Mr. Henriquez, who is from El Salvador, hurt his back, but did not report his injury until the pain became nearly intolerable, according to a suit he filed against Carnival in Miami-Dade County Circuit Court.
"Because of Carnival's inhumane policy of requiring the poor seamen to pay for the plates that they break, the plaintiff was afraid to report his accident, and also thought that he would be fired because Carnival is well known to send men who are injured home and not to rehire them," the complaint said.
Carnival's lawyers said that Mr. Henriquez had received proper medical care and that the company did not retaliate against injured seamen. A spokesman said the line did not charge employees for breaking dishes. The case was settled last March when Carnival paid Mr. Henriquez $100,000.
Maritime laws have protected seamen for centuries because they are so much at the mercy of the owners and officers of their ships. One of the earliest written codes, the Rules of Oleron, dating from 13th century Europe, required ship owners to provide free medical care for sick or injured seamen. Seven centuries later, seamen still sometimes run into trouble collecting their benefits.
Prem Prakashram Sukram worked 15 years in the engine rooms of cruise ships before he broke his ankle in a fall last year. Mr. Sukram said his supervisor had told him the injury was not serious and insisted that he return to work. Eventually, he said, the ship's doctor sent him home to Guyana for medical care.
Mr. Sukram said he had been reluctant to go because he had seen other injured workers sent home and never return to work, and also because he was concerned about his medical bills.
"They said they would pay," Mr. Sukram, a 37-year-old father of three, said. "I went home for six months and I sent the bill to the company. There was no reply. I called and they hung up the phone."
Frustrated and in debt, Mr. Sukram said, he borrowed money and flew to Miami, where he stayed in the basement of a rundown hotel for several weeks waiting for his money. Eventually he filed suit in state court in Miami against a management agency that operated the ship on which he was injured.
The agency, in court papers, denied any wrongdoing, and its lawyer, Domingo Rodriguez, declined to comment. In early December, Mr. Sukram received money for his medical bills and back wages and returned home.
Mr. Miller, the injured kitchen worker from Jamaica, filed suit in state court here, claiming he had not received proper medical care and full sick pay from Norwegian Cruise Line. He was injured in 1998 and has languished since January in a modest Miami motel room, where several printed prayers are tacked to the headboard of his bed.
"Even though the money was small, I sent my money home because I have to take care of my family," Mr. Miller said. "But since I was injured there is no pay to send home."
Norwegian Cruise Line paid for Mr. Miller to see several doctors and is paying for his motel room. In addition, he receives money for food and $12 a day in sick pay. The company's lawyer said in responding to the suit that doctors had determined that Mr. Miller was fit to return to duty and therefore should no longer entitled to sick pay and maintenance.
 
A Question of Jurisdiction
Who Protects Laborers at Sea?
Virtually the only American law that does apply to crew members aboard foreign-flagged ships is the maritime law provision for sick pay to injured and ill seafarers. American courts have generally agreed that the law applies to ship owners with substantial business interests in the United States, a definition that covers the major cruise lines.
The maritime law says seafarers are entitled to sick pay equal to full pay while they were working, including overtime and tips, until the end of their contract. But cruise companies have fought aspects of the law, sometimes calculating sick pay on base salary only and cutting off sick pay at the end of a voyage.
The differences can be significant, as Christina Gheorghita discovered.
Ms. Gheorghita, who is from Romania, was a cabin stewardess aboard Royal Caribbean's Enchantment of the Seas in early 1998 when she got sick and had to leave the ship. She was earning about $2,500 a month in tips, or roughly $80 a day, but her sick pay was $12.50 a day.
When she questioned the discrepancy, she discovered that $12.50 was set by a collective bargaining agreement with the Norwegian Seaman's Union. The agreement also permitted Royal Caribbean to fire Ms. Gheorghita and stop her sick pay at the end of the seven-day voyage, even though she had a six-month contract.
Instead of being protected, Ms. Gheorghita discovered that a union to which she did not know she belonged had bargained away some of her rights under American maritime law, according to a suit she filed in federal court in Miami against Royal Caribbean.
The non-Norwegian workers, who make up the majority covered by the agreement, did not have union cards, never attended union meetings or voted for officers, and did not approve the contract terms, according to the complaint. It also said most workers, like Ms. Gheorghita, did not even know they were in a union, in part because Royal Caribbean paid the $300,000 a year in dues directly to the union, rather than deduct them from paychecks.
Cynthia Rose Bernard, a lawyer for Royal Caribbean, said in court papers that the company had negotiated in good faith with the union. The terms were incorporated in Ms. Gheorghita's contract, Ms. Bernard said, and a company official testified that workers were given copies of the union agreement when they were hired.
Royal Caribbean is registered in Liberia, and its ships fly Liberian and Norwegian flags. When asked in a deposition last year if he knew what benefits were provided by American maritime law, Johan N. Oyen, the director for the Norwegian union in Miami, insisted that American law did not apply.
"Norway is an independent country with its own constitution," Mr. Oyen said, "and we couldn't give a damn about American law under that respect and, you know, just as the United States doesn't give a damn about Norwegian law."
In an interview, Mr. Oyen defended agreements with Royal Caribbean, Norwegian Cruise Line and other companies, saying they represented the best wages and conditions available in the competitive market and met standards set by the International Labor Organization.
The Gheorghita case was tried before Judge William M. Hoeveler and a decision is expected soon. Had the cruise industry's Washington lobbyists succeeded three years ago, the Gheorghita case and others might never have been brought, at least in the United States.
The House approved legislation drafted by the industry, and sponsored by Rep. Don Young, Republican of Alaska, to prohibit foreign seafarers from filing suit in American courts in most instances. The cruise lines said most suits should be handled in the home countries of the seamen. The bill was blocked in the Senate and has not been resurrected.
Since then, cruise lines have had mixed success using other means to shift cases to foreign courts, where awards are sometimes smaller and the laws often prohibit lawyers from taking cases on a contingency basis, making it harder for aggrieved seafarers to find representation. Many companies put clauses in employment contracts requiring that suits be filed in the seaman's home country or the flag country of the ship. Even a distinctly American icon, the Walt Disney Company, has a clause designating that suits be filed in the Bahamas, where its ships are flagged.
Larry W. Kaye, a lawyer who represents cruise companies, said that nothing was unfair about requiring a seafarer to bring a case in his or her country and that legal remedies available elsewhere were often equivalent to those here or better.
"It is a mistaken premise to assume that we are the only nation with decent laws and a decent court system," Mr. Kaye said. "In certain third-world countries where the system doesn't function, they should have access to our courts. In other cases, they should litigate at home."
At a hearing in Miami-Dade County Circuit Court in October, Celebrity Cruises tried to persuade a judge that an injured Filipino's suit should be transferred to the Philippines because that country has a system to handle the claims. Celebrity is registered in Liberia, not the United States, but like many other cruise lines has an extensive operation here.
In rejecting the argument, Judge Paul Siegel said Celebrity was simply trying to escape the possibility of paying a substantial sum to the injured man, Noel Hitosis.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Credit lines yesterday for two photographs with an article about workers on cruise ships omitted the photographer's agency. They should have read: Alex Quesada/Matrix, for The New York Times.

 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Del Ray Miller, left, who injured his back while working on a cruise ship, has been staying in a Miami motel with another seaman, Arnold Beharry of Guyana. Mr. Miller, who has been in the motel for almost a year, is suing his employer. (Alex Quesada for The New York Times); Prem Prakashram Sukram, an engine room worker, said he was sent right back to work after breaking his ankle, and then had to sue for his medical expenses. (Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CRUISES (92%); MARINE VESSELS (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999



605 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Alternative Religions As a Growth Industry

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

 BODY:
National polls report that 19 in 20 Americans affirm a belief in God, and 4 in 10 claim to attend religious services regularly. But aside from revealing that religiosity runs higher in the United States than in most other economically developed nations, these polls don't say much about what people actually believe.
A growing number of scholars have begun to fill in the gap, however, working in an unconventional academic specialty they call new religious movements. This emerging field has not only attracted traditional religion experts but also psychologists, anthropologists and literary critics. It has even brought forth a separate study group within the American Academy of Religion called the New Religious Movements Group, for scholars interested in the topic. 
 The new field covers a broad band of beliefs and organizations outside the more familiar Christian and Jewish institutions, ranging from the exotic (spiritually oriented U.F.O. devotees) to the well-established (the Bahais), from the marginal and tragic (the suicidal Heaven's Gate group) to the large and upbeat (the evangelical Promise Keepers men's movement).
It is "a growth industry in the academy," said Phillip C. Lucas, an associate professor of religious studies at Stetson University in De Land, Fla. Mr. Lucas considers this an era of intense religious activity. Technology, especially the Internet and the ease of airline travel, has reduced both time and space, he explained, allowing people a wider access to beliefs and religious systems. ("So we can learn about Tibetan Buddhism, Shintoism or feng shui by surfing the Net," he said.) "One of the fascinating things about being a student of this field is there really is a paradigm shift going on."
Although new faiths are often summarily dismissed, yesterday's new religion may be today's powerhouse. Consider the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Mormons, which began with a handful of people in an upstate New York village in 1830 and now counts more than 10 million members worldwide.
William Ashcraft, a professor of religious studies at Truman State University in Kirksville, Mo., said that most new-faith adherents see themselves as set apart from the surrounding culture. "Scholars have come to think of these groups as anybody who is alternative to the mainstream," he said.
Brenda Brasher, assistant professor of religion at Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio, said, "I even put the Promise Keepers under that heading as a new religious movement, because it literally is, it emerged in the 90's. Even though it's out of a dominant tradition, the movement itself is new."
Mr. Ashcraft and Ms. Basher are coordinators of the New Religious Movements Group, which has held sessions on Christian Science, New Age beliefs, goddess worship, the Hare Krishnas, the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, new Hasidic groups, conversion, women's roles and attitudes toward violence.
Like most experts, however, they don't use the word cult. "Practically every religion we know of is labeled a cult in some country," Ms. Brasher said.
These scholars say it is not possible to tell the full history of American religion by focusing solely on Protestant churches, Roman Catholicism and the main branches of Judaism.
After all, the rise of new religious groups, the black Muslims for example, reflects tensions in society at large, resulting in pressures that make many people more receptive to ideas outside the established faiths.
The United States, home to an ethnically diverse population and the idea that a person can always begin again, has gone through spurts of new religious activity. One occurred in the second quarter of the 19th century after the Revolutionary War generation had died and new technologies like canals and railroads were reshaping American life.
The era included the heyday of the Shakers, a group then regarded as heretical because members believed Christ would take a female form at the second coming. That period also saw an surge in evangelical activity, the establishment of communes like Brook Farm in Massachusetts and the Oneida community in New York, and the rise and collapse of a movement around William Miller, a Bible student who repeatedly predicted the world's end in 1843-44.
More recently, the cultural upheavals of the 1960's helped diminish the social taboos against religious experimentation. As Mr. Lucas explained, "There is far less stigma attached to searching outside the mainstream when it comes to one's own religion." And today, new technologies are once again causing upheavals in American life. "I do think it's easier to be involved in a new religious movement now because of the Internet," Ms. Brasher said. "Geography is no longer destiny. It's easier for small religious groups to form. They've got a medium through which they can encourage each other."
Scholars whose research puts them in contact with new faiths can share their work in a new journal, Nova Religio: The Journal of Alternative and Emergent Religions, which is edited by Mr. Lucas. The current issue has five articles on the relationship between scholars of new religions and law enforcement agents. One discusses how scholars warned the F.B.I. not to exert heavy pressure on a group called the Freemen during its three-month standoff with federal agents in Montana in 1996.
"We advised that it would be counterproductive to take aggressive action against an apocalyptic group" that was "expecting conflict," writes Catherine Wessinger, a professor at Loyola University in New Orleans.
The standoff ended peacefully, in contrast to the fiasco that ended the clash between the Branch Davidians in Waco, Tex., and agents of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms and Tobacco in 1993.
Although experts point out that new religions vary widely, they do concede that those bitterly hostile to society have a potential for violence, like Aum Shinrikyo, the Japanese group that used poison gas in the Tokyo subway, or Jim Jones's People's Temple, which engaged in a mass suicide in the jungles of Guyana. They argue that a better understanding of these groups' beliefs may help government agencies deal peacefully with them, avoiding encounters that can lead to loss of life.
But containing violence isn't the only motive for the fascination with new religious movements. Many scholars argue that these groups are often the purveyors of more widely accepted ideas.
"In the alternative religions of today," Ms. Brasher said, "could be our habits and cultures of tomorrow. Some of those are very exciting and some of those are quite scary."
The Oneida community, for example, pioneered the concept of equality in work between men and women, and the Seventh-day Adventists pushed the case for healthier diets.
Citing a more modern instance, Mr. Lucas credited a small group, the Holy Order of MANS (which has since become affiliated with the Eastern Orthodox churches) with establishing shelters for victims of domestic violence in the early 1970's, before the idea caught on widely. He added that new religious movements in general had long provided more openings for women to be leaders.
And Mr. Ashcraft said the Shakers made a case for celibacy as an alternative at a time when the dominant Protestant culture viewed marriage and family as an imperative.
"Religion is the expression of humanity trying to make sense of the world," Mr. Ashcraft said. "I guess to me that's the reason I'm interested in new religions. I'm interested in how it is that people coming out of the same social context as the rest of us march to the beat of a different drummer."
"Does it indicate the way we might be going?" he asked. "Because often these groups are trendsetters."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scholars can no longer address American religion by focusing solely on Protestants, Catholics and Jews. Above, Hare Krishna followers at a parade. (Martin Adler Levick/Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF RELIGION (57%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF RELIGION (57%); STETSON UNIVERSITY (55%); STETSON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF RELIGION (57%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF RELIGION (57%); STETSON UNIVERSITY (55%); STETSON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (89%); MEN (87%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); LITERATURE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (55%); 

PERSON: NIEBUHR, GUSTAV BRENDA BRASHER (70%); PHILLIP C LUCAS (69%); WILLIAM ASHCRAFT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



606 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL;
Parcells Is Looking Ahead, but His Status Is Unclear

BYLINE: By GERALD ESKENAZI 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Dec. 24

 BODY:
Coach Bill Parcells said today that when the Jets' new ownership is approved -- probably within the next three weeks -- he will then meet to discuss whether he will return to the team next season and in what capacity. "Nobody's asked me," Parcells said. "I'm not allowed to talk to them."
But after a decision is made, the coach will have his chance to speak. "I'll have to," he said. 
 Parcells is finishing his third season of a six-year deal. The contract, which pays him $2.4 million a year, calls for Parcells to coach a minimum of four years. The Jets had originally hoped he would coach at least three years, but he insisted on a commitment of at least four years.
Parcells, meanwhile, said he has been running the team "like we own it." The Jets, owned by the estate of Leon Hess, face some severe financial decisions related to football in the coming weeks.
Thus, any new owner understands he will immediately have to pay millions of dollars in cash for some key contracts -- notably, re-signing the gifted linebacker Mo Lewis, and perhaps restructuring the multimillion-dollar deal that quarterback Vinny Testaverde signed last year.
Parcells has repeatedly said that the fact he is already working on next year's team is no indication he is definitely returning.
"It's what you have to do," he said.
Thus, Parcells added: "I have the name of every free agent in the league on my desk right now. We've spoken about all the hypotheticals."
In other words, he is going through the what-if scenarios with his salary cap expert, Mike Tannenbaum. "All during the interviewing process, the new owners have been kept abreast of the economic situation by Steve Gutman," Parcells said, referring to the club's president. "Steve and I talked this three months ago. They know about the cash flow and what's got to be done. Prospective owners know what they have to spend -- 'here's what we've got to do, fellas' -- so there won't be any surprises."
As for free agents, Parcells said the Jets are unlikely to go as heavily into that area as they did the last two years, when they brought in Testaverde, center Kevin Mawae, tight end Eric Green and free safety Steve Atwater, among others.
"But don't forget," Parcells said, "our draft choice situation is improving. People forget that."
Because of the club's mediocre record, the Jets could get a draft pick in the top 12.
In Parcells's three seasons, the Jets took only one player in the first round: linebacker James Farrior in 1997. Last year the Jets gave up their first-round pick to the New England Patriots to acquire Curtis Martin, and this season the Patriots also got the top pick as part of the deal that allowed Parcells to become the Jets' coach.
At least the Jets saved some money there by not having a first-round pick. Now the new owner will have to decide how much the team is worth, with or without Parcells.
 
EXTRA POINTS
The last time KEYSHAWN JOHNSON faced the Dolphins and cornerback SAM MADISON -- only two Sundays ago -- Johnson produced a career-high 11 receptions. Now Madison has a knee injury and is listed as probable, which means he will play but could have a problem. Johnson's election to the Pro Bowl kicked in a $500,000 bonus. His contract called for that amount if he met certain standards in any two of his first four years. . . . CHRIS HAYES, the Jets' special teams' leader, who has downed three punts inside the opponents' 5-yard line, has a swollen calf but will play. . . . This is the fifth time in BILL PARCELLS's career that one of his teams has played an opponent two times within three weeks. His clubs have posted a 4-0 record in second meetings in these situations. . . . The Jets have not made a 2-point conversion since Parcells took over. His teams last made one at New England in 1996. Overall, Parcells has seen 12 attempts fail; only about a third are made. . . . The Jets averaged 13.3 points in RICK MIRER's six starts, when they went 2-4. RAY LUCAS, though, is leading the club to an average of 19.7 points. The Jets have also gone 4-3 under Lucas. But Mirer did not have an injured WAYNE CHREBET in four of his starts. . . . Place-kicker JOHN HALL posted a 69.7 field-goal percentage his first two seasons. He has raised that to more than 78 percent this season and has converted all 14 of his attempts from 30 to 39 yards. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS ATHLETES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); 

PERSON: ESKENAZI, GERALD; PARCELLS, BILL LEON HESS (56%); VINNY TESTAVERDE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



607 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Despite Manitoba's Labor Gap, Indians Go Jobless

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: WINNIPEG, Manitoba

 BODY:
At first glance, it seems that this city's business establishment prefers its Indians from New Delhi rather than Dakota Tipi, a village 50 miles down the Trans-Canada Highway.
In Winnipeg, the city with Canada's largest unemployed aboriginal population, business leaders have begun a campaign to triple the number of immigrants lured annually to this heartland city nearly at the country's geographic center. 
 "Labor is our No. 1 constraint," said Bob Silver, owner of Western Glove Works Ltd. Among the 1,000 people sewing jeans at his factory here are workers from India, Laos, the Philippines, Ukraine, Vietnam and Yugoslavia, along with a few aboriginal Canadians. Unable to find more workers, Mr. Silver has set up shops in China and Mexico, as well as Quebec.
But while business owners complain of a labor shortage, aboriginal unemployment rates stubbornly hover around 20 percent.
"Why go abroad when we have so many resources right here?" asked Sean Kocsis, a Mohawk who directs the Aboriginal Business Development Center here. "We have a pool of individuals right here that could be tapped but are underutilized."
Manitoba's employment problem is a Canadian echo of a familiar paradox in the Great Plains of the United States.
Much as the American plains states constitute a low-unemployment belt, Canada's Prairie Provinces -- Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan -- have this country's lowest jobless rates, about 5.5 percent compared with a national average of 7.2 percent.
At the same time, Manitoba and Alberta recorded Canada's highest rates of economic growth last year, around 3.3 percent. Although still a Canadian granary, Manitoba now exports more manufactured goods than agricultural products, shipping books, buses, furniture and airplane parts to the United States.
"Shortage of qualified labor in Manitoba has been the fastest growing issue among our members," said Dan Kelly, local vice president for the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. "In Manitoba business owners are getting quite desperate to attract people."
But just the way Bismarck, N.D., records virtually no unemployment while nearby Indian reservations suffer double-digit jobless rates, there are two different societies in Manitoba, a province of 1.1 million people scattered over an area larger than France.
"Of 500 aboriginal adults we tested, 200 came out at grade five level," said Marileen McCormick, executive director of the Center for Aboriginal Human Resource Development, this city's largest job placement center for indigenous people. In Winnipeg dropout rates of aboriginal high school students are double those of the rest of the population. Half of the aboriginal households with children are headed by single mothers.
The waves of Indians migrating here from distant reservations often arrive with little conventional work experience, said Ms. McCormick, who is Metis. Accounting for about 20 percent of Canada's aboriginal population and concentrated in the Prairie Provinces, Metis are descendants of Plains Indians and European trappers and traders.
"We get people coming from generations of welfare," she said. "When anything happens in the family, in the community, they just go."
For years Canada, a largely urbanized country, could virtually ignore the rural reality of Indian Canada, throwing money at an invisible problem and hoping for gradual improvements. But now demographics and migration are forcing the issue. Since 1980, Canada's birthrate has dropped by one quarter. Now it is heading below the replacement level.
In contrast, indigenous Canada is enjoying a population explosion. With birthrates rising, half of Canadian aboriginal people -- North American Indians, Metis and the Inuit, or Eskimo, inhabitants of the far north -- are under 25 years old.
"There is probably no single more important issue for the economic future of the Prairies, particularly Manitoba and Saskatchewan, than the advancement of its aboriginal human resources," concluded a recent study by the Caledon Institute of Social Policy, a private research center based in Ottawa.
The demographic shift is striking in Winnipeg, a virtual city-state, which encloses 60 percent of Manitoba's population within its beltway.
Within 15 years aboriginal people are expected to account for as much as a quarter of the working-age population. At the same time, retirement looms for waves of plumbers, welders, electricians and carpenters -- skilled tradesmen whose average age here is 50.
"The key is education," said James Carr, president of the Business Council of Manitoba, a private group that seeks to draw aboriginal workers into Manitoba's economic mainstream. "The number of aboriginals entering and completing high school is doubling, tripling, quadrupling -- the same for our community colleges."
In a mentoring program, 10 Business Council member companies have established close relationship with aboriginal companies, a program that Mr. Carr plans to expand soon to all 50 member companies. In addition the council is promoting aboriginal hiring policies and spotlighting aboriginal "role models," or success stories.
As these and other efforts start to take effect, the face of Winnipeg, a white-bread city that once fancied itself as "the Chicago of the North," is gradually changing.
"When I started here, in 1982, aboriginal people didn't work in banks, in stores," Ms. McCormick recalled. "You could count the number of aboriginal apprentices on the fingers of one hand. Now we are placing 1,200 people a year."
Reflecting growing consumer clout, advertisements in Manitoba's two new aboriginal monthly newspapers, Grassroots News and The Drum, included the following phrases recently: "aboriginal-owned and -operated," "Ray Scaife, your First Nations automobile sales consultant" and Richard Harris, "your aboriginal tire expert."
Winnipeg's mayor, Glen Murray, is pushing to expand the number of aboriginal officers on the city police force.
In a sign of aboriginals' growing political clout here, Ms. McCormick's employment center and a host of other native groups now occupy a grand building downtown that once was the passenger terminal for the Canadian Pacific Railroad.
The center is the keystone for a multimillion-dollar aboriginal development that is to include a park, a sweat lodge, a roundhouse, a market, an art gallery, a youth center and the headquarters of the provincial Metis federation.
With such activity going on, some aboriginal leaders do not see a threat in the business community's goal of bringing in 8,000 immigrants a year. Although the basement of the old railroad terminal still contains quarantine holding cells for just-arrived immigrants, no one at the Indian Center upstairs talks of putting them back into use.
"In Canada we are such a massive country with such a small population," said Mary Richard, a Metis, who directs the aboriginal urban renewal program from the old rail terminal. "I don't see immigration as interfering with what our community is working on."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students in an English literacy program at the Winnipeg Aboriginal Center working on a writing assignment.; A community center for aboriginal people is being built in Winnipeg. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Map of Canada highlighting Winnipeg: Winnipeg once fancied itself as "the Chicago of the North."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (77%); UKRAINE (73%); 

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (99%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANITOBA (CANADA); WINNIPEG (MANITOBA); CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (77%); UKRAINE (73%); MANITOBA, CANADA (99%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; INDIANS, AMERICAN; FOREIGN LABOR; SHORTAGES LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



608 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: 'Treading Water To Save My Life';
A Cherished Key to a Home After Years on the Street

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Police officers in Greenwich Village still remember her, the crazy, homeless bag lady who screamed at passers-by on Eighth Street in the 1980's, begged for spare change, or thrust her mad poetry into startled hands.
Time and again, when she got too wild or the weather grew too bitter, the police carted her off to a psychiatric ward or a jail cell. Time and again, she returned to forage for food in garbage cans, to call out her love for the universe in an ecstasy of mania and marijuana, or to rail at the rich who walked by her on the sidewalk. Once, she even punched a stranger in the nose and sent his glasses flying. 
 This skinny, disheveled woman who called herself Jane seemed to exemplify homelessness as an intractable problem. Yet today, recalling that period as "treading water in the freezing water to save my life for 11 years," the woman, whose real name is Jill Flesch, kisses the apartment key she wears around her neck.
It opens the door to her sunny studio off Times Square, one of 55 such apartments in Ivan Shapiro House, a supported housing development for formerly homeless mentally ill men and women. For the last two years, Jill Flesch has found a home there.
"It's unspeakable to have my own place," Ms. Flesch said, her high voice tremulous as she showed a visitor the Chinese lantern she had hung in the window, the Canon photocopy machine that is her prize possession, the soft bed artfully piled with pillows worthy of a Ralph Lauren ad.
The journey there was not short or easy. It included years of trial-and-error medications, some with fearsome side effects. It was punctuated by multiple hospital stays, some on wards where, she said, she was raped and beaten by other patients. It took the special persistence of a caseworker and a psychiatrist at Project Renewal, a group residence for the mentally ill where Ms. Flesch spent seven years making the transition from life on the street to life in an apartment. And in the end, it took a vacancy at a place like Ivan Shapiro House.
At a time marked by public anxiety over the mentally ill on the streets and a debate over shelters versus sidewalks, success stories like Ms. Flesch's are often unheard. But both advocates for the mentally ill and government officials say supported housing, with its 24-hour supervision and links to medical and social services, is quietly making a difference. They say places like Ivan Shapiro House have proved a humane and cost-effective solution to the troubled street odyssey of 4,000 mentally ill people previously cycled through hospitals, jails and shelters.
Ms. Flesch's own memory of homelessness is still fresh, even as she spends her third Christmas in her cozy home. She especially shudders at her recollections of the city's shelter system, which has improved dramatically since she experienced it but at its entry points remains frightening for the mentally ill.
"A shelter, it's a million times worse than the street," Ms. Flesch said. "Two hundred desperately poor, insane, drugged people -- you're just in fear of your life and you can't get out. On the street there's space, people at a distance."
But even Ms. Flesch, who sometimes veers into a riff on the unbeatable freedom of street life, has not forgotten how grim it was at its worst. "I remember sitting on the sidewalk saying, 'How could anybody stand being this cold?' " she wrote in a four-page autobiography that fairly twinkles with her quirky wit. "Then I blanked out. God does that. The people think you're suffering madly. But really, nobody home."
Another time, she began screaming "I hate you!" at passing crowds with shopping bags. "I was very cold and tired," she recalled. "You see them with the clothes, very rich, and all going to the fancy restaurants. 'Excuse me, you're spending $50 having fun on lobster and steak and I'm two steps away from you?' "
Writing about that episode, she added: "I'm sorry I said I hate you. I love my population. After smoking 8 to 10 joints I really loved them. You need drugs and alcohol to kill the pain."
The diagnosis of Ms. Flesch's mental illness has varied over time -- schizo-affective disorder with bipolar features is the current label. Her symptoms erupted in late adolescence, but she says she began hearing voices at 3. She is 50 now.
"I've never actually had my own place in my life," she said, leading a visitor past a refrigerator festooned with her notes to herself: "When manic write and make art," says one. "Get banking slip Monday," reminds another.
Born into a wealthy Westchester County family, for a time she was buffered from the economic consequences of her illness, which intersected with the drug-steeped Washington Square counterculture of the 1970's. Eventually, about the time she gave away her silver Honda to a homeless boyfriend, her father gave up on her.
In her years on the street, she was periodically arrested and jailed, usually for shoplifting pens and stationery to produce what she called "The 8th Street News," a cross between poetry and political tract that she photocopied using change collected by panhandling. "It was brief and to the point," she wrote, offering this sample:
"1/2 the population is rich, the other 1/2 works!"
Ms. Flesch fit neither category. "I love to write and make art," she said. "I tried every type of work in the world and always got fired."
She counts 32 admissions to mental hospitals, where she experienced the panoply of physically painful side effects that make psychotropic drugs unpopular with so many of those told to take them.
"I was in a revolving door for a long time," she said, recalling adult residences where she stayed briefly as "so much worse than the street: three people in a tiny little room, a broken washing machine in the basement, no coffee."
When she was back on the street, she considered beat officers of the 6th precinct "seraphim" -- angels who protected her from aggressors, bought her food and affectionately called her "coo-coo" when they carted her to Bellevue. One officer took her to the hospital when she was pregnant. She delivered, signed the baby over for adoption and came right back to Washington Square Park.
But in 1990, after a six-month stay in Rockland State Hospital, she was placed in the transitional residential treatment program run by Project Renewal on West 48th Street. "I lost my mind immediately and ran to the street, but they took me back," she recalled with the ruin of a sweet smile. (She stopped seeing dentists at 18 -- "I am not a masochist," she explains.)
Ms. Flesch was one of about eight residents to move to Ivan Shapiro House, on West 46th Street, when it opened. Placements at such facilities are hard to come by. After years of arguing between Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani over financing such supported housing, a compromise signed in October will add 1,500 apartments in the city. But critics of state mental health policy say that number falls far short of what is needed, especially considering that an apartment in supported housing can be a tenth of the cost of a place in a mental hospital or a jail and half the cost of a spot in a shelter.
Ms. Flesch's eyes filled with grateful tears as she spoke of Dr. Ralph Aquila, the staff psychiatrist at Project Renewal who helped make her transition possible. "You know when yarn gets in a tangle?" she asked, likening her mind to a snarled skein of wool. "But with patience and time, all of a sudden you've got brand-new, ready-to-go yarn."
Not that her illness is gone. Keeping it under control is a job, centered on a day treatment program called the Post Graduate Center, and medication.
She is poor. That is usually a side effect of disabling mental illness, which typically starts before patients have qualified for Social Security disability payments. Instead they must apply for Supplemental Security Income, or S.S.I., a poverty program with lower benefits and fluctuating eligibility standards.
Thousands like Ms. Flesch were denied S.S.I. during the Reagan administration, and many became homeless. This year, Ms. Flesch received $7,500 as part of the settlement of a federal class-action lawsuit over those wrongfully rejected. The catch was that she had to spend the windfall within two months, or she would lose continuing benefits of about $85 a week.
Caseworkers urged her to fix her teeth. Instead she got a photocopy machine -- "the dream of a lifetime" -- and spent the rest to buy things of beauty on impulse.
"It was just like having all the money in the world," she exulted, pointing out delights from her spree: a tiny embroidered $500 Pakistani wedding dress; tendrils of fake ivy climbing one wall; Indonesian puppets; and, right beside a $2 rug she bought in the street, one just as small that cost $2,000.
"I have always my whole life said I was the luckiest person in the world," she declared, cradling her house key in both hands. "I don't know how I became so fortunate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though born into wealth, Jill Flesch was broke, homeless and battling mental illness until she found lasting help. Her prize possession now: a photocopy machine. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SQUARE ONE (55%); IVAN SHAPIRO HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IVAN SHAPIRO HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS HOMELESSNESS (91%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); CANNABIS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); PRISONS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (76%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: FLESCH, JILL; BERNSTEIN, NINA RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



609 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Landlords Around the U.N. Find Diplomacy Doesn't Pay

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
The minister of the Mission of Guinea-Bissau sat in his darkened office one afternoon last week, near a large window overlooking East 43rd Street.
The minister, Joao De Gama, was working alone in the seven-room office because the mission's staff, once eight people, has been cut, for the most part, to one: Mr. De Gama. He was working in darkness because the landlord recently cut off the electricity. 
 Guinea-Bissau has not paid the rent in 15 months. Mr. De Gama keeps his cell phone handy because the office phone service has also been disconnected.
There was more activity a block away, at the Liberian Consulate, at 820 Second Avenue, as officials in suits paced around the 13th-floor office suite with cell phones. Again the office was almost completely dark.
A secretary in one pitch-black room turned on a battery-powered camping lantern to tell a reporter that late last month, the building's management cut the electricity to the mission and consulate, which has not paid its rent in five months, an outstanding bill of roughly $50,000.
Both countries are getting over wars in their homelands and have interim governments that are not financing the missions. Landlords say this is not a unique situation around the United Nations. At any given time, several diplomatic offices are having financial difficulties.
In their darkest hours, the missions of economically wobbly, and often warring, countries often stop paying rent (and salaries) without permission. Those rules also make it illegal for landlords to evict tenants with diplomatic status.
Even court judgments ordering diplomats to pay back rent cannot be enforced, so landlords apply pressure by cutting electricity, heat and sometimes phone service. So an African civil war can really hang up a landlord in Turtle Bay, the East Side neighborhood near the United Nations.
Liberia and Guinea-Bissau are among 19 countries that have not paid their United Nations dues in at least two years. Liberia lost its voting rights in the Security Council, said Farhan Haq, a United Nations spokesman, but Guinea-Bissau has been allowed to keep its vote because of "extenuating financial hardship."
Pulling the plug on deadbeat diplomats is more problematic in New York City than in other parts of the world, because office space is coveted and expensive, Mr. Haq said.
"Rents around here are very high," he said, and that poses a special hardship for poorer countries.
In 1984, Rwanda's new government refused to pay expenses incurred by its previous government, Mr. Haq said. And just before Zaire became Congo, the outgoing Zaire ambassador took some appliances from the mission and began conducting business out of his New Jersey home.
"There is a real history of missions having problems paying rent and maintaining their facilities," Mr. Haq said. "Desperate things happen during change of governments, but it's really between them and their landlord and the City of New York. Diplomatic immunity protects them from legal penalty while doing their diplomatic work, so we stay out of it."
Melvyn Kaufman, who is a part owner of several East Side office buildings, has had several diplomatic tenants that stopped paying rent but stayed in the offices, often without electricity, telephones or even heat. Mr. Kaufman has won various judgments for millions of dollars over the years, but has never gotten any government agency to enforce them, so he will no longer rent space to diplomats. "We won't touch them anymore," he said.
Mr. De Gama of the Guinea-Bissau mission said that a yearlong civil war ended in his country in August, and the interim government had cut financing. With no salary, he said, he gets by using money from a modest expense account, but there is not enough to pay the $6,000-per-month rent, which includes utilities.
"It's hard to tell your landlord he should wait for the rent because your country's having a civil war," he said. "We didn't come here to cause problems, and we don't want to abuse our diplomatic security. It's embarrassing, but we have work to do. Where can we go?"
The mission's office building at 211 East 43rd Street is owned by Eastgate Realty. "We can't evict them," said Robert Hinds, a vice president of Eastgate, "so the only thing we can do is shut down their electricity and hope they pay. I tried contacting all the politicians, the governor, mayor, congressmen, the U.S. Mission. Nothing works."
Chad, Bolivia and Mauritius are also tenants and constantly late with rent, he said, but they eventually pay up. And then there is Bangladesh, he said: "One of the world's poorest countries. They pay like clockwork. It's unbelievable." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (94%); GUINEA-BISSAU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); RWANDA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (56%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; LIBERIA; GUINEA-BISSAU; LIBERIA (94%); GUINEA-BISSAU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); RWANDA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY; FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC COMMUNITY; RENTING AND LEASING; FINANCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EVICTION (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); CIVIL WAR (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); IMMUNITY (66%); 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY JOAO DE GAMA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



610 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Inverting the Pyramid in Egypt;
A Beer Maker Blossoms With Its Nonalcoholic Brew

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: CAIRO

 BODY:
When the Egyptian government put the national beer company up for sale a few years ago, nobody was buying.
Though the brewery had no competition and had been steadily turning a profit, it was a management nightmare. Workers lounged around reading newspapers or napping while grimy, ancient machines gushed foaming beer into dirty green bottles, often along with insects, twigs and clumps of dirt. The taste of the flagship Stella beer varied from one batch to another, and sales were falling. If all that were not enough headaches, beer drinking for many people in Egypt, a predominantly Muslim country, is considered a sin. 
 But Ahmed Zayat, an Egyptian entrepreneur who had earned degrees at Harvard and Boston University and flourished at Wall Street firms specializing in real estate and leveraged buyouts, spotted potential where others saw only pitfalls.
Nearly three years after taking control of Al Ahram Beverages Company -- which required some inventive negotiating and a high-flying stock offering on the London Stock Exchange -- Mr. Zayat, 37, has turned the bedraggled enterprise into one of the best-performing companies in Egypt.
With the help of consultants from Carlsberg, the Danish brewer, he has begun turning out first-rate beer. Moreover, Al Ahram has gained enough respectability that early next year it will also begin producing Carlsberg and Guinness beers.
Best of all, he has found that the real profit may be in a line of nonalcoholic beers -- some with apple, lemon and strawberry flavors -- that has been flying off the shelves. "It tastes like beer," said Fatenn Mostafa, the director of marketing whom Mr. Zayat hired away from PepsiCo, "and it's a little naughty."
While expanding sales across Egypt with a blitz of television advertising, an army of sales representatives and a fleet of trucks that provide home delivery -- all new tactics here -- Mr. Zayat has begun exporting nonalcoholic beer to Saudi Arabia and is gearing up to move into other Middle East, African and Asian countries, particularly places like Nigeria and Indonesia with big Muslim populations. Sales revenue jumped 60 percent in the year ended June 30, and profits rose nearly 30 percent, to $26 million.
Mr. Zayat's success has been a catalyst for a new wave of investment in Egypt. The beer company was just one of more than 300 state-owned companies that the Government had been hoping to sell as Egypt took the lead in a shift across the Middle East from top-down control and state ownership to the more freewheeling style of capitalism. For most investors and investment bankers, the companies, all troubled, had been a yawn. But when they saw what Mr. Zayat was able to do with Al Ahram, they began searching for other diamonds in the rough.
"He's been a model for other investors," said Josse Dorra Fiani, the president of Fiani & Partners, a Cairo consulting firm.
Before Mr. Zayat closed his deal in early 1997, five state-owned companies had been sold since the privatization push began in the early 1990's. Now the number is 18, with two state-owned cement companies bought by corporations in Mexico and Britain in recent weeks. Government officials say more than a dozen other deals are in the works.
"We're seeing a different attitude," said Mokhtar A. Khattab, an undersecretary in the Ministry of Public Enterprise, the clearing house for the sale of state-owned companies. He added, however, that he thought some of the new enthusiasm was the cumulative effect of years of Government effort.
Mr. Zayat, puffing on a Cuban cigar late one evening in his office at the brewery, said that investors who passed up a chance to buy the company "totally misunderstood the opportunity."
He managed to take over the brewery for about $70 million, only about one-third the government's asking price. That so angered some government officials that they still find it hard to applaud his achievements. But it demonstrated to investors that Cairo could be flexible -- something many had doubted. And he has shown the government that the sale price is only one part of a successful transaction.
Besides helping to attract other investors, Mr. Zayat has fulfilled several other goals of the government's privatization program. He has begun contributing to Egypt's export earnings and he has inspired a group of local investors to start a new beer company, creating competition and new jobs in a country with unemployment of around 10 percent.
When a third beer company was about to start up, Mr. Zayat, whose company has an overwhelming share of the domestic market, concluded that too much competition too soon might not be good. So he bought out the fledgling company as part of his expansion.
To get started in the wine business, he went back to the government and bought its small wine maker, taking another company off the state's inventory. Mr. Zayat, whose company already sells soft drinks, said he plans to introduce vodka, Scotch and other hard liquors, aiming them at Egypt's tourist trade and its growing population of affluent, foreign-educated young people.
No one would have predicted such success. There was so little interest among big investors in Egypt's state-owned companies that the government sold more than 80 of them piecemeal on the Cairo stock exchange. Out of frustration, it liquidated nearly 30 other companies it deemed unsalable.
When no investor was willing to buy the beer company, the government turned to the local stock market. But the brewery's reputation was so bad and so many local investors were reluctant to add a "sin stock" to their portfolios that the government cut back an initial public offering in mid-1996 to 5 percent of the company, and settled for an offering price of $4.925 a share adjusted for a recent stock split, rather than a hoped-for $6.25. It sold two other similarly sized blocks of the company to two big Egyptian institutional investors and gave another 10 percent to employees.
The poor reception in the local stock market helped Mr. Zayat talk down the price for the remaining 75 percent. His real estate experience helped him, too. The government wanted nearly $200 million in exchange for the stake, in part because the main plant, more than 100 years old and looking like a crusader's castle, sits on some of Cairo's most valuable real estate, near the center of town and just across the street from Cairo University.
But Mr. Zayat wanted to buy a business, not invest in real estate. So he proposed that the government keep the land, but lease it to him for five years. Meanwhile, he would build a $50 million advanced brewery like nothing the Middle East had ever seen, in the desert on the outskirts of Cairo.
He bought the land at less than market price as an anchor developer in a new industrial village the government was starting. As part of the package, Mr. Zayat negotiated a 10-year tax holiday on the new plant.
In November 1996, the government finally accepted a bid from Mr. Zayat of $5.51 a share, adjusted for the split, or 11 percent more than the disappointing offering price on the Cairo exchange. Today the stock is worth $19.85 a share.
Reaching his goal took 18 months and 22 negotiating sessions. Mr. Zayat's meetings with platoons of government officials often ran more than 12 hours. "One time," he said, "I spoke 16 hours and ended up with everybody in the room asleep but me and the person I was talking to."
Even after the government said yes, there was a problem: Mr. Zayat did not yet have $70 million. He had to sell the idea of selling beer to Muslims to international investors. He lined up a public offering of global depository receipts in London and set off on a road show across Europe and the United States that yielded Mr. Zayat not only enough money to pay the government but even more to pocket himself.
"Half the people in the government are still asking, 'If he did it, couldn't we have done it?' " said Daniel C. Kurtzer, the American ambassador to Egypt.
Mr. Zayat paid his bankers and lawyers $10 million and came away with $25 million in instant profit for himself and a handful of American backers. After all the financial wizardry, Mr. Zayat and his backers wound up with a 12 percent stake in the company.
Mr. Zayat has taken a creative approach to running his business as well. He started home delivery because the government limits the licensing of outlets for beer and because he correctly guessed that people who might be embarrassed to go into a beer store would be happy to have a few cases discreetly brought to their door. Stymied by a government ban on advertising alcoholic drinks, he has employed a Trojan horse technique, filling the airwaves with spots for nonalcoholic beer that look very much like beer ads in Europe and the United States and that have done wonders for both types of products.
Before the government sale of the brewery, one would-be investor had estimated that it could be run with a tenth of its 3,200 employees. But with wholesale dismissals forbidden by the government, Mr. Zayat set out instead on a total reorganization. He cut the production force to about 800 and hired experts from Carlsberg's consulting unit. He transferred hundreds into the brewery's new sales force and assigned others to work in warehouses or as drivers. About 300 people accepted early retirement.
He also created a group of inspectors and put them in charge of quality control. He ended a committee system of management, raised salaries, provided stock bonuses for employees and replaced the brewery's six-day workweek of six-and-a-half-hour shifts with a five-day, 8 a.m to 5 p.m. routine. Now, with business booming, Mr. Zayat says, he has more employees than when he started.
Mr. Zayat brought the plant into the late 20th century with some simple equipment that speeded up work enormously. When he arrived there were four telephones; now there are 1,600. He raised the number of desktop computers, from four to more than 300, and fax machines, from one to dozens. And he nearly doubled the delivery fleet to 450 trucks.
To improve quality control, he installed a simple plastic sheet to keep dirt and bugs from falling into beer bottles as they trundled along a conveyor, and he bought an X-ray machine to examine every filled bottle.
Mr. Zayat said he always planned to expand the brewery's product line. But even he has been bowled over by the nearly 400 percentincrease in the volume of nonalcoholic beer sales.
"It's our future," said Ms. Mostafa, Mr. Zayat's marketing director.
About 90 percent of the company's profit used to come from regular beer, she said, but in three years, even with continued growth in beer sales, the proportion is expected to fall to 45 percent.
"We will never succeed in getting every Egyptian to drink beer," Ms. Mostafa said. "It will always be a Muslim country. But nonalcoholic beer has all the elements to succeed. It's very healthy. It doesn't have caffeine.
"It looks like beer. It tastes like beer. But it's religiously accepted."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ahmed Zayat, left, the chief executive of Al Ahram Beverages, has turned the company into one of Egypt's best performers. A new $50 million plant was built near Cairo. (Barry Iverson for The New York Time)
 
Chart: "Adding Some Kick to Privatization"
The turnaround at Al Ahram Beverages in Egypt has helped invigorate what was a faltering attempt by the Egyptian government to sell its business interests to the public.
 
Graph tracks change in share price since February 1997.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Egyptian Ministry of Public Enterprise)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL AHRAM BEVERAGES COMPANY ACTRIS AG (90%); AL AHRAM BEVERAGES CO SAE (56%); PEPSICO INC (53%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AL AHRAM BEVERAGES COMPANY BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; EGYPT (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEVERAGES; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ISLAM FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); BEVERAGE MFG (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); BREWERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MFG (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); RELIGION (75%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ZAYAT, AHMED; TREASTER, JOSEPH B AHMED ZAYAT (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



611 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Bond Investors Showing Less Year-End Fear

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
For much of this year, the question in financial markets has been: What happens if there are real computer-generated problems at the turn to the Year 2000? But as 1999 closes -- and as the fears of Year 2000 fade -- the question has changed to: What if there are no Year 2000 computer problems?
That switch in sentiment, prompted in part by the Federal Reserve's efforts to assure that the markets function as smoothly as possible at year's end, has already helped push Treasury interest rates higher. Investors simply have decided that they do not need the safe harbor of the government securities market. 
 Treasury interest rates are likely to move even higher in early January if, indeed, Year 2000 turns out to be not much more than a computer blip. And that means the yield on the 30-year bond, which was at 6.49 percent Thursday, should easily shoot past 6.50 percent, the highest it has been since September 1997. (Financial markets in the United States were closed Friday in observance of the Christmas holiday.)
To be sure, the main force driving all interest rates higher recently has been a growing consensus among investors that the Federal Reserve will be forced to raise its short-term interest rate target a quarter of a percentage point at least twice early next year to slow economic growth to a noninflationary pace.
That fear has helped push the yield on the 30-year bond up almost half a percentage point since mid-November. The yield on the two-year note, which is more sensitive to Fed rate moves, is at 6.23 percent, the highest it has been since May 1997.
The Fed has already raised its short-term interest rate target three-quarters of a percentage point in three quarter-point moves this year. But the 5 percent growth rate of the nation's gross domestic product in the last six months is still well above the central bank's speed limit.
Federal Reserve officials made their worries about the pace of growth clear in the statement they issued after their policy-making meeting Tuesday. Though they left their short-term interest rate target unchanged, at 5.50 percent, and did not indicate that their next move would be a rate increase because, they attributed that stance to "market uncertainties associated with the century date change."
Indeed, they said that they still remained "concerned with the possibility that, over time, increases in demand will continue to exceed the growth in potential supply, even after taking account of the remarkable rise in productivity growth."
Such trends, the statement continued, "could foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economy's exemplary performance."
But the recent performance of corporate bonds and riskier high-yield junk bonds, in comparison to the Treasury market, shows that investors are also getting back some of their appetite for risk, a signal that they are less worried about Year 2000.
Since Nov. 5, when the yield on the 30-year bond was 6.05 percent, it has risen 44 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. In that same time, the yield on junk bonds is up just 12 basis points, while corporate bond yields are up 35 basis points.
According to Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Honeig & Company in Rye Brook, N.Y., those numbers show that investors are selling government notes and bonds and buying corporate bonds because they do not think they need the protection that the essentially risk-free Treasury market provides.
The selling, of course, adds to the pressure on Treasuries. And if there are no bad computer glitches at the turn of the year, the probability of problems "goes from small to zero, and you have to conclude that the last vestige of Y2K hedges will be unwound," Mr. Barbera added. That would mean more selling and even higher Treasury yields.
"I think Treasuries have more to give up," he said.
The Federal Reserve should get just as much credit for this relaxation of Year 2000 fears as it gets for the fears that it will raise its interest rate target next year.
Central bank officials have been aggressive in their efforts to assure that financial markets would not seize up near the end of 1999 and the start of 2000. Officials were worried, in part, that just the fear of computer problems -- even if they never occurred -- would force many corporations and financial institutions out of the market at year-end and leave others without the ability to raise cash to meet ordinary needs.
The Fed's reassurance campaign was capped in October, when the central bank announced the sale of a form of Year 2000 insurance. In seven separate weekly auctions, the Fed sold options that would guarantee the availability of billions of dollars in ready cash between Dec. 23 and Jan. 12. In the seven auctions, the Fed sold $481 billion of insurance, easily enough to make a lot of investors feel comfortable. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; FORECASTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); INTEREST RATES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); SPEED LIMITS (66%); CHRISTMAS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



612 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latin America Tackling Possible Computer Woes

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Dec. 24

 BODY:
Approximately 37,000 clients of Banco Itau S.A., one of Brazil's largest banks, got a glimpse last month of the problems Latin Americans might encounter from the Year 2000 computer problem when they received a letter saying certain fees would be charged to their accounts as of Jan. 4, 1900.
The bank, which attributed the mix-up to human error and not to its technology, quickly remedied the problem with follow-up correspondence correcting the date to 2000. But doubts remained, since Itau was said to be among the region's best prepared companies for the Year 2000 problem, having invested more than $30 million to prepare its computers. 
 With a week to go, no one is quite sure what the fallout will be from Latin America's mixed approach to dealing with the Year 2000 problem. According to analysts dealing with the issue, some of the region's poorest countries, like Paraguay, are drastically ill-prepared, while other nations, like Chile and Mexico, planned ahead and budgeted funds to sufficiently adapt their government computers.
Still, there appears to be a consensus emerging among the people who have been rushing to prepare the region for the changeover to the year 2000: The parts of Latin America most at risk are also the most technologically advanced, while the most underdeveloped regions, while they will almost surely also be affected by the problem, are not likely to suffer as much as the region's pockets of relative wealth.
"It's like bank-robber logic," said Dale Vecchio, a research director at the Gartner Group, a consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn., that has examined preparations for the bug around the world. "Bank robbers search out the bank with the most money, just like Y2K will affect the societies with the most technology."
Perhaps nowhere in Latin America is this relation played out with greater tension than in Brazil, the region's largest country with 165 million people. While many parts of Brazil are relatively underdeveloped and not that dependent on technology, cities like Sao Paulo are highly wired. Ground zero for Brazil's race to prepare for the problem could be said to be along the banks of the Pinheiros, a murky river flowing through this city.
Flanking the Pinheiros are several dozen skyscrapers that developers built during the last decade as Brazil opened its economy in an embrace of foreign technology and investment. These structures, wired with state-of-the-art fiber optics, guarded by a legion of armed security personnel and topped with helicopter landing pads, have spent the last year being prepared to deal with the Year 2000 computer problem.
For Sylvio Roth, the technician in charge adapting computer systems for Jones Lang LaSalle, a London-based skyscraper-management firm that manages some of Sao Paulo's most exclusive commercial buildings, this means his schedule has been put into overdrive. Mr. Roth heads a team stocking up on electricity generators, diesel fuel and water supplies. Concerned with the possibility of a surge in crime after the new year, provisions are also being made for additional armed security forces.
"We've screened our buildings for possible problems, but now our priority is contingency," said Mr. Roth. "We're going to make sure our clients can do business for five to 10 business days after the first of the year, but this depends on things outside our control, like the capacity of electricity utilities and telephone companies."
For the most part, large companies in Brazil are generally prepared for the Year 2000 changeover, thanks in part to the fact that many state firms, including many utilities, were privatized in sales to foreign concerns during the last few years. And the federal government has said its computers will prove resistant to the problem.
Still, while it is generally acknowledged that most large companies could fare decently, many small firms which have not recognized the magnitude of the problem could suffer and thus put a drag on some parts of the economy, analysts said. This mixed approach has created worries in large countries like Brazil, but other nations, like nearby Paraguay, offer a striking contrast in their Year 2000 preparations.
The poorest and most politically and economically unstable member of Mercosur, the customs union also including Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, Paraguay is considered one of the least-prepared countries for the Year 2000 problem. Things were made worse recently when Walter Schafer, the country's coordinator to deal with the issue, was dismissed after foreign news reports called attention to Paraguay's lack of preparation.
"The people in power got worried about Paraguay's image abroad," said Mr. Schafer in a telephone interview from Asuncion , Paraguay's capital. "We Paraguayans have so much else to worry about that it's no wonder our effort to deal with the bug was too little, too late, and now almost nonexistent."
Indeed, for the time being, the small country of 5 million seems to have more pressing problems to deal with. In late November, rumors swept Asuncion that some members of the armed forces were planning a coup. Authorities loyal to President Luis Gonzalez Macchi arrested 14 army members suspected of disloyalty.
According to Carlos Guedes, the official at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington responsible for coordinating the institution's efforts to help Latin American countries deal with the computer problem, Paraguay's situation is similar to that of other small countries in the region, like Guatemala and Bolivia. In an attempt to help countries like these prepare for the problem, the bank this year opened a $200 million emergency credit line to finance computer upgrades.
"Some of these countries have been hurt by natural phenomena like hurricanes and a decline in the prices of their main commodity exports that make dealing with Y2K more difficult," Mr. Guedes said.
Ecuador is one country in the region that has suffered damage from natural disasters and, until recently, a weak market for oil, one of its main exports. Yet in a sign that the situation in places like Ecuador might actually be better off than some critics expect, the country, like most other Latin American nations, has organized a task force to deal with the Year 2000 problem.
Jacqueline Herrera, the official in charge of the task forces, said she is confident that crucial parts of the economy, such as electrical generation, telecommunications, water treatment and air travel, are prepared for the potential effects.
"We're better prepared than a lot of people might expect," said Ms. Herrera. "And we're in constant contact with other task forces in Latin America, so we know that our efforts are in line with others."
The saving grace of countries like Ecuador and Paraguay may lie in their relatively unsophisticated computer networks when compared with those in rich industrialized nations, or even those in more prosperous Latin American countries like Chile.
Even in those parts of Latin America where the Year 2000 problem might actually do damage, it is being shrugged off by many people. The relative nonchalance among Latin Americans to the issue might have something to do with their approach to the economic, political and social turbulence that have been common throughout the region's history.
"Latin Americans tend to be more passionate than their colleagues above the equator when it comes time to make a decision," said Max Gehringer, a Sao Paulo businessman who writes a column on corporate culture for Exame, Brazil's leading business magazine.
"In practical terms this means we either magnify a problem which really isn't that large or we underestimate something we don't understand entirely," said Mr. Gehringer. "Two things can happen on the first day of January: Either our companies will enter in reactive panic or an absence of problems will have us saying, 'See? It was all just hype.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Brazilian worker checked transformers at an electrical substation. Latin American countries are bracing for Year 2000 computer problems. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITUB3 (BOVESPA) (91%); ITUB (NYSE) (91%); JLL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); MEXICO (92%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (91%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; CHILE; MEXICO; PARAGUAY; BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); MEXICO (92%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FORECASTS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BANK ROBBERY (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); RIVERS (73%); ROBBERY (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON SYLVIO ROTH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



613 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Opportunities in a Rusting Romania

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: PLOIESTI, Romania

 BODY:
There probably is not another Raytheon office campus on earth where mangy dogs and underdressed students of the manicure arts wander the grounds.
But it is here, in the dormitories of a run-down vocational high school, that Raytheon is joining America's experiment with Romania's distorted economy. 
 It is going so well that the company is erecting a new $8 million office building across town. Instead of being upstairs from the car-repair, dressmaking and barber classes, Raytheon will be next door to Ploiesti's lone citadel of higher education: The University of Oil and Gas.
"No liberal arts here," chuckled Peter Stephenson, general manager of Raytheon's 300-person operation, which he plans to expand to 500. "You've got to be an oil-or-gas man. And we'll do our recruiting next door."
In cities across Romania, American companies are taking advantage of one of the legacies of Romania's dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu, who ruled for 25 years before he was overthrown and executed in 1989: Obsessed with industrialization, he nearly bankrupted his country building huge steel mills, oil refineries and factories. Many now lie rusting, but the engineering schools he added to Romania's already excellent school system still pump out graduates.
According to the Romanian-American Capital and Trade Development Group, Romania is top-heavy with engineers and has twice the number of computer-science graduates per capita that the United States does and seven times the rate in India.
And they work cheap. The economics can be compelling to companies like Raytheon, the military contractor based in Lexington, Mass. The average Romanian earns $1,000 a year; an engineer only twice that. For less than $5,000 a year, a foreign company can hire the best and brightest here to do work for which it would pay at least $60,000 a year in the United States.
Other American engineering companies here include Cambric Consulting of Draper, Utah, , which has 300 employees, and Harza Engineering of Chicago, which builds hydroelectric plants and has an agreement with the national Hydroelectric Institute to "borrow" 100 of its engineers for big projects. The institute's engineers earn paltry Romanian government salaries when there is no work, but several times that when Harza has work for them.
This may not be what some American workers want to hear, especially after the breakdown of World Trade Organization talks in Seattle early this month. But there is not even a loading dock they can picket. In place of a giant sucking sound made by these jobs going overseas is the quiet click of an Internet connection.
Indeed, it is unclear whether they are costing any American jobs at all. By providing an extra work force at a time when tens of thousands of engineering jobs advertised in the United States, they might enhance the prospects for American firms in the global marketplace.
Engineers here worked simultaneously with teams in Princeton, N.J., and Thailand on the design of a new Thai power plant; the model could reside on a computer in any country and the Romanians could work on it while the Americans were eating breakfast and the Thais were fighting the evening rush hour.
They helped design a polystyrene plant for Poland, a chemical plant for Equatorial Guinea, detergent and cigarette factories for Romania and a Pringle's potato chip factory for Belgium.
For their part, some Raytheon workers in Romania seem quite pleased with their new situation.
Doina Fortuna, 42, is a design technician who uses the computer model to extract blueprints for builders. Like approximately half her Raytheon co-workers here, she worked for decades at the Institute for Petrochemical Installation Design, a government institution privatized only three months ago. There, she worked on an easel with pens and T-squares; here she uses a $30,000 desktop computer, earns nearly triple her old pay, and has been sent to the Netherlands to learn new software.
She is not bothered by the campus, which despite its run-down surroundings, has roomy desks, sunlight and rugs on the floors. "I visited the institute a year ago, and I was afraid to go in the corridors because it was too dark, too small," she said. "You'll never see an office such as this there."
Ploiesti is not a pretty city -- aside from the clock museum and a few other buildings in an architectural style that might be called Addams Family Gothic, it is full of long rows of grim Stalinist apartment blocks. If the name sounds familiar, there was an earlier American connection: the legendary Ploiesti raids of World War II. Its refineries fueled Hitler's Panzer divisions, and the Allies were desperate to knock them out. Many bombers, hours from their bases in Italy, were shot down, and there is still a British military graveyard just south of town.
Ploiesti's oil boom began well before the internal-combustion engine. Peasants used to dig here for wagon wheel grease, said Marian Nicolescu, Raytheon's engineering manager, and its oil lit the streets of European cities back in the days when Pennsylvania, not Texas, was a wildcatter's dream. There are still five refineries in Ploiesti, which explains the concentration of engineering talent.
Cambric Consulting, probably the second-largest American employer of Romanian engineers and computer specialists, has 300 people in Brasov and Cluj. Brasov contains Romania's truck and tractor factories, and Cluj has industries and technical universities. Much of the Cambric work is converting two-dimensional drawings of engines and parts to three-dimensional computer models for clients like Deere & Company and Caterpillar.
Cambric's engineers are paid about $3,600 a year, with incentives for on-time work that can double their salaries. It also saves money on computers and software licensing fees by having its work stations in use 18 hours a day; employees work nine-hour shifts.
Similar work is done in India, but Cambric closed its 300-employee office in India three years ago and expanded its Romania operation from 12 engineers to 300. Asked about that, Viorel Scortaru Pasca, deputy manager of the Brasov plant, said he'd heard "the customers complained that the Indian engineers would say: 'Here's a problem. What do we do?,' while the Romanian engineers would say: 'Here's a problem. Here's how to solve it.' They were more creative."
Mr. Stephenson, a native of Australia, said he found Romanian engineers to be so highly educated "that we're probably overqualified -- even our human resources lady is a welding engineer. That's the beauty of what you find here." Fluency in English is about 50 percent, especially among the young. Older Romanians often speak French or Russian.
"The only problem with attitude," he said, "is a little too much respect for authority. They have trouble unfreezing. I like people to call me Peter, but there are still some who can't bring themselves to do that. But as far as the work ethic is concerned, there is no problem, no Communist hangover -- they do what has to be done."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mihaila Dac is an engineering team leader at a Raytheon plant in Ploiesti, Romania. Other American companies here are Cambric Consulting and Harza Engineering. (Donald G. McNeil Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map of Romanis shows location of Ploiesti: Ploiesti is home to five oil refineries, making it a haven for engineers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (90%); NTSC (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (83%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (83%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (83%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO RAYTHEON CO (90%); NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAYTHEON CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA; PLOIESTI (ROMANIA); ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (51%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; CEAUSESCU, NICOLAE (1918-89) NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



614 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Holiday Season's Retail Sales May Set a 5-Year High

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
The season started at 4:30 a.m. the day after Thanksgiving with shoppers lining up outside of Toys "R" Us in Atlanta to buy Pokemon cards, and it built from there.
Yahoo, the leading Internet portal, recorded more purchases through its Web site in five days this month than during its entire 1998 holiday season. In Manhattan, a Gap store ran out of $175 leather pants so fast that the sight of shoppers breaking into tears of frustration became common. 
 The millennium may turn out to be a bust, but by any measure Christmas 1999 was swinging.
Retailers will not officially report their December sales until early January, and many of the biggest shopping days are still to come with post-Christmas sales. Already, though, analysts are saying the nation's largest stores are on track to see a year-over-year rise in purchasing well in excess of 6 percent, making this the strongest Christmas since 1994. Some merchants are even whispering about a blowout.
The International Council of Shopping Centers, which tracks purchases in small stores in a cross-section of malls, was showing a 6.6 percent rise in sales through last weekend. "We might possibly see it go up to 8 or 9 percent," John Konarski, the group's president, said.
Telecheck Services, which tracks check writing at a broad swath of the nation's retailers, seconded that assessment. "We are looking at close to an 8 percent gain for retail sales for the month of December," said William Ford, a Telecheck official. "It is an amazing season for the retailers."
A copious holiday season makes a fitting, if not unexpected, climax to a year in which Americans -- encouraged by a soaring stock market and rising wages -- have indulged in a sustained shopping spree. And in keeping with their fattened wallets, shoppers showed a lust for the finer things in life -- though not necessarily at any cost. If the season has had any theme, it is luxury at all price points.
Whether it was packaged as gauze-thin v-necks by the discounters or as a $375 hand-woven Pashmina muffler in wildberry -- think deep pink -- at Saks Fifth Avenue, customers could not get enough cashmere. "I am getting cashmere for my mother, my sister and my housekeeper," said Catherine Russell, an actress in Manhattan who started her holiday shopping just Tuesday.
Sales of jewelry, a category whose performance is tied to the state of the economy, were up 10 percent, according to the shopping center group's surveys. Zales Inc. reported a tremendous interest in relatively affordable solo diamond pendants; at Neiman Marcus, the upscale department store chain owned by Harcourt General, sales of much more expensive baubles, like ruby and emerald bracelets, were "outstanding," according to Karen Katz, executive vice president of stores.
While luxury was the watchword, discounters hardly ceded their role as the 800-pound reindeer of the shopping season. Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, said it was going to meet expectations of sales growth of 5 to 7 percent, as consumers thronged its stores to buy everything from Thunder Punch Buzz, an action figure from the Disney "Toy Story 2" movie, to flat-screen televisions.
Electronics retailers also fared very well as Americans clamored for the latest digital cameras, DVD players and personal digital assistants. According to the shopping centers council, the electronics category had the single biggest increase in sales, up 14.6 percent from last year.
In keeping with recent trends, department stores, as a group, were not faring as well as the rest of the retailing pack. The week before Christmas, many resorted to deep price-cutting to meet sales expectations. Dillard's, in the most drastic example of the phenomenon, was offering "after Christmas prices" of up to 50 percent off many items.
The result may be that while the department stores will post solid sales numbers, their margins could be thin -- a possibility that Wall Street is watching carefully.
"A lot of retailers are giving it away this season," said John D. Morris, an analyst at Gerard Klauer & Mattison.
There was another casualty in this unusually flush season: customer service. Data from the Labor Department indicates that retailers did not substantially increase their staffs for the season.
"The retail employment numbers are down a little on a seasonal adjusted basis, which is remarkable, really," said Carl Steidtman, chief retail economist with Pricewaterhouse Coopers. Mr. Steidtman speculated that the slip was at least partly attributable to a tight labor pool and automated check-out technologies.
Whatever the reason for their absence, human helpers were sorely missed. "This was by far the biggest Christmas for complaining about sales help," said Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Research Group, which conducts annual holiday surveys among shoppers. "Some 33.8 percent of shoppers felt stores were too short-handed, which was nine points higher than last year, which was already an all-time high."
Internet merchants benefited from the public perception that brick-and mortar stores were a hassle -- and from heavy spending on advertising. Visa International, which accounts for about half of the nation's credit card spending, estimated that online purchases roughly tripled from November and December of last year.
"It was a Christmas of different proportions than last year," said Kenneth Seiff, chief executive of Bluefly.com, an online store featuring cut-rate designer fashions. "Instead of being a novelty, people were here to shop."
Mr. Seiff estimated that his company did more business in its two peak days, Dec. 13 and 14, than it did in the entire fourth quarter of last year. Items popular offline were in demand online as well. "We re-ordered Pashmina four times," he said.
Yet for all its geometric and well-publicized growth, Internet sales still only accounted for about $3 billion, or less than 2 percent, of what the National Retail Federation estimates was $186 billion in total holiday retail sales of general merchandise, apparel and furnishings. That meant plenty of people were sticking loyally to their local mall, despite the inconvenience of crowded parking lots and absentee sales associates.
Barbara and Larry Hudgins of Athens, Ga., shopped for their five children and six grandchildren at Rich's, a regional department store chain owned by Federated Department Stores. Though Mrs. Hudgins said she had had trouble finding a sales clerk to help her in the children's department, her husband, who owns an electrical contracting company, said he would not consider switching to the Internet.
"Right at the present time, I don't trust it," he said. "I don't trust anybody who wants my credit card and who I can't see."
Then there were last-minute shoppers who just did not trust Web merchants to deliver on time. John Suh, a lawyer shopping Thursday in Herald Square in Manhattan, said he had heard mixed reviews about the Internet and just wanted to "have my gifts in hand."
Across Manhattan, the nation's shopping capital, a holiday-swelled tourist population helped keep stores churning. At a new Banana Republic store at Rockefeller Center, Monica Karalis, a concierge fluent in five languages, had her mouth full flipping back and forth from Spanish to Italian to French as she helped customers track down items like pony-skin belts.
While apparel with "Y2K" and "Year 2000" logos racked up disappointing sales nationwide, merchants in New York said that the market for themed plates and stuffed animals was brisk enough.
"We found that anything that had 'New York' on it and the year 2000 in combination was instantly gone," said Joe Denofrio, a spokesman for Macy's Herald Square. Other hot sellers at the store included Champagne flutes with 2000 embedded in their stems ($19.99 a pair) and musical snowglobes of Times Square playing "Auld Lang Syne" ($35).
"It is the non-New York customer buying," Mr. Denofrio said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Not everyone has gone online to shop. Left, at the Quakerbridge Mall in Ewing, N.J., Mike Bohlinger tried to figure out how to carry all his packages. Stacy Cohen, right, took a break in Santa Monica, Calif. (Associated Press)(pg. B8)
 
Graph: "A Good Season" tracks percent change in holiday retail sales from the previous year. Excludes restaurant and automobile sales, since 1988.
(Source: National Retail Federation)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (58%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (58%); TELECHECK SERVICES INC (54%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET RETAILERS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); CHRISTMAS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); JEWELRY (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



615 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Steel Imports Decline for Fourth Month

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
Steel imports fell in November for the fourth consecutive month, the Commerce Department has reported.
On Thursday, the department said imports slid 9 percent, to 2.5 million metric tons -- a level 29 percent lower than a year ago. That followed drops of 5 percent in August, 10 percent in September and nine-tenths of 1 percent in October. 
 Several analysts called the trend cause for optimism. But some said the market had not yet recovered from an import surge last year, when the Asian economic crisis led to a high amount of foreign steel entering the United States. In response, the Clinton administration filed anti-dumping lawsuits against 30 nations, including Japan.
"The figures show a stable market," said Charles Butler, director of the Japan Steel Information Center. "There was never a crisis that many people talked about."
Greg Mastel, an economist at the New America Foundation, a research group in Washington, said the steel market "seems to be stabilizing a bit," although he added that "some sectors are having particular problems."
Imports of cold-rolled, semifinished and wire rod steel decreased from October levels. But imports of hot-rolled, cut-to-length plate and heavy structurals steel increased.
In the first 11 months of 1999, steel imports declined 16 percent from 1998 levels. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



616 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Yen Falls Against Dollar; Global Markets Extend Rally

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The yen posted its biggest decline against the dollar in more than a month yesterday after the Bank of Japan sold its currency for the 12th time since June.
At the same time, stock market records fell in Hong Kong, London and Paris, extending a pre-Christmas global rally. Financial markets in the United States were closed in observance of the Christmas holiday after staging a broad and powerful rally on Thursday. 
 The Bank of Japan sold an estimated $2 billion to $3 billion in yen in an effort to keep the country's economic recovery on track, analysts said, driving the currency to an exchange rate of 103.15 a dollar.
But the rate slid to 102.65 yen to the dollar at the close, though that was still up from the 101.78 yen late Thursday in London.
"It's year-end and the last thing the B.O.J. wanted was the yen to strengthen," said Divyang Shah, global strategist at IDEA Global.
The currency's move was exacerbated because many traders were absent on the day before Christmas. Japanese officials have sold more than $42 billion in yen since June to slow the currency's 10 percent gains against the dollar this year, which threatens to impede an economic rebound.
Japan's economy contracted for five consecutive quarters through last year, in the country's worst recession since World War II.
The stock market advance in Europe was paced by phone companies such as Sagem S.A., on optimism that rising demand will drive profits higher next year.
French retailers including Carrefour S.A. gained on expectations that consumers would spend more this holiday season than last.
"There's been continual upgrading of expectations for mobile phone growth all year," said Neville Reeves, who manages $100 million at Thames River Capital in London.
The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50, an index of 50 large European companies, advanced 14.81 points to a closing high of 4602.82, rising 3.3 percent for the week.
Markets in Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Spain and the Scandinavian countries were closed for Christmas. France's benchmark CAC 40 index rose to its 37th high close this year.
Sagem, a maker of mobile phones, climbed 54 euros, or 8.9 percent, to 658.5. About 4 million mobile phones will be given as Christmas gifts in Britain, double the number last year, The Financial Times reported. ARM Holdings P.L.C., Europe's top designer of chips for mobile phones, climbed 311 pence to 4.060.
The new high in Hong Kong is the first since August 1997, before the worst of the Asian financial crisis set in.
Lifted by Thursday's record session on Wall Street, Hong Kong stocks soared. The Hang Seng Index soared 537.20 points, or 3.3 percent, to close at 16,833.28, surpassing the previous record finish reached Aug. 7, 1997. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CRR (BIT) (82%); CA (PAR) (82%); SAF (PAR) (82%); ARMH (NASDAQ) (80%); ARM (LSE) (80%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (82%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN CARREFOUR SA (82%); SAFRAN SA (82%); ARM HOLDINGS PLC (80%); SAGEM SA ZWEIGNIEDERLASSUNG MAINZ (66%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; HONG KONG; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); EURO (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (64%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



617 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
An Emphasis on Gore's Experience

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

 BODY:

This 30-second commercial is the seventh from Vice President Al Gore. It discusses his experience and is being broadcast in Iowa and New Hampshire beginning this weekend.
 
PRODUCER Century-Media.
 
ON THE SCREEN -- The question is posed on a black screen: "How much experience does America need?" Live color shots of Mr. Gore with regular people appear sequentially as he talks about Social Security (he hugs an elderly person), schools (a teacher appears with children in a classroom), the environment (a spray of cherry blossoms) and the economy (a roof-raising). Mr. Gore appears at the end in a blue suit reviewing a piece of paper. 

THE SCRIPT -- A male voice narrates: "How much experience does America need? To protect Social Security from those who want to raise the retirement age? To really take on the big drug companies and get affordable prescription drugs? To fight against vouchers that drain money from public schools? To preserve Medicaid and strengthen Medicare? To keep our environment clean and our economy strong? How much experience does America need? All it can get."
 
ACCURACY -- There are no factual claims in this commercial, but there are several dubious implications. One is that the Social Security retirement age is unchanging. In fact, the age at which one can retire and receive full benefits is already scheduled to climb gradually, to 67 from 65, over 24 years that begin in 2003.
 
But the underlying supposition is that former Senator Bill Bradley, Mr. Gore's lone rival for the Democratic nomination, lacks the experience to manage the big issues facing the country and that he would do things detrimental to the national interest, or at least the Democratic interest, like raise the retirement age. Mr. Bradley has equivocated on raising the age, saying that all options should be on the table. But Mr. Gore has not said specifically how he would shore up Social Security either, saying only, "I'm not for raising the retirement age."
 
The reference to taking on "the big drug companies" is a further dig at Mr. Bradley who, as a senator from New Jersey, received significant financial contributions from those companies, many of which are based in New Jersey. Other New Jersey Democrats, including Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, who has endorsed Mr. Gore, are also mindful of the pharmaceutical industry's importance to their home state and have voted accordingly.
 
On school vouchers, Mr. Bradley has voted to allow experiments using them while Mr. Gore opposed doing so. Mr. Gore is also reminding viewers that Mr. Bradley has proposed eliminating Medicaid, although he would replace it with other health insurance.
 
SCORECARD -- Like previous Gore advertisements, this one inches closer and closer to a direct attack on Mr. Bradley's proposals, though it does not name the former senator. Mr. Gore is trying to reach the core Democratic constituency groups -- the elderly, teachers, blue-collar workers -- and hoping to spur them to the polls to save these fundamental Democratic programs by voting for him.
 
Mr. Gore has only recently begun to emphasize his experience as a qualification for the job of president. In this commercial, he suggests he has the experience to maintain the status quo, that is, the booming economy, without tinkering with core Democratic programs.
 
This spot will probably be followed by more that spell out in even tougher language the threat that Mr. Gore believes a Bradley presidency would pose. KATHARINE Q. SEELYE
 
Four advertisements for Mr. Gore are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES AGING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (76%); MEDICAID (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (73%); MEDICARE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (92%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



618 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming of a White Christmas? Just Buy It

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: DARIEN, Conn., Dec. 24

 BODY:
The meteorologists may say that there hasn't been any snow this winter in this quaint, affluent town. But don't tell that to Henry and Doris Herbert's 11 grandchildren.
Come Christmas morning, they will discover up to six feet of snow blanketing much of their grandparents' two-acre property here, giving them the perfect place to test out the sleds and toboggans they will receive as presents on Saturday. What's more, the six boys and five girls will discover that they will be the only ones in the neighborhood with a patch of winter in a landscape of green and brown -- offering irrevocable proof, no doubt, that this year, Santa decided that no one was more special. 
 In addition to expressing gratitude to Santa, they might want to give thanks to Snowman Services of Darien for the reminder that in the go-go 90's, you don't have to dream about a white Christmas, you can just order a man-made, made-to-order version if you're looking for the ultimate Christmas-morning indulgence.
For a minimum of $750, Snowman Services can manufacture snow to be dumped in backyards, front yards, parking lots or country estates, using a quieter version of the snow-making equipment used by ski resorts. And in a booming economy, the prospect of summoning winter with a simple phone call, take-out style, has been quite the fashionable gift or gesture this season.
"Some people have got into a bidding war," said Jonathan Sweeney, Snowman's owner, who controlled the Herbert family snowstorm this afternoon.
"One guy from Scarsdale said, 'I'll pay you $5,000 if you do us and blow the other people off tonight.' " (Mr. Sweeney declined the offer, saying that his policy was "first come first served.")
Creating snow, or faux snow, is not new, of course. Ski resorts do it, on a huge scale. Movie studios in California do it, for special effects. Even malls in Florida occasionally do it, for promotional purposes, by chopping up ice to get -- voila! -- something that feels like snow.
But the idea of creating snow for purely personal reasons -- so that one family can have it, while everyone else does not -- has caught on in only the last year or so. Mr. Sweeney, for one, takes orders for snow-filled birthday parties, corporate events and Christmas surprises throughout Fairfield County.
In Manchester, N.H., Kendall and Colette Veilleux began a snow-making business this year, after stumbling upon Mr. Sweeney's Web site.
And in Midland, Mich., SMI Snowmakers, one of the country's leading manufacturers of snow-making equipment for ski resorts, occasionally accepts orders for private parties, sometimes from the famous (an example: Celine Dion), at a cost of $3,000 to $10,000, said Joe VanderKelen, the company's president.
Making snow can be a finicky business. The temperature, for one thing, cannot exceed 30 degrees Fahrenheit. The process requires a lot of water, too, about 20,000 to 100,000 gallons per night. And the customer is usually expected to supply the water.
So to get, say, an acre of man-made snow, one-foot deep, requires about 27,000 gallons of water, or a little less than a swimming pool, which can be accomplished in six to eight hours, Mr. Sweeney said.
To do it right, Mr. Sweeney said, you also need to spend about $75,000 in start-up capital to procure a snow-making machine, which resembles a wayward jet engine; a generator; a trailer; cables; hoses; and a pressure booster.
And for the prospective client, of course, there is the cost, which is just a euphemism for sticker shock: $750 per night, per machine, in Mr. Sweeney's case. But here in Fairfield County, one of the wealthiest places in the country, cost is usually an afterthought.
Mr. Sweeney first got the idea in 1995, when one of the clients (a well-known Wall Street financier) of his full-time landscaping business, Darien Tree and Lawn Care, asked if man-made snow would be possible for a holiday party.
Though that project never came about, Mr. Sweeney eventually bought some equipment and tested it at his own house, overcoming problems like excessive noise. Then, in 1997, he tackled his first job: a children's party for a prominent doctor in Westport.
"It looked like a huge sperm whale that landed in their driveway," said Mr. Sweeney about that project, which was 8 feet tall, 25 feet wide and 100 feet long.
Soon, people started noticing Mr. Sweeney's creations popping up all over Fairfield County. And this year, Mr. Sweeney, 36, began advertising on WKHL, an oldies station in Norwalk, and at sites on the Internet -- www.snowmanusa.com and www.darien-lawn-tree.com.
It has grown so frenzied, he said, that he has hired extra workers and has turned down numerous requests because of scheduling conflicts.
Nicholas H. Fingelly Real Estate was one of the groups that made the cut. On Thursday afternoon, the company celebrated a very good year with a blanket of man-made snow surrounding its new office in Westport, topped by Christmas caroling and the occasional snowball.
"Some people dream of a white Christmas," said an ebullient Victoria Fingelly, a co-owner who was bedecked in a mink coat dotted with fake snow. "We make it happen."
Not everyone has had the same reaction, naturally, to the sight of uneven snowfall. A few bah-humbugs say that the practice could engender neighborhood envy; others say that it's just another convenience for the well-to-do.
But here, in Darien, Henry and Doris Herbert's five children decided that they could think of no better gift -- or surprise -- for the 11 grandchildren, whose ages range from 2 months to 16 years, than to pull a fast one on Mother Nature.
After all, it has been a few years since there was any snow on Christmas Day, said Lauren Banerjee, one of the Herberts' four daughters. And by splitting the $750 cost, the gift would actually be cheaper than a trip to, say, Radio City -- plus, the snow will last for perhaps a month.
But the surprise was momentarily in doubt today. When Mrs. Banerjee's 4-year-old nephew, Jack Fisher, talked about the weather, he calmly told his mom, Bebe Fisher, "There will be snow tomorrow."
Nervous, Mrs. Fisher asked Jack how he knew. Had someone slipped?
But the boy, who has never experienced a white Christmas, simply smiled and said, "Because it's Christmas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A white Christmas, unlike the ones they used to know, being machine-made for the Herberts of Darien, Conn. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1); For a Christmas party at a real estate office in Westport, Conn., the snowy backdrop was made to order. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SNOWMAN SERVICES

ORGANIZATION: SNOWMAN SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: DARIEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; WEATHER CHRISTMAS (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WEATHER (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); SKIING (89%); RESORTS (88%); SKIING FACILITIES (87%); METEOROLOGY (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W JONATHAN SWEENEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



619 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Effects of Economic 'Sunspots'

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Dec. 24

 BODY:
What do sunspots and economic forecasts have in common? Both affect the economy only if the public believes they do, according to a commentary by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.
Economists have shown that public economic expectations can result in self-fulfilling prophesies, or behavior that causes the belief to come true. The Fed's use of forecasts to establish monetary policy can thus set the tone for public behavior. 
 But economic crystal balls are about as accurate as "soothsayers and weather forecasts," or watching sunspots to predict the economy, the commentary said.
For example, if the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's rate-setting panel, raises interest rates to pre-empt future inflation, the public and financial markets begin to act as if inflation is a reality which can cause inflation.
"Monetary policy decisions depend on what the public is expected to do, and the public bases its behavior on current monetary policy actions," said Charles Carlstrom, a Cleveland Fed economist, and bank consultant Timothy Fuerst, the commentary's authors.
The result is a hard-to-control cycle based only on mutual expectations. "Using forecasts to determine monetary policy actions introduces the possibility that inflation will increase just because the public expects it," they wrote.
For economists, the term sunspots symbolizes an event that affects some economic variable only because the public believes it does. It was coined after an 1884 theory that sunspots affect the earth's climate and thus agricultural productivity.
"A sunspot is therefore purely extraneous information that leads to a circle of self-fulfilling expectations," the commentary said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (71%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EARTH (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); WEATHER (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); WRITERS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



620 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
INTERNATIONAL A2-16
 
Jet Hijacked Over India; At Least One Person Killed
Five Sikh men said to be armed with grenades and rifles hijacked an Indian Airlines jet and killed at least 1 of the 189 people aboard on a forced odyssey across India, Pakistan, Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf before landing in Kandahar, Afghanistan, shortly after 10 o'clock Eastern time last night. Some two hours earlier, the aircraft had taken off from a military air base in the United Arab Emirates. A1
 
Pope Ushers in Holy Year
John Paul II opened wide the Holy Door to Saint Peter's Basilica, ushering in a Holy Year that is supposed to set the tone for the third millennium. Marking the 2,000th anniversary of the birth of Jesus, 8,200 people were squeezed inside St. Peter's, which usually holds 7,000. A1 

Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, accompanied by assorted leftist leaders of the world, celebrated Christmas Eve in the newly refurbished Bethlehem at a midnight Mass capped off with fireworks and a Middle Eastern banquet. A12
 
Israel-Lebanon Cease-Fire
Israeli troops and Lebanese guerrillas fighting in southern Lebanon observed a rare and unannounced three-day cease-fire that ended yesterday, allowing the recovery of the bodies of five guerrillas killed in the area in recent months. The cease-fire was described by spokesmen for United Nations forces as the quietest period in southern Lebanon in more than two decades. A9
 
Leader Toppled in Ivory Coast
A retired general announced that troops had overthrown the government of President Henri Konan Bedie of the Ivory Coast, left. He imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in Abidjan after ordering mutineers to stop terrorizing residents with indiscriminate gunfire. But troops and hooligans continued to pillage the city. A8
 
Too Late to Leave Grozny
Russian officials said residents of Grozny had missed their chance to leave and should hide in their shelters until Russian forces have secured the Chechen capital. The warning was a fresh indication that the climactic battle for the city is finally at hand. A9
 
Indonesian Denies War Crimes
Indonesia's former military chief, determined to clear his name as allegations of war crimes swirl around him, denied that army commanders had instigated the destruction of East Timor after it voted for independence. The officer, Gen. Wiranto, testified before a government-appointed panel investigating rights abuses in East Timor. A9
 
China Action on Sect Members
China plans to put four leading members of the banned Falun Gong spiritual movement on trial on Sunday. The move is the most significant prosecution since the government outlawed the group five months ago, a rights group in Hong Kong said. A9
 
World Briefing A12
 
NATIONAL A17-25, 28
 
Drug Companies Warned On Risk of Price Controls
White House officials, brandishing new data showing that the drug industry earns higher profits and pays lower taxes than most other industries, say drug companies may bring price controls on themselves if they continue to resist President Clinton's plan to have Medicare provide pharmaceutical benefits. A1
 
Pressing Gay Rights in Military
Gay rights advocates and their supporters in Congress are pressing the Clinton administration to combat harassment against homosexuals in the armed forces while laying the groundwork to overturn the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy, now enshrined in law. A20
 
Associate Sought in Bomb Case
Canadian authorities said they had issued an arrest warrant for Abdelmajed Dahoumane, left, a man believed to be an associate of Ahmed Ressam, the man who was arrested at a border station in Washington State and indicted on charges of illegally possessing explosive materials. A21
 
Reconsidering Bail for Scientist
A federal judge will reconsider a ruling that a former nuclear weapons scientist, Wen Ho Lee, be held without bail until his trial, which is not likely to start for more than a year. A federal magistrate judge had ruled on Dec. 13 that releasing Mr. Lee on bail would pose a "clear and present danger to the national security of the United States." A21
 
Juvenile Official Resigns
The director of California's troubled juvenile corrections service, Gregorio S. Zermeno, has resigned amid demands by state officials for a stronger response to brutality in the system. He was forced to resign after only 10 months on the job. A17
 
Dry Spell in California
California has received 75 percent of the normal precipitation in the Northern Sierra and less than 25 percent of normal in the Southern Sierra, after five years of abundant precipitation, the state's chief climatologist said this week. A24
 
Beliefs B5
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Wrapping Up Hubble Mission
Two astronauts from the space shuttle Discovery ventured out on a spacewalk to finish repairing the Hubble Space Telescope by installing a new radio transmitter and a digital recorder. The $3 billion telescope is to be cut loose from the shuttle today and resume its survey of the heavens two weeks later. A21
 
Concerns of Front-Line Doctors
Changes in the nation's health care system have left 1 in 4 front-line doctors worrying that they are treating complicated conditions better left to specialists, according to a survey of 12,107 doctors that was published this week in the New England Journal of Medicine. A25
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Health Plan for Uninsured Excludes New Immigrants
The landmark agreement reached by Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature to provide medical coverage for the poor by raising the state's cigarette tax contains a little-noticed provision denying those benefits to thousands of legal immigrants during their first five years in the country. B1
 
Tied to Strike, Inmates Moved
Forty inmates were transferred out of a maximum-security prison in upstate New York because correction officials discovered that they were planning a strike, officials said. The discovery added to widespread worries among prison officials that inmates statewide were planning a work stoppage or protest that could begin on New Year's Day. B1
 
EDUCATION
 
Planning Chancellor Search
Officials at City Hall said Mayor Giuliani would urge the Board of Education to conduct the search for a successor to Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew, above, on its own, as it did in 1995 in selecting Dr. Crew, rather than by appointing an outside committee or using a headhunting agency. A1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Shadow Over Australian Race
The Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race begins on Sunday, a year after the 54th running, in which 6 of 1,135 sailors were killed. D1
 
OBITUARIES B6
 
Joao Baptista de Figueiredo
The Brazilian general was 81. He restored democratic government in the face of economic turmoil and sabotage attempts by hard-line officers and political right-wingers. B6
 
Maurice Couve de Murville
France's longest-serving foreign minister and the cool embodiment of Gaullist detachment toward the United States and the Atlantic alliance, he was 92. B6
 
BUSINESS DAY B7-12
 
Gains in Retail Sales
Retail analysts are saying the nation's largest stores are on track to see a year-over-year rise in purchasing well in excess of 6 percent, making this the strongest Christmas since 1994. Retailers will not officially report their December sales until early January, and many of the biggest shopping days are still to come with post-Christmas sales. B7
 
Treasurer Opposing Tobacco
The state treasurer of California said he would press the state's two big public employees pension funds to sell off their large holdings of tobacco company stocks. B8
 
Beanie Babies Put to Vote
Ty Inc., which four months ago announced that it would kill off its popular Beanie Babies line on Dec. 31, said it would reconsider. The company now plans to let the public vote on whether it should keep producing Beanie Babies in the new year. B11
 
Business Digest B7
 
ARTS & IDEAS C1-32
 
New Faiths as Growth Industry
A growing number of scholars have begun work in an unconventional academic specialty that they call new religious movements. This emerging field has attracted not only traditional religion experts but also psychologists, anthropologists and literary critics. C1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: This millennial Christmas; soft money's staying power; the next steps on Iraq.
 
Bridge C28
 
TV Listings C31
 
Crossword C28
 
Weather B11
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); LEBANON (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HOLY SEE (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED ARAB STEVEDORING (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); LEBANON (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); HOLY SEE (57%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HIJACKING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ARMIES (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); CURFEW (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CHRISTMAS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



621 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: FIGURE SKATING;
Russia, a Power on Ice, Frets About the Future

BYLINE: By SAL A. ZANCA 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 24

 BODY:
The Soviet system is gone but not forgotten. It formed the basis for Russia becoming the most powerful nation in the history of figure skating.
Last March Russia became the first country to take all four titles at the world championships after winning all four at the European meet for the third year in a row. 
 So at the Russian national championships, which began Thursday, the spots for the world team are precious. A singles spot on the team virtually guarantees an international medal and prize money now allowed by the International Skating Union.
"The overall level here will be much higher than at the world championship," said Valentin Piseyev, president of the Russian Skating Federation.
In this week's Russian women's singles competition, for example, there are a half-dozen skaters with international medals, yet only three can make the national team.
Russian skaters are succeeding in spite of dwindling resources at home, where rinks are being shut down to devote the space to more lucrative schemes, coaches are leaving for higher-paying jobs in other countries and the Russian federation is struggling for money to support younger talent.
"The system is still the same," Piseyev said. "You may call it Soviet. You may call it Russian. What was invented in the Soviet system remains here, in Ukraine, in Uzbekistan and all the republics. What is now was done in the Soviet times."
Viktor Kudriavtsev, a coach of more than 40 years in the former Soviet Union and in Russia, agreed.
"The athletes you see now started in the Soviet times and the basis was in the Soviet times," he said. "The athletes now are on the ice now from 8 to 10 years."
Piseyev said: "Our success was based on preserving the preparation of the athletes from the very young to the highest level. All this is because of the high quality of the coaches."
But despite the current excellence of Russian skaters, there are some dark clouds ahead.
"All the negative tendencies in Russian sports now have also affected figure skating," Piseyev said. "This problem will affect the Russian figure skating in a few years."
Piseyev and Kudriavtsev detailed the problems. "More than 150 top figure-skating specialist coaches are working not in Russia but the United States," Piseyev said. "A month salary in Russia is equal to a one-day salary in the United States."
Kudriavtsev, who coached the 1998 Olympic champion Ilya Kulik before Kulik moved to the United States to work with another former Soviet coach, Tatyana Tarasova, added, "It is more difficult to find young talent now."
"The big work of the development of the figure skating was greatly reduced," Kudriavtsev said. "The family's economic situation here is low. And that is why many kids do not have opportunities to go into figure skating now."
In international competition, however, at least for now, the Russians keep winning. The incentive is pride, fueled by money.
"For the Russian athletes, in the old times the state will take back the money," Piseyev said. "Now they take it for themselves."
Yelena Sokolova knows. In 1998 she placed seventh at the Olympics and won two Grand Prix meets worth $30,000 each. Not bad for a 17-year-old in a country where the average annual salary is less than 15,000 rubles (about $533), according to Russian economic figures.
But last year Sokolova was only fifth at the nationals and then watched her teammates go one-two-three at the European championships and one-three at the worlds.
"It is more difficult for a Russian woman here than in European or worlds because anyone who skates here can win," she said. "Anyone."
Mariya Butyrskaya, who beat Michelle Kwan in March for the world title, faces the pressure not only of defending her title but also of just making the Russian team.
On Thursday night, minutes before she planned to drive to the rink for the championships, a car belonging to Butyrskaya blew up on a Moscow street. The newspaper Sport Ekspress said witnesses saw two young people running from the car shortly before it exploded. There were no reports of injuries or details of a police investigation. Butyrskaya declined to comment when asked about the report.
It's not as if making the world team and reaping the rewards means living happily ever after.
Although Aleksei Yagudin, a two-time world and European men's champion, has earned about a half-million dollars in prize money over the past two years, he was kicked off the exhibition tour for inappropriate behavior related to drinking. Yagudin was suspended by the Russian federation in May and went under a doctor's care.
"I hope his problems are behind him," Piseyev said. Yagudin is reluctant to talk about his problems.
Despite his credentials, he has never won a national title. In today's free skating here, Yevgeny Plushchenko, 17, landed a quadruple and seven triples to defeat Yagudin.
Other elite Russian skaters have had their troubles as well. Yelena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze, the world champions in pairs, have stumbled this season. Since a recent move to New Jersey with their coach, Tamara Moskvina, Berezhnaya has been homesick and Sikharulidze had an automobile accident and lost a lot of time from training. Despite their struggles this season, today they took advantage of opponents' mistakes to capture their second consecutive national title.
And the world ice dance champions, Angelika Krylova and Oleg Ovsiannikov, could not compete at the nationals and were uncertain of their ability to compete at all this season after she went to a hospital Wednesday to treat an old back injury.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yevgeny Plushchenko skated to the Russian championship yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SKATING UNION

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL SKATING UNION

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; FIGURE SKATING ICE SKATING (95%); WINTER SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); 

PERSON: ZANCA, SAL A VALENTIN PISEYEV (93%); VIKTOR KUDRIAVTSEV (67%); ALEKSEI YAGUDIN (59%); MARIYA BUTYRSKAYA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1999



622 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Feted Abroad, and No Longer Banned in Beijing

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
THESE are exhilarating, and perhaps a bit frightening, times for 36-year-old Zhang Yuan, who is increasingly described in international film circles as perhaps the most gifted and original filmmaker of his generation, even though his movies have not been widely seen at home or abroad.
His past films, including "Beijing Bastards" (1992) and "East Palace, West Palace" (1996), were banned in China because they dealt with hidden subjects like alienated youths and furtive homosexual encounters. That they were stylistically off-beat as well -- "Beijing Bastards" was a deliberately raw, improvised slice of life in the rock underground -- compounded his sins in the eyes of Communist censors. 
 The commercial market abroad for serious Chinese movies is quite limited. But Mr. Zhang's seven feature films, including fiction and documentaries, have become favorites on the international art-house and film-festival circuit. Known for years as an intriguing underground filmmaker, he is now swamped with invitations to appear at festivals and seminars.
Just in the last several weeks, Mr. Zhang -- a stocky man with a baby face, the eyes of Edward G. Robinson and an explosion of curly hair that could shame Gene Wilder -- attended a screening of his films at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, spoke at a three-day Zhang Yuan retrospective held by the Harvard Film Archive, discussed his films at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, traveled to London for a museum screening and then went on to Argentina, where he helped judge a film festival.
"We recognize in his work a mastery of the medium," said Bruce Jenkins, curator of the Harvard Film Archive, explaining why it sponsored such a big program for a young, still-evolving director. "You can already tell he'll have an impressive body of work, that he'll be as important to his generation of filmmakers as Chen Kaige and Zhang Yimou have been to theirs." Mr. Jenkins was referring to the "fifth generation" masters who are in their late 40's and came out of the Beijing Film Academy years before Zhang Yuan.
More compelling to Mr. Zhang than the global acclaim, but also potentially more perilous to his art, is the shaky bridge he is crossing at home. Only two years ago, angry Chinese authorities confiscated his passport when he tried to go to the Cannes International Film Festival, where "East Palace, West Palace" had been entered, and threatened him with prosecution if he tried to make another film on the sly.
Now, Mr. Zhang has just made two features in cooperation with the government's film bureau, one fictional and one a documentary.
"I've been making films for almost 10 years now and virtually nothing has been seen by Chinese audiences," Mr. Zhang said in a recent interview in Beijing, between trips to Boston and London. "That's something that has really frustrated and pained me."
SO to reach his home audience -- and avoid possible arrest -- he allowed the censors to review the scripts and edited versions of his new features. In the case of both the fictional feature, "Seventeen Years," and the full-length documentary, "Crazy English," some last-minute cuts were required, Mr. Zhang said. And now, "Seventeen Years" is scheduled to open commercially in Beijing next month and prospects are good for the documentary to be released here, too.
"All artists have to make choices, and these become limitations," Mr. Zhang said, obviously troubled by the subject and aware that some younger artists here are wondering whether he has lost his edge. "Limitations are not necessarily all bad," he continued, "but as an artist you still have to make sure that what you are doing remains real."
Whatever the background, Mr. Zhang is proud of his two new films and at this stage would welcome more commercial success. While "East Palace, West Palace" has played art houses in many countries and brought in some money, Mr. Zhang has had to spend a large share of his time over the last decade shooting commercials and rock videos for a living, and trawling Europe and Asia for financial backers. He and his wife, Ning Dai, a screenwriter, live well by Beijing standards, but he still answers his own phone and makes all his own arrangements.
In September, "Seventeen Years" won him the best-director award at the Venice Film Festival. It does not yet have an American distributor, but deals have been signed in Italy, Japan, Brazil and several other countries.
The film tells the story of a girl who murders her taunting sister, then after 17 years in prison gets a leave to visit home to see her aged, bitter parents. It will not be mistaken for a Hollywood thriller: it proceeds quietly, the drama propelled by silences and glances as much as by dialogue.
But with its clean direction, Vermeeresque lighting and memorable characters, and a simple, wrenching story with a happy ending, the film may appeal to a broader audience here than Mr. Zhang's more ponderous early films would have.
The new documentary, "Crazy English," is about Li Yang, a wildly successful promoter who leads auditoriums full of Chinese in shouting out English phrases -- the path, he says, to overcoming inhibitions, learning English and making China strong. The feature has no narration; rather, it just lets Li keep talking, and he is so nimble and funny that the technique works.
Some Western critics have suggested that the film is a subtle expose of mob psychology, with allusions to Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution. Hearing that, Mr. Zhang laughs and says, "That's going too far."
"Even if Li Yang does have that tendency, it's a funny and cool one," he says. He hopes for a public television showing in the United States.
It's remarkable that Mr. Zhang ever got to make films at all, let alone develop an original sensibility. He was born in 1963 in the southern city of Nanjing. He had poor health, he says, and cultivated a love of painting. Only at about age 20 did he become interested in writing and film and learn that the Beijing Film Academy, China's elite training ground, had reopened in 1978, after the end of the Cultural Revolution.
In 1985, the academy advertised for a new batch of students. Tens of thousands applied, including Mr. Zhang, who had little knowledge of film but apparently did so spectacularly well in essays and interviews that he was one of 16 students accepted.
UP to that point the only foreign films that Mr. Zhang, like most Chinese, had seen were from the Soviet Union, North Korea and Yugoslavia. But the academy had copies of the best movies appearing in the United States and Europe.
"I was like someone who'd been starved for a long time," he recalled. While specializing in cinematography, he devoured the films of Martin Scorsese, watching "Taxi Driver," "Mean Streets" and others dozens of times. He also studied the work of Italian directors like Antonioni and Fellini.
But his biggest revelation, Mr. Zhang said, was seeing Chinese films of the 1930's. "That was a time when Chinese arts were at their liveliest," he said.
From the opening scene of his first film, "Mama," about a mother and her retarded child, which was completed in 1990, Mr. Zhang established himself as a fresh cinematic voice.
"Nearly every one of Zhang Yuan's films has broken thematic and stylistic ground," said Yaohua Shi, an expert on Chinese film at the University of Massachusetts who served as host for Mr. Zhang and his works recently. "He has opted for a gritty, deliberately unglamorous cinematic technique or the documentary style, often avoiding visual pyrotechnics."
Although Mr. Zhang had made "Mama" through official channels, it was not viewed favorably by officials and received almost no distribution, he said.
"At that point I realized that if I really wanted to express my own views about society, then I needed total independence," Mr. Zhang said.
The film he wanted to make next, "Beijing Bastards," which portrayed the amoral, apolitical lives of an underground youth culture, could not remotely have passed official muster. "They couldn't have reviewed a script because we didn't have one!" he said of the 1992 film, which featured the alienated rock songs of Cui Jian.
Sometimes called China's first independent feature, "Beijing Bastards" was filmed with an intentionally rough quality reminiscent of Andy Warhol, and it captured the attention of cognoscenti.
After a documentary about Tiananmen Square, Mr. Zhang made "Sons," a realistic fiction about a father's alcoholism and insanity.
"East Palace, West Palace," in 1996, showed a new sophistication and secured Mr. Zhang's reputation abroad. Showing the gay underworld of city parks and a police officer's homoerotic pull toward a masochistic cruiser, it examined themes that are simply not discussed in public here.
It may be no coincidence that in May 1996, China's cabinet passed new "Rules for Administration of Films" that, among other vague provisions, proscribed the making of movies that "threaten the security, reputation and interests of the state."
"There's no question that the new film law specifically banned independent filmmaking, outside the official studio system," said Chris Berry, an expert on the Asian cinema at La Trobe University in Melbourne, Australia. "Before that it was a gray area."
MR. ZHANG says that after the 1997 clash over the showing of "East Palace, West Palace" at Cannes, and the loss of his passport, he knew he was at an impasse. "If I had continued to work the same way, I'd probably have lost my freedom," he said.
After eight months of limbo, Mr. Zhang was given his passport back, and he began intensive discussions with the film authorities, leading to agreement in 1998 that he could resume making movies.
Now, even as he eagerly anticipates his first Chinese commercial release, he can't stop thinking about the strictures. "An artist has to express his point of view fully and without any constraint," he said. "If an artist can't do that, then there's no hope."
Will he always be able to find topics that excite him and are acceptable to the censors? "I have no idea," he replied.
"Deng Xiaoping used a parable to describe how we should run our economy," Mr. Zhang said, " 'Crossing the river by feeling the stones, one at a time.' "
He added, "I think China's artists also have to think this way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Li Yeping, left, Liu Lin and Li Bingbing in "Seventeen Years," a fictional film about a girl who murders her sister. It won the best-director award at this year's Venice Film Festival for Zhang Yuan, right. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SEVENTEEN YEARS (MOVIE)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (54%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (54%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CENSORSHIP CENSORSHIP (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); PAINTING (73%); 

PERSON: ZHANG YUAN; ECKHOLM, ERIK GENE WILDER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



623 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 42; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
A 'Pianist'? Less, Perhaps, and More

BYLINE: By JOSEPH HOROWITZ; Joseph Horowitz's book about the pianist Claudio Arrau has recently been reissued as a Dover paperback.

 BODY:
IN his 1869 pamphlet "On Conducting," a classic text on the art of musical interpretation, Richard Wagner complained that performances of the keyboard works of Bach were diluted by a misguided "smoothness" and "mildness," that "there was no trace of somber German Gothicism." In frustration, Wagner reports, he begged his friend Liszt "to cleanse my musical soul of these painful impressions." Liszt complied by playing the Prelude and Fugue in C sharp minor from the first book of "The Well-Tempered Clavier." With this single performance, Wagner concludes, "Liszt revealed Bach to me."
How did Liszt play the C sharp minor Prelude and Fugue? Very likely the way Edwin Fischer plays it in a recording reissued in Philips's series Great Pianists of the 20th Century. 
 The special grandeur of this reading is partly an act of "orchestration": the different fugal voices are differently colored. In contrast to the muted strings and winds with which he begins, Fischer trumpets the striding third subject. His applications of pedal evoke a vast and resonant cathedral space. He shapes the fugue's gathering mass with tidal swells and recessions. Attaining the climax, he attends less to Baroque polyphony than to Romantic harmony: the final move to the tonic key, prepared by a long dominant pedal, is of Brucknerian amplitude and weight.
The all-Bach Fischer reissue (Philips 456 766-2; two CD's) includes more than a dozen preludes and fugues, three concertos and the best-known and most haunting of all of Fischer's Bach recordings: the Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue. Here he shapes the arpeggios to suggest light refracted through stained glass. Adding octaves, pedaling through bar lines, he captures the Gothic thunder of a mighty organ. The entire work, imbued by Bach with the spirit of improvisation, actually sounds composed on the spot in a Faustian creative fever.
When these recordings were made, in the early 1930's, Fischer was among the most celebrated pianists in Europe, and his Bach was famous. But, for reasons both political and aesthetic, he was never well known in the United States.
Born in Switzerland in 1886, he settled in Germany, then -- pressed to adopt German citizenship -- returned to Switzerland midway through World War II. He died in Zurich in 1960. Fischer's wartime residence in Berlin and close association with the conductor Wilhelm Furtwangler tainted his reputation abroad. But, like Furtwangler, he was no Nazi. (He sheltered his Jewish pupil and future assistant, Katja Andy, one of several young Jewish musicians he helped to escape.)
Fischer feared flying and never visited North America. Even if he had, it would not have made much difference. Such American musical icons as Toscanini and Heifetz were everything Fischer was not: brilliant, precise, virtuosic. Fischer was nervous and erratic. Even compared with such New World arbiters of Germanic taste as Artur Schnabel and Rudolf Serkin (who intensely disliked him), he stood apart as a cloudy and beclouded artistic personality, old-fashioned and obscure.
His recordings, too, are singularly inconsistent. A second Fischer release in the Great Pianists series, with music by Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert (456 769-2; two CD's), is disappointingly earthbound, as if the compilers of this admirable series were restricting their Fischer selections to recordings with the fewest wrong notes.
For Fischer's Mozart, the CD to buy documents a 1954 Turin concert with Fischer playing and conducting the Concertos in E flat (K. 482) and C minor (K. 491) with the Royal Danish Orchestra (on Music and Arts). The movement to listen to is the Andante of the E flat Concerto, which Fischer performs as an Adagio. Singing the long melodies, with their chromatic decorations, he explores realms of exquisite pain unvisited by Mozart sopranos. In the healing finale of the same work, he improvises left-hand countermelodies, fashioning a cumulative density of ornamentation that proves magically cathartic. These performances are not about Mozart's perfection. Rather, they fearlessly explore a wondrous wealth and variety of expression.
Fischer's great concerto recording is of the Brahms B flat, a 1942 collaboration with Furtwangler and the Berlin Philharmonic (also on Music and Arts). This live performance is at the same time regal and ruthlessly spontaneous. The heights and depths of the piece, its fire and ruminative serenity, are completely served. Pianist and conductor challenge and rechallenge each other toward maximum expenditure.
Claudio Arrau, whose Berlin teacher Martin Krause also taught Fischer, once recalled: "Fischer didn't have very much technique, you know. But you didn't care. I remember there was always this argument between Krause and Fischer. Krause said: 'Why don't you practice? Do some exercises.' But he wanted to make music."
Arrau also said of Fischer: "One never had the feeling in performance of hearing a pianist." This statement, almost innocuous in its simplicity, says it all. Fischer's art was not about the act of performance. He was the antithesis of Vladimir Horowitz, for whom playing the piano was about playing the piano.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edwin Fischer "composes" on the spot in a Faustian creative fever. (A. Rohwer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NORTH AMERICA (67%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (52%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ZURICH (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NORTH AMERICA (67%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (52%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ZURICH (52%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); WORLD WAR II (64%); 

PERSON: HOROWITZ, JOSEPH; FISCHER, EDWIN (1886-1960) EDWIN FISCHER (96%); BACH FISCHER (83%); WILHELM FURTWANGLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



624 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 4; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina Confronts Urban Sprawl

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE 

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, S.C.

 BODY:
Just outside this city of 60,000 lie huge stretches of subdivisions where a few years ago cattle grazed or loblolly pines grew wild, reflecting a pattern of sprawl around mid-sized cities that has led state leaders to call for more control on development and greater attempts to preserve open space.
Jim Hodges, the Governor of South Carolina, has agreed to take part in a conference here schduled for March 26 to 28 for talks on how sprawl affects the state. The organizers hope to bring together a disparate group, some of whom usually find themselves on opposing sides -- such as homebuilders and environmentalists. 
 It is a discussion that many call long overdue, but one that is touchy in a state that has swept forcefully out of economic doldrums with some $28 billion in industrial construction since 1995.
"The first thing we have to do is identify sprawl as a problem," said Kit Smith, a Richland County Councilwoman who has pushed for land use planning in her county, which includes Columbia, the state capital. "There is such a dichotomy in this state of rural and growth areas."
The pressures of development versus preservation are being felt elsewhere in the country as well. A study released earlier this month by the federal Department of Agriculture showed that 16 million acres of the nation's farmland, forests and open space had been developed from 1992 to 1997. And six of the 10 states that gobbled up most of the open space were in the South.
South Carolina ranked ninth with 539,700 acres, more than double the annual conversion rate of the previous 10 years. Texas was No. 1; Pennsylvania, No. 2; Georgia, No. 3, Florida, No. 4, and California, No. 6.
"We are one of the most wasteful states in the nation in terms of land," said Dana Beach, director of the nonprofit South Carolina Coastal Conservation League, based in Charleston, which researches and promotes coastal preservation.
But, said John Cone, director of the Homebuilders Association of South Carolina, "the fact is we still have huge, huge, huge amounts of open space in the state." For example, he said, the Agriculture Department found that the amount of farmland had remained the same over the five-year period its report covered.
Nearly 13 percent of this state, generally considered to be a rural and agricultural, has been developed, the agriculture agency's study showed. But that pales in comparison to highly developed industrial states such as New Jersey, with 41 percent of the land mass developed, or Massachusetts, with 32 percent.
The state's primary growth areas surround its biggest cities -- Charleston near the coast, Columbia in the central section and Greenville in the northwest, near the Blue Ridge Mountains. Myrtle Beach, a vacation resort area along the state's northern Atlantic coast, has seen tremendous growth as well, primarily in hotels and second-home resorts.
Another prominent growth spot has been York County, just south of fast-growing Charlotte, N.C. But York County, planners say, has jumped ahead of other areas in recognizing they are losing their cultural heritage.
Its County Council created York County Forever, a commission designed to protect one acre of land for every acre developed. The goal is 10,000 acres in five years. The county set aside $357,000 for this year, the commission's first, to buy land and to pay for conservation easements in key areas -- riverfronts, farmland and open space.
Jeanne Ferguson, the chairman of the commission, said the group soon will have executed deals on 3,500 acres.
"It's important for our county to retain its character," Mrs. Ferguson said. "Southerners have a real affinity for the land."
Here in Greenville, 1,018 subdivisions with 28,543 homes have been approved for construction in the last nine years, according to the Greenville County Planning Commission. The growth pattern here mimics the pattern that changed the nation's urban centers decades earlier, with the first subdivisions ringing the central city and then, as the houses aged and more people moved in, developers moved farther out.
Nearly 60,000 people moved into this county in the last decade, pushing the population to about 380,000, while the population of the city of Greenville remained virtually the same, planning commission records show.
"Numberwise, we are the fastest growing county in South Carolina," said David Montgomery, the economic demographics planner for the planning commission.
F. James Forbes, director of the Greenville County Planning Commission, said the county was trying to steer developers toward urban centers, rather than outlying areas, without much success so far.
Homebuilders, especially national companies, have gravitated toward the southern part of the county, which has no zoning. The only approval needed there is by the planning commission, which must make sure the infrastructure can handle development.
Only about half of Greenville County is zoned, while some high-growth counties such as Cherokee, along Interstate 85, the busy link between Charlotte and Atlanta, have no zoning at all. But, said Mr. Cone of the homebuilders' group, as public officials develop regulations they must remember that the market is what drives the developers' business. "People have decided they want to have a little piece of land with grass and trees and a couple of cars," he said. "That's the way the South is."
Sprawl has brought South Carolina's governments big-city problems, Ms. Smith said, such as traffic, water pollution and budgets spread thin to provide police, school, sewer and water service to outlying areas.
"We raise taxes every year in Richland County," she said. "When you build way out, it's the most expensive place to deliver services. There is always a social cost, an environmental cost and a financial cost to development."
Her county has begun to require developers to consider not only what they are going to put on their own land, but how development relates to the community as a whole. Often, she said, subdivisions are built beside a newly built and academically successful school without direct and easy access to it.
She would like to see communities where residents can walk to school and stores, even to their work. In addition, she said, agencies must coordinate planning of land use, road building, school construction and sewer and water line extensions.
"There is still this myth that large lots protect the rural landscape," she said. "They don't. They churn it up."
Moreover, Ms. Smith said, small changes add up. Old-fashioned grid designs for roads, rather than the disconnected subdivision thoroughfares, she said, give drivers more choices and thus cut down traffic on individual roads.
She said that she had talked with Inez Tenenbaum, the state's Superintendent of Education, about rewriting regulations that now require 25 acres for each school and prohibit two-story buildings. Such regulations bar putting schools on a smaller piece of property when necessary, said Ms. Smith.
"More and more sprawl has taken place because there hasn't been redevelopment of urban areas," said Dan Glickman, the federal Secretary of Agriculture, shortly after his agency's study was issued. People are moving farther and farther out because they are looking for green spaces, he added.
"It's primarily a local and state issue," he said. But, he added, he wants to reorient the nation's farm policy away from a commodity-driven approach and toward conservation.
Saying he considered his agency's report a "wake-up call," he noted that 70 percent of the nation's land was in private hands. The value of open space and farmland, he added, is "not for some anachronistic purpose."
"This is about how you want to grow," said Ms. Smith. "What will attract industry is good neighborhoods and good quality of life. We still have a chance to do it right in South Carolina."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homes under construction in the Laurel Lake subdivision outside Greenville, S.C. (Photographs by Lyn Riddle for The New York Times); The Bastridge subdivision off Woodruff Road, another sign of Greenville's sprawl.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (91%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (50%); MYRTLE BEACH PELICANS (50%); GREENVILLE COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENVILLE COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; GREENVILLE (SC); UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (91%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); RANKINGS (87%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); RESORTS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN; HODGES, JIM (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



625 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: A Sharper Eye for the State's History

BYLINE: By ALBERTA EISEMAN 

 BODY:
THE road signs that guide visitors in the new permanent exhibition at the Connecticut Historical Society in Hartford -- called "Tours and Detours Through Early Connecticut -- symbolize one of the show's major goals: to make connections between past and present. Designed in the familiar style of current road signs, they carry images of long ago, such as a wigwam or a Colonial house, as well as logos that still apply today, like a boat launching or a deer-crossing symbol.
The multi-layered exhibition, which received financial support from the state's Department of Economic and Community Development and the Connecticut Humanities Council as well as corporate and private sources, is designed to appeal to families and school groups. It offers lively visual displays and hands-on activities like crafts and puzzles alongside treasures from the society's collection -- portraits, manuscripts, original documents and antique furniture that will engage the adults in the group. 
 "The word tours in the show's title refers to the actual road that is marked into the floor of the exhibition galleries, leading the visitor on a chronological journey that begins in the early 1600's and ends in the late 1700's," said Kate Steinway, the society's director of exhibitions. "Detours implies that history is not clear or linear, and we take detours down various paths to learn, for example, what home life was like in a Colonial household or what role slavery and indentured servitude played in early Connecticut."
At the start of the show, visitors can choose the path of American Indians, to discover how the earliest inhabitants lived and learn the origins of the names they gave places, or the path that explores what life was like for the newly arrived Europeans as they struggled to establish a foothold in what was for them a hostile and dangerous land.
The two paths came together shortly after the start of European settlement, as Colonists brought new materials, products and ideas that forever altered the native Americans' way of life.
A table-top puzzle map of Connecticut about 1640 enables visitors to understand how both ative people and new settlers adapted the land to suit their needs. By lifting up the puzzle pieces that show fruit trees planted by English colonists, for example, or the pieces that depict animals such as deer and beaver, visitors can learn more about which foods and materials were indigenous and which imported.
The exhibition explains the differences in value systems and how misunderstandings soon led to open conflict, with episodes of attacks, enslavement and captive taking, culminating in the Pequot War in 1637 and King Philip's War, in 1675 and 1676.
Among the period weapons on display is an English sword used in the Pequot War and a American Indian war club. And an engraving printed in London in 1638 depicts an Indian fort in New England under siege.
In a recording of contemporary people reading from primary sources, as well as in quotations from letters and books, settlers and natives talk about each other: "Please remember that all the words of the Natives were written down by the English and not by the Natives themselves," cautions the label, careful, as is all the exhibition's text, to avoid stereotypes.
The tour describes the unfolding of the state's early history as outposts gave way to small communities.
A mural showing a typical Connecticut landscape has been made into a large magnet board, and visitors are encouraged to select from a variety of magnetized emblems of structures -- houses, barns, churches, mills, stone walls and cemeteries -- to create a Connecticut community of the 1700's.
The home as residence, as place of work and as hospital is the focus of the section entitled Colonial Lives. The role of women in running the home and farm is emphasized as well as the presence of slaves.
Objects made in 18th-century Connecticut are on display: a high chest of drawers from Colchester, a spinning wheel, a cattle yoke, a candle stand crafted in Hartford and a child's potty chair made of red maple (the last item a favorite among younger viewers).
Visitors, surrounded by reproductions of samplers, are urged to try their hand at embroidery, using plastic colored thread on a white plastic grid, and also at making moccasins, a traditional Indian craft.
Perhaps the most popular exhibit is a replica of a Colonial farmhouse, where children can try on reproductions of period clothing -- petticoats, corsets and aprons as well as breeches and waistcoats -- and can pretend to cook and eat a Colonial-style dinner.
The section on the Revolutionary War highlights the conflict many Colonists felt in choosing sides. After pondering some of the issues that divided those remaining loyal to England ("Loyalists") and those in favor of self government ("Patriots"), visitors are asked to vote for or against English rule.
"Press a Button to Start the Revolution" reads a signpost. Well, not quite, but visitors can hear recorded voices reading first-person accounts of Revolutionary War experiences, including the tale of 22-year-old Deborah Champion of Colchester, who rode on horseback through enemy lines to Boston to take papers to Gen. George Washington and was praised by him for her courage.
A handsome red wool cloak said to have been worn by Champion on her historic mission is on display, along with other Revolutionary era objects such as a powder horn belonging to a soldier from Wethersfield, a dress sword owned by Gen. Israel Putnam of Pomfret and a small swivel cannon made at the Salisbury iron works about 1777.
The iron furnaces of northwestern Connecticut churned out cannons, cannonballs, bullets, bayonets and guns for the Continental army, while shipyards along the Connecticut River built and outfitted vessels that plundered British ships. Their output, combined with a large-scale home effort to produce food and clothing for the soldiers, made a vast contribution to the Revolutionary cause and earned Connecticut the designation of Provision State.
No exhibition devoted to Colonial Connecticut could ignore the topic of the Charter Oak -- the true story of the charter granted by England to the colony in 1662 and the myth that grew around its disappearance 25 years later, when a new king attempted to repeal it because it granted Connecticut an unusual measure of self-government.
Legend has it that an early Revolutionary War sympathizer hid the charter in the hollow of a large oak tree that stood in Hartford. For almost two centuries, the old tree was venerated as an icon, and when a storm felled it in 1856, its wood was made into innumerable souvenirs, large and small, some of which found their way into the collections of the historical society. On view are chess pieces, a pitcher, beads, a goblet, jewelry made by Tiffany and Company, as well as a tall clock made in Hartford in the 1870's.
A reproduction of the charter is on hand to recall this episode, and young visitors are urged to celebrate the independent spirit of Connecticut Olonists by hiding it in a hole of a make-believe tree.
The Connecticut Historical Society (1 Elizabeth Street, Hartford; 860-236-5621) is open Tuesday through Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Admission is $6, $3 for people 60 and over and students, free for children under 6.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Survival in a new land, and battles with its inhabitants, were among Colonial settlers' preoccupations.; Richard Jackson and his daughters Dayshima and Richelle of Bloomfield were among recent visitors at the exhibition; bottom, the girls try on clothing with help from Rebecca Furer of the Historical Society staff. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (92%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (92%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY HISTORY (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (76%); SLAVERY (76%); FAMILY (75%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (68%); 

PERSON: EISEMAN, ALBERTA

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



626 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
New Sports Promoter

 BODY:
County Executive Andrew J. Spano has appointed a Mount Kisco lawyer and sports agent, David J. Meiselman, as chairman of a commission for sports and entertainment.
In his new role, Mr. Meiselman will focus on promoting Westchester for sporting events and franchises. In addition to being a lawyer, Mr. Meiselman is chairman and chief executive officer of the Star Management Group, which represents professional athletes and entertainers in contract negotiations, endorsements and appearances, money management and charitable and foundation work. The National Football League Players Association has recognized Mr. Meiselman as a certified player representative. 
 Mr. Spano, who will not be paying Mr. Meiselman for his services, praised the commission "as an economic development idea" that could mean new income sources for the county.
Mr. Meiselman, a senior partner in the law firm of Meiselman, Farber, Packman & Eberz, said he would begin his duties by forming an advisory board of athletes and entertainers who live in Westchester.
In the last 25 years, his firm has represented clients like Mobil Oil, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, International Paper, the Hartford Insurance Company, Fisher-Price, Union Carbide and the New York State Medical Society. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); APPOINTMENTS (92%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (92%); SPORTS (92%); COUNTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); AIRLINES (65%); 

PERSON: SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC); MEISELMAN, DAVID J DAVID J MEISELMAN (95%); ANDREW J SPANO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



627 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 15; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Correcting the Record On Westchester History

 BODY:
Regarding the article "A Village Here, a Village There. But Why?" Special Issue: The Best of Westchester, Nov. 21 it would be nice to think that in today's quaint-looking villages, civic pride and the desire to stay out of New York City had inspired the formation of Westchester's many villages. But the historical record simply does not bear this out. In fact, Westchester lost the entire southern portion to New York City without protest. We ended up today with 17 towns, 22 villages, 6 cities, 90 hamlets, 59 fire districts, 40 school districts and a tangle of other districts for other reasons entirely.
After the Revolution, the Westchester countryside was wrecked. Main roads were largely impassable much of the year. The state carved the county into 21 towns (county government was weak) and gave them some powers, but not all. Then as now, towns cannot provide fire protection (only indirectly through fire districts). Poor police and fire protection and terrible roads were the primary reasons for the large number of incorporations for much of the 19th century. The first to incorporate (Ossining in 1813, Peekskill in 1816) were far from New York City. When the railroads brought people -- and more fires -- incorporations increased. When annexation was an issue it was local, not New York City (Tarrytown's incorporation swiped the most valuable land in Irvington). 
 Consider the difference between incorporation in the towns of Yonkers and Greenburgh. Part of the town of Yonkers became a village in 1855. By 1872, village services were so much better there that town residents voted to become a city. The town ceased to exist. In contrast, services were so poor throughout the town of Greenburgh that almost all the communities incorporated into separate villages. (The hamlet of Hartsdale was the exception.)
The writer of your article, Marilyn Wood Hill, attributes the spate of incorporations circa 1874 to a strong desire to avoid being annexed to New York City. This is simply not the case. In 1874, the whole of Westchester voted on a plan to annex what is now the northern half of the Bronx. Residents of the areas under consideration voted 4,230 for being annexed, 109 against. In the rest of Westchester, 9,023 voted for the plan and 2,643 against. By 1894 when an advisory vote was held for further annexation, word got out that the people annexed in 1874 were pleased with the city's far superior provision of services. This time, the vote in areas under consideration was split, with annexation having a slight edge in most places.
I found no evidence that villages incorporated in 1874 in order to prevent being annexed. In fact, they were finally able to incorporate because of a significant change in state law in 1874: people no longer had to petition the State Legislature for the right to incorporate. Instead, 300 citizens living within a certain number of square miles could petition and hold an election. And the state's Village Law empowered them to raise money to pay for services.
Walter Law, developer of Briarcliff Manor, enlarged his original plan in order to have the critical mass needed to become a village.
The article focused on Bronxville, which is surely the most singular exception in Westchester, being a village which successfully excluded people of certain economic and ethnic origins.
In the rest of the county, I believe that civic pride grew slowly and in the early days centered on the successful provision of services like free libraries, fire departments and schools. Indeed, much of the squabbling over boundaries in this century has been over who pays for what, and how well it is provided. Home rule is Westchester's most sacred cow and evidence of the expense to which citizens will go to have an identity that is distinct from one's neighbors.
Unfortunately, it has led to such massive lack of enforceable regional planning that our worst problems today are, once again, roads and schools.
 
KAROLYN WRIGHTSON
Hastings-on-Hudson
 
The writer is a former executive director of the Westchester County Historical Society and for seven years contributed a weekly column on local history to the Gannett Suburban Newspapers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT COUNTIES (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); PETITIONS (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



628 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 15; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Not Enough Substitutes? Productive Teachers Needed

 BODY:
I read with interest, but no surprise, the Nov. 28 article "Not Enough Substitute Teachers to Go Around," about the grave shortage of substitute teachers. It's no surprise. It has been that way for years.
One thing your article did not mention is the number of personal days off teachers are contractually entitled to in the districts. In the Katohah-Lewisboro district it has been 24 per year. This is in addition to leave for other reasons. It seems that teachers are absent more than people who work for private industry, where this level of absenteeism would never be tolerated. In fact, most Americans are now working longer hours and more days per year than their counterparts in any other industrialized country, a major contributing factor to American high productivity and booming economy. 
 With the focus on improving education, getting teachers to stay in the classroom might be a good place to start. Considering the various and many causes for disruption to educational time like staff development, which usually results in early dismissals, parent conferences (also early dismissal) and the excess of other noneducational activities that occupy schools, it is no surprise that we're faced with the disaster that is public education. To get our educational engines fired up, again, we might have to take a lesson from business and increase teacher productivity, to the benefit of students.
 
ROSE M. RAIMONDO
South Salem 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (75%); DISMISSALS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: ROSE M RAIMONDO SOUTH SALEM (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



629 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2558 words

HEADLINE: A Firm Foundation, Starting at the Roof

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
WHAT does a house of worship need every bit as much as pulpit and pews or altar and tabernacle, ark and bima, minaret and mihrab? What architectural element rivals such liturgical features in importance?
A roof in good repair. 
 Without a solid roof, bells are silenced, stained glass buckles, murals peel away and ornamental plaster domes collapse.
By the very nature of the structure -- an enormous volume spanned by a complex roof -- a religious sanctuary is terribly vulnerable to damage from above. The loss of its roof in a fire 16 months ago forced Central Synagogue in mid-Manhattan out of its landmark home until 2001. It has used the occasion to undertake a thorough $38 million renovation and restoration.
Its new roof is now in place. Henry Fernbach, who designed the synagogue in 1872, would feel right at home in the rafters because the structure is framed entirely in timber. The columns and beams of Douglas fir are massive, up to 20 feet long and 12 inches across.
Why build a roof of wood when the last one burned down? "It actually performs better than steel," said Jonathan Schloss of Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, architects of the renovation. Steel would have buckled under the heat, he said, but only one of the original timber roof trusses failed during the blaze.
Fire is one potent enemy. Water is the other.
The Brooklyn Tabernacle had to worry first about fixing the leaking roof of the former Loew's Metropolitan Theater downtown, which it plans to renovate as a 3,600-seat sanctuary and church complex. A 13-year project to restore the Eldridge Street Synagogue on the Lower East Side can only now begin in earnest, following the completion in May of a new roof and skylights.
"An incredible amount of what we pay for is water protection -- roofs, drain pipes, internal leaders," said Peg Breen, president of the private New York Landmarks Conservancy, which has made grants and loans of more than $4 million to religious properties through its Sacred Sites program.
Many houses of worship have recently undertaken or are planning roof projects, including the Church of the Virgin Mary, the Russian Orthodox Cathedral of the Transfiguration of Our Lord and St. John's Lutheran Church in Brooklyn; the Fordham University Chapel and Riverdale Presbyterian Church in the Bronx; Congregation Orach Chaim and the Little Church Around the Corner in Manhattan and the Woodrow United Methodist Church on Staten Island.
I T'S the toughest thing for a congregation to raise money for," Ms. Breen said. "A family might want its name on a stained-glass window. But no one wants their name on a drainpipe."
And because they are wary of financing sectarian missions or breaching the church-and-state wall, few government agencies or private philanthropies support the preservation of religious landmarks.
Ms. Breen said raising money for the sacred sites program "is the hardest sell we have, and the need increases every year."
So she welcomed as a "fabulous new vehicle" the $4 million preservation fund set up by the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation to make grants and loans for historic buildings in Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood. The conservancy administers the fund.
Earlier this month, contracts were signed for the first grants. St. Martin's Episcopal Church at Lenox Avenue and 122nd Street and the Ebenezer Gospel Tabernacle, Christian Mission, at Lenox Avenue and 121st Street are each to receive $100,000.
News of the grants was greeted warmly by Jennifer J. Raab, chairwoman of the city Landmarks Preservation Commission. "One of my biggest frustrations is that we're precluded, as a government agency, from offering financial support," she said. "It was a very big mission of mine to get money for Harlem churches."
St. Martin's has also applied for a grant from New York State, which makes money available for historic preservation projects from the Environmental Protection Fund and Clean Water-Clean Air Bond Act.
"I have a personal passion for the sacred sites issue," said Bernadette Castro, commissioner of the state Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. "I think they are very important -- if they qualify -- as significant pieces of architecture that in many cases are the focal point of a community, be it a Main Street or be it Manhattan."
Eligible properties are those listed on both the state and federal registers of historic places. They must be owned by nonprofit organizations -- an easy hurdle for most congregations to clear. The work that the state will fund is limited to exteriors.
For St. Martin's, the money could not come soon enough. It has already had to cover some of the copper sheathing on its magnificent bell tower with temporary plywood siding. In the voluminous sanctuary, ragged courses of spalling plaster and flaking paint testify to water damage.
"We've always operated on the principle of being a self-supporting church," said the Rev. David Johnson, the rector emeritus. "But the reality of expenses today -- it will probably cost $75,000 to $100,000 just for scaffolding." The first phase of repair and stabilization might reach $500,000; a daunting sum for a congregation that is still vital but smaller and grayer than it once was.
It may seem a stretch for the empowerment zone corporation to play angel, especially when its purpose is to spur business and create jobs, using $300 million in Federal, state and city money. But the agency sees historic buildings as catalysts in economic development, as they bring visitors -- and visitors' dollars -- uptown.
"Many, many people come up to visit, to hear gospel services and to enjoy the architecture of these splendid, unrivaled jewels," said Alex Saavedra, director of planning and historic preservation for the empowerment zone. "St. Martin's has one of only two carillons in New York City. That's something visitors would love to come see." (The other carillon is in Riverside Church.)
St. Martin's, originally known as Holy Trinity, was completed in 1888 to designs by William A. Potter. As an example of the robust Romanesque Revival style associated with Henry Hobson Richardson, it has few rivals, if any, in New York City.
In 1928, the Rev. John Howard Johnson founded the St. Martin's congregation, which eventually took over the Holy Trinity buildings and was made an independent parish. One of his sons, David, was the rector from 1961 until this year. Another, the Rev. Johan Johnson, is the current rector.
Although Father David Johnson is nominally retired, he can still climb nimbly up the open staircase to the tower and swing the bells, one of which weighs 3,100 pounds and is 53 inches across, sending the sound booming out across Harlem.
Cast by the Van Bergen foundry in the Netherlands, the carillon was dedicated exactly 50 years ago this month. And it will be rung at midnight on Friday to mark the millennium. The 42 bells are in good order, Father Johnson said, but the clavier -- a keyboard the size of an upright piano with five-inch wooden levers -- must be replaced. There is no point, however, in fixing the carillon until the tower structure and the roof overhead are secure.
Father Johnson refers to the carillon as the "poor people's bells," since its $45,000 cost (roughly $350,000 today) was met by the congregation. It is one of his tenets that "beauty should not be the exclusive preserve of the wealthy."
Roberta Brandes Gratz makes the same point as she sits in the women's gallery of the Eldridge Street Synagogue and conjures images of a congregation that lived in tenements and labored in sweatshops.
"There was no place in their lives that there was a real refuge until they came into this building," she said. "This is one place where you could feel valued."
Ms. Gratz is the founder of the nonprofit Eldridge Street Project, incorporated in 1986 to restore the synagogue used by Congregation Khal Adath Jeshurun with Anshe Lubtz, which had trouble for many years raising a minyan -- much less millions of dollars to rebuild its landmark home, between Canal and Division Streets.
Completed in 1887, the synagogue offered incomparable visual riches to worshippers: rose windows and horseshoe arches, cusps and finials, brass and walnut and stained glass, a velvet-lined ark with room for 24 Torah scrolls. But the main sanctuary exceeded the needs of the congregation long ago, and services are now held in a modest basement sanctuary.
One great challenge faced by the restoration architects, Beyer Blinder Belle, will be to avoid making the place look as good as new. "It's the current frontier of restoration artistry," Ms. Gratz said. "How do you restore without losing the patina of time?"
For now, there is patina to spare. The sanctuary appears at first glance to be more ragged today than when restoration began. "There was so much water penetration that it took a couple of years for all of the plaster to fall off," Ms. Gratz explained.
And ornaments like the grand chandelier have been removed. "I used to say it was held up by a string to God," Ms. Gratz said, since it was hard to see how else it was supported by the fragile structure.
Meanwhile, work that is largely invisible to an untrained eye has prepared the building for more aesthetic improvements.
MOST important was repointing the brick facade and installing a new slate roof, with skylights, this year. "They didn't tell me until after it was done that bricks were crumbling in their hands," Ms. Gratz said. "Even I didn't appreciate how tenuous this building was."
"Now with the roof and exterior walls, this building can stand another 100 years, even without a heating system," she said.
The project has raised and spent $3 million to date for restoration and stabilization work, and an almost equal amount for educational and cultural programs, said Amy E. Waterman, the executive director. It hopes to raise $8 million more, to complete the restoration and establish an endowment.
At Central Synagogue, paradoxically, it was an earlier renovation project that cost its roof. The fire was apparently started by a worker's blowtorch during the installation of an air-conditioning system in the rooftop.
For "about a minute" after the fire, there was thought of razing the gutted building at Lexington Avenue and 55th Street and starting anew, said the senior rabbi, Peter J. Rubinstein. That was quickly replaced by a resolve not just to rebuild but to alter the building to meet contemporary needs.
"We had already been wrestling with issues of space, sound, lighting and configuration," Rabbi Rubinstein said. "Although we would not have chosen the means by which this was done, there are very few times in American religious history that a congregation has the opportunity to retrofit a cathedral-type building. As awful as it was, the fire gave us this opportunity."
Central was completed in 1872 and is the oldest building in continuous use as a synagogue in New York. Its almost fragrantly complex blend of Moorish and Victorian styles went in and out of favor over the years, and was gradually toned down.
"It doesn't have its full panoply of powers," said Hugh Hardy, architect of the renovation. "We want to see that restored."
That means reviving the dazzling, lacy stencilwork, adding chandeliers in the cusps of the horseshoe arches along the balcony and sconces under the balcony. "When you have multiple sources of light, the whole place will shimmer," Mr. Hardy said.
In place of the metal sheets that covered the old roof, black and red slate will be laid in geometric patterns. Decorative cresting will be restored to the parapets and the copper globes atop the twin towers will be highlighted in gold leaf.
"Putting architectural accouterments back is putting people back in touch with their history," Rabbi Rubinstein said.
Some of the historic fabric will be changed, however. The existing front steps are each about two inches higher than would be customary today. That steep cascade spilling down to Lexington Avenue could be quite intimidating when a crush of people spilled from the sanctuary after services.
So shallower steps are to be installed. As a result, the entire front lobby will have to be lowered 13 1/2 inches and the doorways will have to be enlarged to meet the new staircase. Two steps will also be removed within the lobby. The distance will be made up with a new four-step rise within the sanctuary.
SOME preservationists worry that the renovation may be going too far. "Each alteration initiates a sequence of related changes that in total will seriously compromise the design of this 127-year-old landmark," said Joy Kestenbaum, an architectural historian who has studied the work of Mr. Fernbach.
But the landmarks commission approved the plans. "You could see it as a change that was necessary and appropriate to the architecture," Ms. Raab said, "coupled with incredible resources that are being poured into restoration."
Rabbi Rubinstein said the synagogue was more than halfway toward its fundraising goal. "I believe we're bringing back an architectural anchor," he said. "I believe it will be a light in what has become a cavernous enclosure. As people go to work, just a visual connection with this building will provide a spiritual balance in life."
The Brooklyn Tabernacle sounds a similar theme in its plan for a $37 million "campus" designed by Kapell & Kostow and centered on the 81-year-old Metropolitan Theater, one block from Macy's on the Fulton Street mall. The facade of the theater and two adjoining buildings will be reclad in brick and limestone and a bell tower will be added at the corner of Livingston and Gallatin Streets, rising 115 feet.
"Just as the Lord is our lighthouse," the Tabernacle declares on its Web site, "we pray that this new campus will act as a lighthouse to the lost and needy."
Loew's Metropolitan was built in 1918 in the shell of an old dry-goods store. It was designed by Thomas W. Lamb, arguably the foremost theatrical architect of his day, and is lush with ornamentation, including medallions and cameo-like reliefs with crouching sphinxes and gamboling sprites.
With the removal of interior walls that had divided the theater into a quad, the astonishing enormity of the auditorium is once again apparent. Its deep balcony seems to sweep halfway across downtown.
And the tabernacle can use the space. Its nationally renowned choir has more people -- 250 -- than many congregations. All told, it counts 10,000 members and has long since outgrown the 1,400-seat former Carlton Theater at Flatbush and Seventh Avenues, which was remodeled as a sanctuary 20 years ago by Maurice Wasserman, now a principal at Kapell & Kostow.
At the Metropolitan, the stage must be expanded, with risers for the choir and a sunken orchestra pit. New lighting and sound systems will be installed, as well as audio and video recording equipment.
But as much of Mr. Lamb's architectural detail will be preserved as possible, said Michael Kostow, using original drawings from the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University.
"The tabernacle, from day one, was 100 percent behind restoring the interior," Mr. Kostow said. "It was important for them to give something back to Brooklyn."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. David Johnson of St. Martin's Episcopal Church in Harlem, under the 42-bell carillon. Above: plywood panels cover the deteriorating copper roof of St. Martin's bell tower. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); A new timber roof has been completed at Central Synagogue in mid-Manhattan to replace the original, destroyed by fire in August 1998 (inset). (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times; Keith Meyers/The New York Times (inset) ) (pg. 1); A new roof and skylights were built this year at the Eldridge Street Synagogue on the Lower East Side, allowing rehabilitation to begin on the sanctuary (right). Some stained glass is already restored (left). (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); The Brooklyn Tabernacle will convert the former Loew's Metropolitan Theater -- its water-damaged Fulton Street lobby is shown above -- into a church complex, adding a bell tower on Livingston Street. (Jack M. Kucy (photographs); Kapell & Kostow/Vladistav Yeliseyev (rendering) ) (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; CENTRAL SYNAGOGUE (NYC); ROOFS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RELIGION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CHURCH & STATE (76%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); ROOFING MATERIALS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (61%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W DAVID S JOHNSON (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



630 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: One Person's Frivolities Are Another's Enrichment

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In response to Francis Filardo's letter last Sunday, which included band and chorus in a list of "frivolities" that take time and energy away from "serious" studies in school, I couldn't disagree more vehemently. Music is a serious discipline, and all students should have the opportunity to explore their talents and interests in that area. This is especially so if they come from educationally and economically deprived families that wouldn't otherwise expose them to the arts. In fact, I'd say that any experience that gives students a view of the wider world will enrich them and provide them with the resources helpful in choosing a fulfilling path in life. 
 I did learn how to read and write in school, and struggled through accelerated math for no good reason that I can tell. Today, I earn a living as a graphic designer. I'm also a performing musician, and have earned a few paychecks from writing as well.
One of my biggest regrets from my high school years is that I was unable to take chorus as well as art; there weren't enough elective slots.
 
LIZ PAGAN
Bloomfield 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MUSIC LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); 

PERSON: PAGAN, LIZ; FILARDO, FRANCIS FRANCIS FILARDO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



631 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Governor Leads the Charge Against Taxing the Internet

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
TO listen to Gov. James S. Gilmore III of Virginia, a conservative, tax-cutting Republican, the escalating debate over whether to make the Internet a permanently tax-free shopping zone is no contest.
He brushed aside concerns that state and local sales tax revenue would dry up as shoppers fled the malls for the Web. He suggested that traditional retailers should stop whining about unfair competition from the Internet and start viewing the technology as an opportunity to build new markets. And he said the best economic strategy is to nurture the potential of the Web to preserve the competitive advantage that is the basis of the America's current prosperity. 
 "I don't have the slightest interest in destroying the tax base of cities, states and counties," Mr. Gilmore said in an interview. "But there is an interesting philosophical debate going on here. Some politicians are basically saying that you have to have fairness and a level playing field. Since we're going to have a sales tax, we have to apply it to the Internet."
That, Mr. Gilmore said, is precisely the wrong approach.
"Government is entitled to the revenue it needs to provide services, but it is not entitled to reach into new areas to get revenues it doesn't need," he said. "Government is not entitled to a taxation windfall just because a new industry has emerged."
If there were any doubts that the Internet is reshaping the economy in fundamental and far-reaching ways, they were dispelled this year, as dot-com stocks drove Wall Street, as the stodgiest of corporations embraced the power of the Web and as technology-driven enhancements in business efficiency startled Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve.
But economic policy makers are only beginning to respond, and the political parties are just starting to recognize the potency of technology-related issues.
No issue has had a higher profile in recent months than tax-free cybershopping, a perk (or quirk) of electronic commerce that millions of consumers enjoyed for the first time this holiday shopping season. Online shoppers usually must pay for shipping, but rarely pay any sales tax on goods bought from companies that do not have physical presence, like a store or a warehouse, in the state where they live.
The issue has come up regularly in the presidential campaign. Both Al Gore and George W. Bush have said they favor extending the current moratorium on Internet taxation while the matter is studied, but are concerned about the fallout for state finances and traditional retailers. Most of Mr. Bush's Republican rivals want to make the moratorium permanent.
It is a tough issue, raising questions of fairness and ideology without providing much middle ground on which a compromise can be built, and there are passionate voices on both sides.
But no one argues the case against Internet taxation more vociferously or with greater certitude than Mr. Gilmore. He has built his political identity on tax cutting, and the state he governs is home to one of the most successful technology corridors outside California, with America Online among his many Internet-dependent constituents.
Mr. Gilmore was chosen by Republican leaders in Congress to be chairman of a national commission studying the issue. Its latest meeting, this month in San Francisco, reached a deadlock between members who think applying sales tax to electronic transactions is both proper and technically feasible and those, like Mr. Gilmore, who think it would be a mistake and would anyway be too complicated to enforce.
FOR starters, Mr. Gilmore said, there is no sign that online sales are coming at the expense of traditional retailers or are eating into state and local tax revenues.
"The statistical data will have to come later," he said. "But at this point you only have to look into the stores and the malls and ask, 'How's business?' Business is booming. There is no evidence I can see that sales tax revenue is down or that commerce in traditional bricks-and-mortar retailing is down."
The governor's message to traditional retailers, especially local stores, is to stop fighting the Internet and embrace it: "It's wonderful for small business. It's a dynamic development that gives small-business people the ability to broaden their bases and compete with big business."
Mr. Gilmore acknowledged the importance of ensuring Internet access for the poor, so online commerce and its benefits will not flow only to those who can afford computers and monthly service fees.
His bottom line is that because no one can foresee precisely how electronic commerce will develop or what its economic effects will be, the best policy is to bar the door to Internet sales taxes. But that same uncertainty might equally argue for a more flexible approach, one that does not prejudge where technology will drive an economy now changing in ways no one yet fully grasps. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SALES TAX (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GILMORE, JAMES S 3D (GOV) JIM GILMORE (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



632 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
A Company Worth More Than Spain?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Crazy markets call for wacky stock valuation methods. Forget price-to-sales ratios; why not rank stocks based on the gross domestic products of the world's nations?
G.D.P., to be sure, is the yearly output of goods and services of a country, while market value, a company's total worth, changes daily. Moreover, G.D.P. cannot capture all that is generated in the information age. 
 But with stocks so high, it is a telling exercise. "These stocks have become like major land masses," Theodore Aronson, principal of Aronson & Partners in Philadelphia. "There's nothing to compare them to anymore. It's price to fantasy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart of the world
Gross domestic products of selected countries and companies whose market capitalizations are about equal to them.
 
Juniper Networks
$16 billion
CUBA
 
Phone.com
$8 billion
JAMAICA
 
I.B.M.
$201 billion
COLOMBIA
 
Oracle
$121 billion
CHILE
 
Wal-Mart Stores
$296 billion
ARGENTINA
 
Citigroup
$184 billion
EGYPT
 
Hewlett-Packard
$107 billion
GREECE
 
Sprint PCS
$43 billion
TUNISIA
 
Microsoft
$593 billion
SPAIN
 
Intel
$246 billion
POLAND
 
VA Linux Systems
$9 billion
LATVIA
 
Merck
$161 billion
UKRAINE
 
Lucent Technologies
$227 billion
SOUTH AFRICA
 
Sycamore Networks
$19 billion
TANZANIA
 
Internet Capital
$33 billion
KUWAIT
 
Cisco Systems
$344 billion
IRAN
 
Home Depot
$155 billion
BANGLADESH
 
General Electric
$456 billion
THAILAND
 
Dell Computer
$109 billion
VIETNAM
 
America Online
$194 billion
PHILIPPINES
 
FreeMarkets
$11 billion
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
 
American
Express
$66 billion
NEW ZEALAND
 
Qualcomm
$72 billion
SINGAPORE
 
(Sources: The World Almanac; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED STATES (71%); PHILIPPINES (59%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (59%); LATVIA (59%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ARONSON & PARTNERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED STATES (71%); PHILIPPINES (59%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (59%); LATVIA (59%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (82%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN THEODORE ARONSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



633 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER EAST SIDE/EAST VILLAGE;
A Room of Their Own: Girls Club Seeks a City-Owned Site

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE 

 BODY:
Ten-year-old Amanda Wright mingled on the steps of City Hall last week with a dozen of her friends.
The group, members of the Lower Eastside Girls Club, had just presented more than 3,500 postcards signed by parents and neighbors to a representative of the mayor's office, asking Mayor Giuliani to let the group buy a vacant city-owned lot on Avenue D between Seventh and Eighth Streets, to build a place for their club. 
 The club was founded in 1995 as a place where "girls can develop confidence in themselves." It offers an after-school tutoring program, a baking company that serves as an entrepreneurial training program, and a book club, among other activities.
Why does the club, which serves 150 girls between 8 and 18 each week, need its own building? Amanda and her friends answered promptly.
"There are a lot of girls who want to be in the Girls Club, but they can't, because there is no room," said Amanda, who joined the group in September.
Tania Hernandez, 14, who has been a club member for more than three years, said they needed more space for basketball and swimming.
Antoinette Valentin, 10, agreed. "We need more space for more girls and more room for our activities," she said.
Those activities are now held "in schools and community centers and churches, in other people's space," said Lyn Pentecost, the executive director and a club founder.
In remarks outside City Hall, Ms. Pentecost said Community Board 3 recommended a year ago that the lot be given to the club. "Why is it taking so long?" she asked.
Ms. Pentecost said she had spent two years talking with the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development about other vacant lots in the neighborhood. When the girls' club found the Avenue D site, Ms. Pentecost said, the housing agency referred her to the city's Economic Development Corporation.
"We've been working with the girls club since October," said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the agency. "We received an incomplete proposal two weeks ago and have requested additional information."
Ms. Pentecost said she submitted a detailed explanation, and feared that the corporation, which must decide whether to sell the land, would keep seeking more information "for the next 10 years."
The club raises money through public and private grants and community fund-raising activities. It has financing for two connected buildings: a three-story structure on East Eighth Street and a seven-story one on Avenue D. That building would also include retail shops on the first floor as well as office space and rooms for other organizations.
With a new building, the club will be able to serve more than 1,000 girls, Ms. Pentecost said.
 ERIC V. COPAGE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Lower Eastside Girls Club made their plea at City Hall. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOWER EASTSIDE GIRLS CLUB GIRLS CLUB (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER EASTSIDE GIRLS CLUB GIRLS CLUB (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); BASKETBALL (51%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: COPAGE, ERIC V; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



634 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Among New York Centenarians, a Few Factories

BYLINE: By REBECCA COONEY 

 BODY:
FOR the last two centuries, New York has been a home to industry. From sugar refining to candy making, from printing to the manufacture of musical instruments, clothing, pharmaceuticals, paints, barrels and tanks, industry has helped shape the city. Perhaps that was no surprise, given the city's wealth of immigrant labor, its port and the number of buyers.
For much of the 20th century, manufacturing has been on the decline in New York, as in other urban centers. Now, the city focuses on service and information. But reminders of the industrial past remain, businesses that have been making the same products for 100 years, even if the technology has changed. 
 Domino Sugar in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is the last sugar refinery left. In the 1880's, there were seven operating on the Brooklyn waterfront. During the last half of the 19th century, New York was the national center of the printing industry; before World War I, there were hundreds of mom-and-pop engraving shops, specializing in stationery, business cards and stock certificates, said Jeffrey R. Van Zandt, the third-generation owner of Continental-Anchor Ltd., an engraving business in Long Island City, Queens.
But the advent of larger, more expensive presses that could handle greater volume, and diminished demand for fancy cards and stationery put many such firms out of business by the 1960's. Today there are just a handful. And while manufacturers of musical instruments were the city's fifth-biggest employer in the mid-19th century, according to The Encyclopedia of New York City, only one piano maker is left, Steinway & Sons.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROSENWACH TANK -- The barrel on the city's seal is a testament to the importance of cask making in New York's development. In 1896, the Rosenwach family bought a barrel-making company for $55. Rosenwach Tank, with factories in Williamsburg and Long Island City, still makes the wooden water tanks seen on the city's skyline. Computers and machine tools are used, but tanks are erected in virtually the same way as early in the century.; CONTINENTAL-ANCHOR --Founded in 1890 in Lower Manhattan, Continental specializes in engraved stationery and cards. In the 60's, it began buying up other engraving firms; it moved to Long Island City in 1994. Though Continental uses computers for its designs, it employs pressmen like Eugene Joseph, above, for the careful placing of paper in the presses.; FIBRE CASE AND NOVELTY -- Since 1894, Fibre Case and Novelty in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, has been making cases for clothing for the garment industry, which has been a major force in the city's economy, thanks to its many immigrant workers. This third-generation business manufactures cases much the same way it has for more than a century, although now the material is plastic, not fiber. Above, Julio Aquilar rivets a case.; STEINWAY & SONS -- From 1860 to 1910, Steinway & Sons had a factory on Park Avenue between 52nd and 53rd Streets. Its factory on 19th Avenue and Steinway Place in Astoria, Queens, above, has been making pianos since 1871. In its special tuning room, Alexander Hernandez tunes a piano. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ROSENWACH TANK (CO); FIBRE CASE AND NOVELTY (CO); DOMINO SUGAR (CO); CONTINENTAL-ANCHOR LTD; STEINWAY & SONS STEINWAY & SONS (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSENWACH TANK (CO); FIBRE CASE AND NOVELTY (CO); DOMINO SUGAR (CO); CONTINENTAL-ANCHOR LTD; STEINWAY & SONS LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PIANOS; SUGAR; STATIONERY; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING; HISTORY; TWENTIETH CENTURY SUGAR MFG (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (91%); MUSIC (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); TRENDS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (58%); WORLD WAR I (53%); 

PERSON: COONEY, REBECCA

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



635 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Volvo S40;
Will Young Americans Adopt a Baby Volvo?

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR 

 BODY:
THESE days, an automaker doesn't want to be caught offering a dull, me-too product in the heart of the market. The $25,000 price range is a predatory jungle inhabited by best sellers like the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord, American favorites like the Ford Taurus and Buick LeSabre and sporty imports like the BMW 323i and Audi A4 -- not to mention a battalion of minivans, well-regarded sedans like the Volkswagen Passat and Olds Intrigue and sporty coupes like the Toyota Celica.
Now there is also the Volvo S40, a compact sport sedan priced just below $25,000 that is aimed at the young buyers who have long eluded, or even ignored, Volvo. This will be a very tough market for the Swedish company to crack. If things aren't crowded enough now, Lexus and Jaguar have new small cars in the works. 
 Volvo, known for its extensive safety features, has generally catered to older buyers (average age, 45) who didn't mind trading a little flair in the styling department and a little sizzle under the hood for big, boxy, even boring designs. Big, boxy and boring aren't my words -- they rolled off the tongues of 20-to-35-year olds when Volvo asked them to describe its cars.
With the S40 sedan -- and a wagon version called the V40 -- Volvo is trying to attract younger buyers with a few coins jangling in their pockets. The auto marketers call this the "entry-level luxury market." In fact, it is a big-growth, high-profit business where every luxury brand worthy of its burled wood inserts and heated seats is trying to make a splash.
Volvo wants buyers who are under 35 and don't mind the limits of a smaller car, who want some European panache but might not have the cash for an Audi, BMW or a Saab, all of which can easily barrel through the $30,000 level.
The S40 and the V40 are the latest in a string of new models that Volvo has brought to the United States. By next fall, the auto maker -- which was bought by Ford this year -- will have completed a three-year overhaul of its entire American lineup. Last year, its most significant change was the S80, a new flagship sedan with front-wheel drive and nary a square corner on its skin.
The S40 echoes that look. With a nicely raked front end and a swooping rear roofline, this curvy little Volvo is attractive. It feels small inside, but the space is cleverly used. The rear seat is surprisingly roomy, for instance, thanks to a design trick: The rear seats are angled back more than usual to put extra space between the front and rear passengers and increase the headroom.
The S40 comes well-equipped, especially in comparison with the hot-selling BMW 323i, a car with a starting price $4,000 higher. On its base model, BMW skimps on touches that buyers have come to expect: front and rear armrests cost extra, the visors do not have lighted mirrors and the rear seat does not fold to add cargo space.
The S40, which is built in the Netherlands in a joint venture with Mitsubishi, comes with all those trimmings and more. While BMW offers a powerful 2.5-liter six-cylinder engine, Volvo uses a 1.9-liter in-line four that is turbocharged and intercooled to perk up acceleration. The engine certainly delivers reasonable pickup and handling for a sport sedan, but it does not have the power surge of BMW's six. Volvo has tried to reduce the lag time before the turbo kicks in, but I still noticed a slight hesitation before the car raced ahead.
With its balanced suspension, precise steering and firm ride, the BMW 3-Series has long served as the ride-and-handling benchmark for sport sedans. Volvo cannot match BMW in that respect, but it does not fall far off the mark. I did not feel as confident in the S40 on parkway cloverleafs and twisting country roads as I did in the BMW or, for that matter, in the Audi A4. The Swedes can still learn something from the Germans about suspensions and handling.
And Volvo might even consult its countrymen at Saab, whose 9-3 and 9-5 cars have the most impresive turbocharged four-cylinder engines I have yet encountered.
Volvo does excel in safety features; If you want to feel safer, you might consider an armored personnel carrier. There are two huge air bags in the dashboard and two in the sides of each front seat that provide extensive protection to heads and torsos. The passenger compartment has been substantially reinforced, in case of a rollover, and the side pillars and door beams were engineered to absorb the brunt of the impact if the car is struck from the side.
The headrests, though they don't offer much comfort in highway cruising, are supposed to provide elaborate whiplash protection if the car is struck from the rear.
For all the focus on safety, however, the S40 does not have a headrest in the center of the rear seat, something one finds on less expensive European cars like the Volkswagen Jetta. The S40 does have a three-point belt for the middle rear passenger.
There are also pockets in the backs of the front seats and small side pockets in the rear doors. The rear seat is split in a 70-30 configuration, and both parts flip down to swallow cargo that the trunk cannot contain. There was but one cup holder for the rear passengers (and just one more up front), and the rear windows did not fully retract.
But the biggest annoyance was the placement of the power window buttons on the center console, next to the mirror controls. With the armrest down, those buttons are difficult to reach. Time and again as I approached a toll booth, I groped for the window buttons and ended up moving the mirrors out of place or accidentally lowering the passenger window. Volvo says it has heard similar complaints and plans to redesign the center console on 2001 models.
Otherwise, the Volvo was cozy but comfortable. The seats delivered pleasant support and included adjustable lower-back support. Wind noise was minimal. The four-speed automatic transmission has three shift modes: sport, economy and winter. A five-speed manual transmission is not available, but Volvo says it is thinking of adding one. Sporting drivers can shift for themselves with the A4, 323i and Infiniti G20.
In a crowded field, the S40 certainly stood out for its safety and for its value. Compared with the three cars I drove for comparison's sake, the S40 was less expensive than the BMW and the Audi and not much more than the G20. As for the curse of being big, boxy and boring, Volvo has definitely overcome the first two. It is making progress on the third.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A starter Volvo for would-be Bimmer buyers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Volvo's compact S40 sedan poses a direct challenge to the Audi A4 and BMW 323i.
 
Chart: "Small Imported Sedans with Big Name Labels" lists features and specifications for selected imported Sedans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAABB (STO) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: VOLVO AB SAAB AB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REVIEWS SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ADOPTION (74%); 

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



636 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
In Search of Frequent Gamblers

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS

 BODY:
GARY W. LOVEMAN, chief operating officer of Harrah's Entertainment, thinks gamblers are promiscuous. "We have customers who play around with everybody," he says.
He is referring not to bedroom habits, but rather to gamblers' lack of loyalty to any particular casino company. Mr. Loveman, a former Harvard Business School professor, is trying to change that. If he succeeds, he will have created a new model for growth in the casino business. 
 Harrah's has invested more than $100 million in computers and software to develop what is widely regarded as the industry's most sophisticated "frequent bettor" program. Like airline frequent-flier plans, Harrah's "Total Rewards" program awards participants with perks -- in this case, rooms, meals and other benefits -- and bombards them with promotional mail.
The idea is to grow by getting more business from Harrah's existing casinos and customer base. That is in contrast to the strategy of other companies: building splashy new casinos.
"There is a huge margin for profitable growth without having to build ever more elaborate and sophisticated facilities," said Mr. Loveman, wearing a pullover shirt at Harrah's headquarters here, where everyone else seemed to be in suits. It is, he said, "the triumph of software over hardware in gaming."
So far, analysts say, the strategy is working. Harrah's and its chief executive, Philip G. Satre, have received praise from trade magazines.
Joseph V. Coccimiglio, an analyst with Prudential Securities, says Harrah's has had greater revenue growth in most markets than the industry as a whole, despite having casinos that are far from the fanciest. In the third quarter, he said, Harrah's grew nearly three times as fast as the overall market in Laughlin, Nev., and twice as fast in Atlantic City.
Even rivals have praise for the initiative. "Harrah's has done far better than anyone at that, and they've developed a brand in an industry that's brandless," said James J. Murren, chief financial officer of MGM Grand.
But Harry Curtis, an analyst at Robertson Stephens, cautioned that it was too early to tell how much of the success stemmed from Harrah's strategy and how much from the overall strength of the gambling business.
Mr. Loveman, 39, received his doctorate in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and became an assistant professor at the Harvard Business School, writing papers or books on topics from technology to Eastern European economic reform.
He also taught a popular course in the management of service companies. "That was his real obsession," said Thomas DeLong, a professor of management at Harvard. He said that it was not unusual for professors there to go into consulting or investment banking, but that gambling was a bit of a surprise.
Several years ago, Mr. Loveman taught a training course at the Promus Companies, predecessor to Harrah's. He was smitten by gambling -- as a business and as an academic challenge, though not as a pastime. "It's a data-rich industry," he said, "and analytically it's quite sophisticated," making it an ideal place to test his theories.
Mr. Loveman wrote an unsolicited letter to Mr. Satre offering ideas on how the company could grow. He was hired as a consultant. Later, in May 1998, though he had never held a full-time corporate job, Mr. Loveman was hired as chief operating officer.
Mr. Satre said an outsider was needed to carry out Harrah's marketing effort."If there's an analogy, it's Lou Gerstner going into I.B.M.," he said, referring to Mr. Gerstner's move from RJR Nabisco..
In 1997, Harrah's started its rewards program, in which customers are issued a card that they insert into slot machines and that keeps track of how much they gamble. Other casinos have similar programs, but Harrah's offers it on a national basis, with the points valid at any of its 19 casinos.
"This works because we have the broadest distribution of properties," Mr. Satre said. To expand its empire, Harrah's in the last two years has bought the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas and the Showboat chain and has agreed to acquire Players International Inc.
In an industry that generally develops its talent internally, Mr. Loveman has hired data-mining and marketing experts from companies like American Express. New software has been developed that not only keeps track of how much customers gamble but predicts who might be induced to gamble more. Sixty-five percent of the gambling in the company's casinos is now done by its nine million card holders.
Officially on a two-year leave from Harvard that ends in June, Mr. Loveman spends weekends with his wife and three children at his home in Wellesley, Mass. But Mr. Loveman said that when his leave expires, he will resign from the ivory tower to stay at Harrah's. "It's been certainly the most exciting period of time I've had in my professional life," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary W. Loveman, the chief operating officer of Harrah's, at its Showboat Casino in Atlantic City. He says his industry can grow by getting more business from existing operations. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARRAH'S ENTERTAINMENT CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (52%); HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARRAH'S ENTERTAINMENT HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EMERGING MARKETS (63%); 

PERSON: LOVEMAN, GARY W; POLLACK, ANDREW GARY LOVEMAN (94%); JAMES J MURREN (58%); PHILIP G SATRE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



637 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
A Blip, But With A Legacy

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN barely 50 years, we baby boomers have certainly made our mark on the current millennium. We have risen to political power and created a high-technology world that will shape the future. On the calendar, we have been but a blip in this millennium, but one that has made much noise. Who can dispute that boomers are on top now?
But as we celebrate on Friday, we should be aware that what dawns on Saturday will be the beginning of the end of baby-boomer dominance. It won't be our millennium; it won't even be our century. I suspect that when our great-grandchildren celebrate the arrival of 2100, the phrase baby boomer will have long gone out of the vocabulary. What exactly was a flapper, anyway? 
 So what will happen to boomers in the next century? We will soon know whether boomers were able to accomplish the basics, like saving enough for retirement and enough to send the baby boomlet through college, and some of us may learn whether it was wise to spend $1 million in the New York suburbs for a five-bedroom home on a quarter-acre lot. Will we really be retiring early, as many of us dream, or will we be hanging on until someone puts us out to pasture?
To get an idea of what is in store for us, I asked two experts, both of them baby boomers themselves: Edward N. Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University, who has long studied wealth and its effects, and Bambi Holzer, a senior vice president for investments at PaineWebber, who wrote "Retire Rich: The Baby Boomer's Guide to a Secure Future" (John Wiley & Sons, 1998).
Optimistic about their generation, both said boomers were likely to meet all their financial goals. Mr. Wolff said it would be a remarkable achievement, considering that boomers entered the work force when the economy was stagnant and that the sheer volume of workers kept wages low. And the money they did have, he said, they spent.
"This was the spendthrift generation 20 years ago, the generation that didn't save at all," he said. "Now they've accumulated a large amount of wealth. It will turn out that they did better than their parents because their parents were more conservative. Baby boomers have been much more adventurous."
Mr. Wolff said his research showed that in 1998, the average wealth of baby boomers 44 to 49 years old was about $245,000, more than 60 percent more than what their parents had at the same age, adjusted for inflation.
He and Ms. Holzer said one reason was that with the decline of traditional pensions, boomers had to take over saving for their retirement. That taught them how to invest.
"The baby boomer generation was the first do-it-yourself generation in investing," she said. "As a result of that education, our generation is aware of the investment process. It has been forecast that the 401(k) assets amassed by individuals will be greater than the value of their homes."
IF we're so smart, will we be smart enough to get out in time, before a market crash?
Mr. Wolff says yes, and he even thinks that we probably won't get stuck with overpriced houses. But it may not have anything to do with savvy. We will just become more conservative with money.
"I think what's going to happen is those close to retirement are going to buy retirement homes," he said. "Boomers will also begin to diversify more into bonds and liquid assets, such as CD's and Treasury bills. And they will pay off outstanding mortgages."
On retirement, Mr. Wolff and Ms. Holzer both predicted that boomers wouldn't keep it simple. "Boomers won't want a rocking-chair retirement," Ms. Holzer said.
Mr. Wolff said boomers did not identify with careers as their parents did and would gladly let go of the reins. They would then direct energies elsewhere.
"Baby boomers are more interested in personal fulfillment," he said. "They will be much more in tune with bettering themselves. I think they will still be a force politically and culturally and will contribute to the intellectual life of the country."
That's quite an assessment for a generation that had such a countercultural start. Boomers, Mr. Wolff said, will accomplish their goals "despite their gloomy beginning and the initial perception of the generation, much to our parents' surprise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (53%); JWA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY BABY BOOMERS (93%); MILLENNIUM (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); LABOR FORCE (66%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES; WOLFF, EDWARD (PROF); HOLZER, BAMBI EDWARD N WOLFF (92%); BAMBI HOLZER (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



638 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Rail Stocks: What's Beyond The Tunnel?

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
A LITTLE over a century ago, railroads were the equivalent of today's Internet stocks.
These days, the $40 billion North American railroad industry remains a core component of the economic and transportation infrastructure. But no one will confuse Burlington Northern Santa Fe or Canadian National Railway -- which last week announced a $6 billion deal to form the biggest railroad on the continent -- with Yahoo. 
 The merger is the latest of many over the last few years. But consolidation and good economic times have yet to do much to raise the bottom line. And investors are really turned off: for the last three years, the group has badly underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Gary Yablon, a managing director and transportation analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, took some time last week to talk about the merger, the railroads and their competitors. Following are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Wall Street was not immediately impressed with the Burlington-Canadian deal. Do you think this is a good marriage?
 
A. It makes sense longer term. Both companies will achieve more together than they would separately.
A big part of the reason it makes sense is that these two roads are leveraging themselves to north-south trade, be it Canada-U.S. trade or Mexico-U.S. trade. The volume of this Nafta trade, if you like, is growing two to three times faster than the volume of domestic trade flowing from east to west, or vice versa.
But when investors see the results they have seen over the last couple of years, they tend to be skeptical.
 
Q. There is also some doubt about whether it will be approved by regulators. Will it?
 
A. I suspect it will get approved. There is not much overlap between the two roads. The things I understand the Surface Transportation Board looks at are public harms and public benefits, and how much one offsets the other. And I don't think the other railroads feel this is such an intrusive merger that they will need to fight it.
 
Q. The strong economy and the cost-cutting that comes as an industry consolidates are conditions that Wall Street usually loves. But the railroads haven't yet seen much benefit. Why not?
 
A. To begin with, we are in an economy that has been driven more by service improvements than by rising production of things like chemicals, coal, grain and lumber. And hauling those sorts of things is what the railroads do.
Also, the strong economy masks some things. Because the dollar has been strong, coal traffic, which is a lucrative market for railroads, has been declining due to more attractively priced coal from other countries. Similarly, grain traffic bound for Asia has been anemic because of the crisis in that region. That has hurt and put a cloud over revenues.
And there have been integration issues stemming from these mergers, particularly in the East, where Norfolk Southern and CSX split up Conrail. Whatever revenue stream you have seen from these mergers has been masked by integration costs.
Railroads realize they must get service up to satisfy their shippers before they can turn to looking out for their shareholders. That is one of the reasons the stocks have not done so well.
 
 
Q. Can you make an investment case for owning railroads right now?
 
A. I am not making the investment case for railroads right now.
Historically, we have been quite bullish on the group. But over the last couple of years, that has not been the case. I think the industry needs to improve service levels and show that congestion-related issues are falling by the wayside. Improvement in those areas will raise investor confidence and the valuation of these stocks. Broadly speaking, that is not happening on a steady-enough basis at the moment.
Still, at the moment, we are recommending Union Pacific and Burlington Northern.
 
Q. Of the freight transportation groups you follow -- air transport, railroads and trucks -- which one has the best investment potential over the next year?
 
A. Over the course of the next year, truckers have the best potential, followed by rails and then air freight, with the exception of United Parcel Service.
Trucking share prices are trading at almost recession-like levels and shippers are using fewer and fewer truckers.
Right now, the only stock that is working and has worked is USFreightways.
Two others are Swift Transportation and Covenant Transport. Both companies are 20 percent growers whose stocks are trading at historically low valuations. Both are non-union organizations with enormous, enormous potential. They do have the risk of rising gasoline prices, but they can pass that through to customers in the form of higher prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Yablon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: CNR (TSX) (58%); CNI (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO (58%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); APPROVALS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BONDS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); COAL PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; YABLON, GARY

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



639 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3462 words

HEADLINE: Down and Out on Wall Street

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
AH, the roaring stock market. With averages and indexes setting one record after another, investment profits seem like an American birthright.
Yet at a time when tales of investment coups are as likely to be heard over family dinners as among high-fiving traders at Wall Street watering holes, it is easy to overlook the truism that there is a seller for every buyer -- and that some of those skeptics are deserting the market, not moving on to the next can't-lose stock. 
 In fin-de-siecle America, you don't hear so much from this dour segment of investors and seers, this sloth of bears. They considered the market expensive when the Dow Jones industrial average was half its current level. They thought buying the dips was a trap. As 1999 began, they took comfort in the fact that the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had never risen more than 20 percent for four consecutive years, as it had from 1995 through 1998, and then climbed further.
So miss much of the greatest bull market in history they did. So far, in 1999 alone, the Dow has jumped an additional 24 percent, the Wilshire 5000 has risen 20.6 percent and the S.& P. has gained 18.6 percent. Most spectacularly, the Nasdaq composite, fueled by technology issues, has rocketed 81 percent, the most for any major index since 1915.
It is not easy being a bear. As the days have passed, some have suffered from tarnished reputations and the loss of clients -- even jobs. And they've had to endure the withering scorn of market evangelists.
"Who could have ever dreamed that this thing would go as far as it did?" asked Barton M. Biggs, chairman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management and the firm's chief global strategist, who turned wary in mid-1998.
Certainly not David W. Tice, whose Prudent Bear mutual fund, which sells stocks short in anticipation that they will fall, has been one of the worst-performing of more than 3,000 mutual funds the last three years.
Nor Charles I. Clough, 57, chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, who in August announced his retirement. In recent years, he has advised investors to allocate more money to bonds and cash -- to the annoyance of many Merrill brokers.
Then there is Gail Dudack of Warburg Dillon Read, a market technician, who was abruptly bounced this autumn as a member of the so-called Elves Index panel on the "Wall Street Week" television program. Louis Rukeyser, the host, explained that Ms. Dudack had simply been bearish too long and was undermining the Elf consensus of rising prices in the short term.
All along, the technology-driven stock market has soared with an irrepressible American economy as its accomplice; economic growth has persistently exceeded its supposed speed limits, while inflation has remained at bay.
In February, the uninterrupted expansion that began in March 1991 will set a longevity record, 107 months. Productivity has also surged. And the unemployment rate has sunk so low, scarcely above 4 percent, that many economists are rethinking its longstanding inverse relationship with inflation.
Indeed, an economy that once looked like a bubble of excessive exuberance, not unlike Japan's a decade ago, now seems highly resistant to forces like higher interest rates. And a sage like Lawrence B. Lindsey, a former Federal Reserve governor who is the top economic adviser to George W. Bush, can only regret that he sold his stocks 18 months and 2,800 Dow points ago, believing them overvalued.
Despite their errant predictions, members of the bear contingent of the 1990's remain convinced -- even adamant -- that they will be proved right. And they have their reasons. Their rationales go far beyond the structural bias on Wall Street that minimizes expression of the downbeat, that makes sell recommendations as rare as dinosaurs (as the chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission observed recently), and that can mean a loss of underwriting business or, for an analyst, being cut off from contact with a company's management.
In fact, some bears say their ranks are bigger than is evident -- and growing with each new breathtaking Nasdaq milestone. "Some of our biggest clients," said James S. Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, which bets on price declines, "are some of Wall Street's leading executives." Many other market professionals, secretly worried, acknowledge privately that they remain fully invested against their better judgment.
"The problem is that a lot of people increasingly believe that it's a bubble -- but they're long," said Marc Faber, a onetime Wall Streeter who works in Hong Kong. "When it changes direction, I think you will get big selling pressure."
At the latest reading, the Consensus Index of Bullish Market Opinion for stocks, compiled weekly by Consensus Inc. of Kansas City, stood at 52. In other words, close to half of the large brokers and investment advisers the firm monitors are bearish on the overall market. That compares with a fourth-quarter peak of 60 just before Thanksgiving.
Still, the bears remain outnumbered by the bulls, who see the new economy as justifying the ebullience. They think the bears are transfixed by historical analysis. "They're really children of the 70's," said Gail D. Fosler, chief economist for the Conference Board, a research group. "There is just an incredible diffusion of technology" that has raised productivity and thus economic prospects.
But it is not just the market's relentless climb that makes the bears bears. They worry about stocks' grounding in economic reality, pointing to threats like the record American trade deficit and what they see as unsustainable consumer spending.
 
Leon Levy
Leon Levy, a founder of Oppenheimer & Company, whose Midas touch is the stuff of Wall Street legend, says it has been a "humbling experience" to have been so wrong on two counts: first, badly underestimating investors' love affair with technology in recent years and, of even greater consequence, doubting that the economy would get through the decade without a recession.
But he is not about to change. Mr. Levy, relaxing in his capacious Midtown Manhattan apartment, which is filled with his renowned collection of Greek and Roman antiquities, sees storm clouds thickening in all directions.
"I would be surprised if it lasted for more than six to nine months," he said of the roaring bull market. When stocks fall, he added, today's avid investors are likely to turn into tomorrow's cautious consumers.
For Mr. Levy, who is 74, the talk of a new economic paradigm that dismisses the idea of recession -- and underpins the bull market -- arouses thoughts of the 1920's. That is when cars became affordable for the average worker and a flood of inventions promised other previously unimaginable things.
"Were the cheap automobile, which led to the suburbs, the shopping center and everything else, and the telephone and the radio less revolutionary than the Internet?" he asked. "It seems to me they were not."
The Levy analysis -- propounded full time by Mr. Levy's nephew, David A. Levy, from the family's Levy Institute Forecasting Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. -- is based on an observation by Leon Levy's father, Jerome Levy. Before World War I, he expressed the belief, then surprising but now conventional wisdom, that profits are what make employers hire, generating other blessings.
Nowadays, the Levys worry that the reverse will happen: that a market break will cause consumers with a falling net worth to spend less, shrinking corporate profits and leaving the economy with a surfeit of office buildings, plants and machinery from what they contend has been far too much capital investment.
Leon Levy frets particularly about the rapidly expanding trade deficit, which reached another record in October, $25.9 billion, signaling a shift to production abroad. "This is something that shows no sign of reversing, and it has to come to a bad end," he said. Eventually, he added, it means fewer American jobs.
For now, though, David Levy said, the United States is short of workers, not jobs, and wage pressure is likely to push up inflation. "If the economy doesn't slow down enough to give us disappointing profits, then interest rates are going to keep rising," he said. "That greatly darkens the outlook for the stock market continuing this great mania that we've seen."
Plausible as that may be, David Levy stated in December 1995 that there was a 50 percent probability of a recession in 1996. It has yet to be sighted, of course. And the Dow industrials have jumped more than 4,000 points since then.
Despite his pessimism, Leon Levy remains heavily invested in stocks, which he pays other, generally much younger people to manage. His only hedge is taking short positions in some of the indexes. "I certainly don't tell them what to do," he said. "But I won't give money to a manager unless, when I ask him what he does when the market goes south, he has a well-thought-out answer."
 
Marc Faber
Marc Faber has been a close witness to bucketsful of economic and financial distress since moving to Hong Kong from Wall Street in 1973. Among them were Japan's 1989 stock market crash and the decadelong recession that ensued and may or may not have ended this year.
But nothing has impressed him as much -- or cost him so dearly -- as the wave of speculative ardor that has characterized the American stock market since at least 1996. It has taught this colorful, ponytailed, motorcycle-riding investor and adviser some painful lessons.
"This is the biggest bubble I've seen," thundered Mr. Faber, 53, a Swiss-born skeptic who writes The Gloom, Boom & Doom Report, a monthly commentary for subscribers. In a telephone interview from his office, where, as he commonly does, he was working well past midnight, he sounded like a true, if chastened, believer.
When assessing this market, he said, just look at the past. "Everything is depressed compared to Yahoo," he said, "but it's not necessarily depressed based on historical standards and compared to interest rates and compared to the earnings outlook."
The "good news," he contended, is that the bubble inevitably will burst -- perhaps as soon as January, a month with more than its share of historic reversals, including that of the Nikkei 225, Japan's benchmark stock index, a decade ago.
This implosion of stocks will drag the American economy, which has become dangerously subservient, along with it, he predicted. "Should U.S. stocks decline by as much as I believe they will, a U.S. recession will follow," he said.
While Mr. Faber has made many accurate calls (he was one of the few who predicted the Asian meltdown) being bearish about the United States has proved expensive. His short positions are losers, and he has made little or no gain putting money into gold and gold stocks, a strategy he has followed for years.
"The funny thing," Mr. Faber added, "is that you could have actually made money on the short side in the last two years because a lot of stocks went down. But if you concentrated on shorting what you perceived to be the most overvalued, it's that sector that has gone through the roof." That sector, of course, is high technology.
"I've been wrong about the U.S.," he acknowledged, citing two chief mistakes. He said he misjudged the willingness of Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, to allow speculative excesses to build after cautioning in December 1996 that there were signs of "irrational exuberance."
He is unnerved by what he considers to be an overly expansionary monetary policy here. "How come the monetary base has been expanding at an annual rate of over 22 percent for the last three months?" he asked.
His second misstep, Mr. Faber said, was failing to predict the frenzied scramble for Internet and other technology stocks. Many sell at unheard-of multiples of revenues and have no immediate prospect of earning a profit. "I have underestimated the enthusiasm, the speculative fever and the greed in the United States and around the world," he said. "I underestimated the stupidity of the public."
 
Barton M. Biggs
Though not the purest of the breed, Barton M. Biggs, who has been a relative bear on the American stock market for only 18 months, is as gloomy as the chief strategist of a major Wall Street house can afford to be.
"The technology, Internet and telecommunications craze has gone parabolic in what is one of the great, if not the greatest, manias of all time," he told Morgan Stanley clients in a recent essay on strategy. Expanding on that theme in an interview, Mr. Biggs, 67 and a former marine, called stocks overpriced by some 45 to 50 percent, according to the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter valuation model. The message: the place to put money is elsewhere.
"I'm convinced that over the next three to four years, the U.S. market is going to be the worst of the big markets in the world," Mr. Biggs said from his 22nd-floor Midtown Manhattan office. "I think it's going to underperform next year by, let's say, 10 to 12 percentage points and over the next five years by 3 to 5 points a year."
The problem, he said, is that the old economy is "getting crushed" by the so-called new one, resulting in a bifurcated stock market. The old category includes consumer icons that have lost pricing power because of deflation as well as traditional smokestack manufacturers. "Increasingly, the profitability of the old economy, ranging from Coke to Caterpillar, is under tremendous pressure," Mr. Biggs said. Indeed, many old-economy stocks have dropped to near-depression levels.
"I miscalculated how fast the Internet was going to impact the world," he added. "This is a wild thing that's happening here, this destruction of profitability." Between the third quarters of 1998 and 1999, aggregate corporate profits of manufacturers slid more than 5 percent, to $163.1 billion.
He, too, said the technology bubble would pop one day. "I'm no longer convinced that the Internet part of the new economy is going to anywhere near live up to the expectations embedded in stock prices," he said, stopping just shy of predicting that the shakeout will bring down the rest of the market.
But Mr. Biggs is sticking to a global allocation of about 65 percent stocks and 35 percent bonds. "I'm scared to death, but it's too painful to underweight stocks and hold a lot of cash and bonds," he said. "You're risking your business. They don't like it when you're in cash when the market goes up."
 
James S. Chanos
Running what he believes to be the biggest short-selling operation in the world, Kynikos Associates, James S. Chanos is a professional bear. Kynikos is derived from the Greek word for cynic, and Mr. Chanos makes his living finding stocks that are overvalued, then selling them in hopes of profiting from their eventual return to earth.
In this market, with the S.& P. 500 selling at 31.5 times earnings, nearly twice the historical norm, and with highfliers like eBay going for more than 1,000 times earnings, Mr. Chanos should be in his glory as he goes about deflating the overblown.
Instead, he has changed his ways.
In 1996, Mr. Chanos bowed to the times and created a second hedge fund, called Beta Hedge, to supplement his older, short-only fund, Ursus Partners. The new fund really hedges -- that is, it matches short positions with an equal value of long ones, a market-neutral strategy that translates into betting only on his picks of individual stocks.
"This came from the realization," said Mr. Chanos, whose office in the Citicorp Center in Midtown Manhattan has a seemingly unending view, "that the market headwinds had been, and were, so strong that it was masking the high positive returns of short-selling." In other words, the stock market's rise was fueled by such a powerful force that it was preventing many overpriced stocks from going down.
The new fund proved a salvation for Kynikos. It does not disclose results, but it is believed that Beta Hedge has returned about 17 percent a year since it was formed; its short-only cousin, Ursus Partners, has been flat.
Mr. Chanos, 42, takes no view about the likely direction of the market, but has not had much trouble these days finding unjustifiably inflated stocks. He defines inflated stocks as those whose prices reflect discrepancies between investor perceptions and economic reality.
Corporate earnings provide evidence. Most Internet companies have none at all, and at many profitable companies this decade, there has been a substantial decline in the quality of earnings. Increasingly, Mr. Chanos said, they are overstated because of the proliferation of stock options, the phenomenon of repeated "nonrecurring" charges and the passage of legislation protecting executives from lawsuits. This so-called safe-harbor law gives dishonest managements a chance to mislead investors with impunity, he said.
For all the opportunities to sell short, he must buck more than an unfavorable bullish trend. Tax treatment of short-sellers is unfavorable, it is often hard to borrow stocks to sell short and there is a rule against selling short on downticks. And there is the opprobrium of most of the investment world and the constant stream of upbeat Wall Street appraisal and company news.
His advice for ordinary investors is to avoid short-selling. A much better way to reduce risk, he said, would be to "sell down their longs."
 
James Grant
The spare, paneled conference room seems to tell a lot: the rolltop desk, the old Underwood typewriter, the portrait of the losing 1888 Democratic ticket of Grover Cleveland and Allan G. Thurman. And, yes, a large picture of William Holbrook Beard's painting, "The Bear Dance."
But James Grant, 53, the editor-entrepreneur whose office sits cater-cornered to the New York Stock Exchange, is neither a man of the 19th century nor a born pessimist. He has been wrong about the stock market for a decade, he said, because he is a contrarian. And being contrary in the 1990's meant playing Chicken Little while other people became rich.
"I am a skeptical person," said the 6-foot-5 Mr. Grant, a former columnist for Barron's, sometime TV commentator and proprietor of Grant's Financial Publishing. "I am forever doubting received wisdom. It's sometimes a profitable state of mind -- but often it's not." Mr. Grant, who once ordered up neckties depicting a bear wearing only a barrel, wryly calls himself "the world's leading authority on where the stock market is not going."
In the 1980's, Mr. Grant was a prominent worrier about the boom in corporate debt, the thinly financed run-up in real estate, the fragile balance sheets of banks and the bubble in Japan. He proved largely on target. But he went wrong in early 1991 as the allied countries were pushing Iraq out of Kuwait.
"That was my Waterloo," he said. The stock market took off, creating enough wealth to negate the debt problems. Unfortunately, Grant's kept on reading footnotes in corporate reports, he said, missing the forest for the trees.
With a certain regret -- though he says he is not sure he would have done much better as "another voice in the choir" -- Mr. Grant acknowledged that "we have monumentally missed it on the all-important matter of common stocks."
Grant's Interest Rate Observer, his main publication, has had some latter-day on-the-money calls, positive and negative. It was down, for example, on Coca-Cola, focusing on its accounting practices. Coke, which has had many setbacks, has indeed seen its stock languish. He was also on target in 1997, when he saw CMGI, a sort of supertechnology holding company then selling at about $12, as worth more than the sum of its parts. It now fetches more than $270.
According to a successful old Wall Streeter, he said, bears always sound smarter but their thinking can prove a trap. "The truly perceptive person, knowing that, knows when's the time not to doubt," Mr. Grant said.
Now, while a majority of American stocks have fallen from their highs -- and declining stocks have persistently outnumbered advancing ones -- Mr. Grant is not ready to return to Wall Street. He finds one of the best opportunities in Japan, the mirror image of the 1980's and "the beginnings of something terrific."
This time, he is backing his opinion with cash. He founded a hedge fund concentrating on the small-capitalization Japanese stocks that he thinks had sunk to bargain prices (and have risen lately).
"I happen to have been profoundly wrong, negative on this greatest of all bull markets," he said, referring to his misjudgment in the United States. "But I've resolved I'm not going to miss the next once-in-a-lifetime opportunity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: To have been so wrong on the market has been "humbling," said Leon Levy, but he is not about to change. (Gary Dunkin for The New York Times); "I am forever doubting received wisdom," said James Grant, proprietor of Grant's Financial Publishing. (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)(pg. 9); ("The Bulls and Bears in the Market," 1879, by William Holbrook Beard. Courtesy of the New-York Historical Society.)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Photos: "Still Bearish After All These Years"
MARC FABER -- Publisher, The Gloom, Boom & Doom Report. He says a reversal may come as early as January.
JAMES S. CHANOS -- President, Kynikos Associates. He says the market's strength is propping up many overpriced issues.
BARTON M. BIGGS -- Chairman, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management. He says stocks may be 50 percent overvalued.(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "The Bull Run"
Despite predictions that the market had to decline, it has been in an almost relentless expansion since March 1991.
 
Graph tracks change since Jan. 1990, plotted monthly for the Nasdaq, Dow Industrials, Russell 2000, S.& P. 500 since 1990.
 
Graph tracks Balance of trade, Jan. to Oct. each year, in billions since 1997.
 
Graph tracks monthly change in money supply since April 1999.
 
Graph tracks corporate profits in manufacturing since 1998
 
Graph tracks price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500 since 1985
 
Graph tracks running total of N.Y.S.E. stocks rising in price minus stocks falling in price since August 1999.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); SPEED LIMITS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; LEVY, LEON; FABER, MARC; BIGGS, BARTON M; CHANOS, JAMES S; GRANT, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



640 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Revitalized, For Work And Play

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
IN 1986, when Brady Wood came here as a teenager from New Orleans, he thought something was missing in the city -- like a soul. "This place was a great cultural void," he said. "Too clean, too much glass and steel."
No longer. Mr. Wood, now 32, says Dallas finally has "a place that's cool": the Deep Ellum neighborhood, just across the Central Expressway from downtown. And he had a hand in transforming it. 
 Once a jumble of half-abandoned industrial buildings and the site of the city's largest homeless encampment, Deep Ellum is now a magnet for young professionals, stylish stores and the city's growing Internet industry. It has a proliferation of retail businesses selling most everything from trendy furniture to tattoos, and dozens of places to eat, drink, dance and socialize. "This neighborhood," said Mr. Wood, who owns two nightspots and two restaurants in the district, "could be the next Melrose or SoHo."
There is more to the comparison than a developer's enthusiasm. The evolution of Deep Ellum into a thriving entertainment and creative business center reflects a broader national trend. Growing populations of single people, young couples without children and, more recently, empty nesters are recolonizing near-downtown districts in New York, San Francisco, Seattle, Chicago and other cities, and creative businesses like design studios, ad agencies and Internet start-ups are following them in.
Against this backdrop, Deep Ellum provides noteworthy evidence that the same dynamic is at work in a new category of cities, like Dallas, that did most of their growing after World War II and never before possessed neighborhoods that many people would call hip.
Characteristically, the emergence of Deep Ellum started with two ingredients: cheap rents and old buildings. In its first heyday in the 1930's, Deep Ellum was a center for African-American entertainment, but by the 1980's it had withered to a handful of restaurants and bars and little else. One of the rare parts of this thoroughly modern city untouched by large-scale redevelopment, Deep Ellum had blocks of old warehouses and factories ideal for conversion into artists' lofts.
When a few art galleries and nightclubs moved in, attracted by the cheap rents, real estate investors like Mr. Wood and Don G. Blanton saw possibilities. "I did a lot of traveling in the country, and Dallas didn't have anything like that for people," said Mr. Blanton, who now owns 35 buildings in Deep Ellum. "We had no Greenwich Village or anything like that."
It took nearly two decades for the vision to become reality, but the rewards have been great for the pioneer investors. Buildings that changed hands in the 1980's at $5 a square foot now attract offers in the range of $100 a square foot. Yet Mr. Blanton, a West Texas native who lives and works in Deep Ellum -- his spacious loft is a short walk from his office on Commerce Street -- thinks it is not yet time to sell. In fact, he is looking for more properties in the district.
He is not alone: corporate real estate interests are appearing on the scene. A major developer, Joseph G. Beard of Westdale Asset Management, plans to refurbish an old building at the western edge of Deep Ellum as part of a $90 million hotel-retail complex.
Mr. Beard, whose firm specializes in condominiums and apartment complexes, is impressed by the return of a residential population to the district. According to Barry Annino, 42, a longtime local real estate agent, the number of apartment and loft dwellers in Deep Ellum has risen to more than 2,000, from 200 a decade ago. And based on projects already announced, Mr. Beard estimated that the number would more than triple again in the next few years.
With the new residents has come a surge in interest from Internet businesses. In the past, Dallas's technology companies tended to cluster in suburbs like Richardson and Plano, but Deep Ellum is rapidly becoming a preferred home for dot-com concerns like Broadcast.com (now part of Yahoo), which announced a move into an 80,000-square-foot warehouse, with 700 new jobs.
Mr. Annino, a former tennis pro from Queens who came to Dallas in 1985, leased Broadcast.com its first 3,000-square-foot building here five years ago. Regarded as the unofficial mayor of the neighborhood, Mr. Annino sees Yahoo's decision to keep the company in Deep Ellum as validation of the district's emergence as a prime location for Internet businesses. Many smaller companies that have leased space there, he said, have told him that they were attracted by the new ambience of the district, in much the same way as their analogues have been drawn to TriBeCa in Manhattan.
"This location is perfect for a business like mine," said Brett Strauss, 33, the president of Third Stone, an eight-person Web design studio on Canton Street that counts Broadcast.com among its customers. "You have to be near the heart of things, near the talent pool. This is young industry and this is a young part of town."
In many eyes, one cloud hangs over Deep Ellum's future. Experience elsewhere teaches that a neighborhood that is newly fashionable is also newly vulnerable: Longtime residents like Brady Wood worry that the boom times that are following Deep Ellum's so-called discovery will wind up obliterating the character of the place that has made it so attractive.
In New York, SoHo first gained cachet as an artists' haven, but rising rents have driven many of the artists away even as galleries and restaurants have thrived. If not monitored carefully, Mr. Wood said, the same dynamic could play out in Deep Ellum, snuffing out the neighborhood's spontaneity as its one-of-a-kind shops are overwhelmed by national chains and as local bohemians are supplanted by well-turned-out young lawyers and stockbrokers.
"I love this neighborhood," he said over coffee at Cafe Brazil, a local late-night hangout. "It's a great place to work, and it keeps me in Dallas. But if it lost its character and became like everywhere else here, I'd have to go back to New Orleans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The area called Deep Ellum in Dallas has blocks of old warehouses and factories. Don G. Blanton, who lives in a spacious loft and works nearby, owns 35 buildings there. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times)
 
Map of Dallas shows location of Deep Ellum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS (TEX); UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITIES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); TRENDS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); EMPTY NESTERS (66%); STARTUPS (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL BRADY WOOD (68%); BARRY ANNINO (57%); DON G BLANTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



641 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Still Bullish, But Pulling In The Horns

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
AS Abby Joseph Cohen puts it, she has been "jumping up and down" since early in the decade, telling clients across the country that the stock market had plenty of room to grow, even when other strategists said the opposite was true.
Using conservative and well-researched earnings estimates and factoring in the economy's low-inflation environment, Ms. Cohen, the diva of this bull market, has argued in her measured way that the stock market's undervaluation was a reason to expect good returns from equities. 
 Well, she's not jumping up and down any more. In her 2000 forecast, Ms. Cohen, market strategist at Goldman Sachs, said the stock market is fairly valued. In an interview last week, she said the market has been fairly valued since March.
She is emphasizing this point now, she said, because "this is the first time we have spent any length of time at fair value in this bull run." Then she added: "We no longer think the market is cheap."
That is a big change. It means, she said, that price appreciation will move back to its historical trend, that is, high single-digit annual increases in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
That pace would be a lot slower than investors are used to. In 1999, for the fifth consecutive year, the S. & P. 500, as well as the market's two other marquee indexes -- the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite -- are heading for double-digit returns.
So why haven't alarm bells been ringing since she issued her report on Dec. 16? It is possible that many investors have ignored this warning because her market forecasts have always been understated. While she has been correct about the market -- and has not buckled during sharp downturns during 1997 and 1998 -- her forecasts for the gains in the S.& P. 500 and the Dow have been short of actual performance.
Ms. Cohen says she does that on purpose. "I am trying to come up with a forecast that is not on the extreme end of the bell curve," she said. "I want a forecast that we are comfortable with achieving."
Because of the understated nature of her forecasts, the themes she lays out each year assume added importance. And, until now, they have remained pretty constant.
She often reminds investors, for example, that market advances follow a staircase pattern -- spurts followed by trading ranges. That theme should be even more relevant in a market with slower growth. Her "Supertanker America" theme, which argues that global crises will not derail the United States economy, still holds true. The same goes for the "Silly Putty" theme, which has claimed for years that the profit and economic expansion will stretch much longer than anyone expects. The need for nimble stock-picking, another theme, is even more important in a market where 67 percent of the stocks on the New York Stock Exchange are 20 percent or more below their 52-week highs.
Now comes the first change in one of her major themes since she became a bull in early 1991. Ms. Cohen argued for years that the stock market could live with higher price-to-earnings ratios when inflation was low. Lower inflation, she has said, increases investor confidence in the growth of profits and makes them willing to pay more for a given level of earnings.
But now, she noted, inflation is beginning to rise modestly. That means "inflation is no longer going down and it is no longer something that gives us a significant margin for improvement in valuations," she said. That, she explained, is a reason for believing that the market will stay fairly valued.
None of this means that Ms. Cohen is pessimistic. The market, she says, will hit new highs in 2000, with operating earnings for the S.& P. 500 rising 8 percent. And the earnings will be more solid than the percentage increase implies because the second half of 2000 will have to be compared with a very strong second half of 1999.
As for Ms. Cohen's market forecast, which she says provides direction, not precision, she puts the S. & P. 500 at 1,525 and the Dow at 12,300 at the end of next year. Those are jumps of 4.6 percent and 7.8 percent, respectively, from the levels on Thursday.
Ms. Cohen is favoring financial stocks, including banks and insurance companies, in part because they fell so sharply this year that she thinks they are good values. "You are buying a financial services growth stock at a 40 percent discount to the market," she said. And technology stocks are still on her list, although she thinks the "valuations are not as appealing as they were."
THE biggest threat Ms. Cohen sees is the politics of a presidential election year, a factor that many strategists have not even mentioned in their musings about 2000. "Directional changes could be problematic," she wrote in her outlook analysis. "For example, federal budget policy has been moving toward restraint since 1992; proposals for excessive tax cuts or spending programs could be worrisome."
She dismisses the risk of a surge in inflation and says Year 2000 computer problems will be few. She does not think that economic recovery and stock-market rallies abroad will siphon off investors from the United States market. Indeed, Ms. Cohen said global growth would help the profits of American multinationals.
And she says the stock market will weather the rate increases that she and most other analysts expect the Federal Reserve to make early next year if the economic growth refuses to slow from the torrid 5 percent annual pace of the last six months. "This is something that will not come as a surprise," she said. "It is already a built-in presumption."
So the shock for investors, if Ms. Cohen is right about market valuations, is that normal returns next year will look puny compared with the last five, robust years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abby Joseph Cohen, the Goldman Sachs market strategist who has long been one of Wall Street's leading bulls, is looking toward more modest market gains next year. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Leading the Band"
Abby Joseph Cohen, chief market strategist at Goldman Sachs, tends to be conservative when forecasting earnings growth for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index.
 
S.& P. 500 Operating Earnings Growth
 
1997
Forecast: +10%
Actual: +9.9%
 
1998
Forecast: +8%
Actual: -2.1%
 
1999
Forecast: +5 to 7%
Actual: +11.5*
 
2000
Forecast: +8%
Actual: N.A.%
 
*Based on first three quarters and Goldman Sachs estimate for the fourth quarter.
(Source: Goldman Sachs & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ABBY JOSEPH ABBY JOSEPH COHEN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



642 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Even in the Best of Times, The Ultimate Consumer Fix

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
AMERICANS are clearly of two minds when it comes to shopping at the fin de millennium. Their appetite for luxury goods has never been greater. The big sellers this holiday season -- cashmere, diamond pendants and DVD players -- also speak to pampered sensibilities.
But even as Americans rush to snap up these fancy goods, they have not forgotten the joys of penny-pinching. 
 The steadiest, most substantial growth in the retail industry has come at the top discount chains. Wal-Mart, Target, Costco Warehouse and other stores now account for roughly a third of annual domestic retail sales, not including autos and restaurants, and that percentage is growing.
It may seem odd that Americans are searching for cut-rate prices at the height of the postwar era's longest economic boom. But as the discounters have moved from selling clearance polyesters and paper towels in bulk to offering brand names for less, they have positioned themselves to provide the ultimate psychic fix of a consumer culture: the bargain.
Getting blue jeans, stemware or hiking boots at, say, Target instead of Bloomingdale's is a "badge of honor," said Wendy Lieberman, president of WSL Strategic Retail, a retail consulting firm based in New York City. "It says, 'I am one smart shopper.' "
Discount stores have not always had such a lofty place in the expert shopper's universe. Loehmann's and Filene's Basement have long drawn bargain-hunters relentlessly stalking the deeply marked down designer clothing, hoping to pass it off as straight out of Saks or Bergdorf Goodman's. And just a decade ago Kmart was for many only for garden supplies, small appliances, work clothes and the like.
But during the recession of the early 1990's, trends shifted. Customers noticed that the discounters had remodeled their stores, stressed customer service and, most important, stocked less expensive versions of the apparel and housewares found in department and specialty stores. Kmart early on signed up Martha Stewart and her color-coordinated road show of paints, sheets and suburban panache. For its part, Target has trendy wool twin sets and toasters designed by the architect Michael Graves, Disney's favorite architect.
Now, according to the Shop 2000 study by WSR Retail, some 84 percent of Americans with incomes over $70,000 shop at mass merchandisers -- an increase of almost 50 percent from 10 years ago.
"The hallmark of shopping in the 21st century is that the woman who shops at Neiman Marcus in the morning will be browsing the halls of Target in the late afternoon," said Paco Underhill, author of "Why We Buy" (Simon & Schuster, 1999). "The social stratification is over."
Mr. Underhill, a self-styled psychologist of shopping, said discount shopping is viewed by many Americans as a kind of virtue. "It says, 'I am secure enough in who I am that I do not find it threatening to walk into Wal-Mart,' " he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (84%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); TRENDS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (57%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE MARTHA STEWART (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



643 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Forget the Millennium. Try to Predict One Week.

BYLINE: By JENNY LYN BADER 

 BODY:
SIX shopping days left until the century cusp, and the average shopper has stopped ordering bulk shipments of mineral water and started making lunch dates for January. Pundits who spent the fall debating portents of doom have begun making predictions about the next hundred years and the next thousand.
Awaiting the apocalypse couldn't have remained a national sport for long. After all, the whole fun of a national sport is rooting for some guy, no matter how messed up he is, and wondering whether he'll prevail against incredible odds. If the messiah showed up he would just prevail. What fun is that? 
 The final weeks of most centuries have been more nerve-wracking than the denouement of this one. The first time a century ended, members of a desert religious sect got themselves buried in Qumran with their graves facing north so they could greet the messiah when he resurrected them. He didn't show. In the 990's, Christian priests took the Vikings to be the biblical destroyers from Gog and Magog bringing the end of the world. Turned out they were just Vikings.
Today the world is still intact, despite gloomy predictions from the heavy hitters of prophecy. The mystic Edgar Cayce, who accurately predicted the stock market crash of 1929, predicted that the American coasts would flood in 1998. Jeane Dixon, the astrologer who foresaw John F. Kennedy's assassination, thought a world war would be fought in 1999.
Most notably the world was supposed to explode this past July, according to Nostradamus, who wrote cryptic prophetic verses in 1555 and usually hated to give a verifiable date. But he liked it when numbers came in threes, so in one of his rare specific moods he foretold the Great Fire of 1666: "The blood of the just will be required in London/burned by fire in thrice twenty and six." (CII, Q51). In another precise moment, he pinpointed this past July as a time of war and heaven-sent destruction: "In the year 1999 seven months,/From the sky will come a great King of Terror. . . Before and afterwards Mars rules happily." (CX, Q72) Interpreters of the verse have seen the King of Terror as a fusion weapon, a nuclear warhead, or a spaceship due to land around Independence Day. (Could he have been anticipating the movie?)
After July came and went, fans of eschatological prophecy calmed down a bit. But the big breakthrough came in September, the start of the academic year, with the arrival of next year's day planners, Filofaxes and art calendars in stationery stores. Ancient mystics did not have stationery stores and could remain riled up for longer. Contemporary mystics had to face facts. How could time both be ending and also be mapped out on so many glossy sheets of cardboard? Anticipating the end suddenly seemed not a sign of faith and imagination but just a good excuse to put off one's car payments.
But now that the mood has changed from predicting the end to predicting the future, the time frame seems too long-term. How can we think about the next century or the next millennium, when it's hard enough to tell what's going to happen this week?
Not to worry. A round-up of predictions for the coming week appears below. Unlike predictions for the year 3000, these can be verified. Just keep this newspaper around until next Sunday.
Faith Popcorn Founder, BrainReserve. Author of "Clicking" and "The Popcorn Report." Known for predicting the rise of home businesses, home shopping and organic foods, the rise of four-wheel drive, and the fall of New Coke.
"Y2K and New Year's Eve both will be a big bust. . . . Resort towns will be full.
"Major cities will not."
Dr. Edward Yardeni Chief global economist and investment strategist, Deutsche Bank Securities. Predicted the 90's bull market .
"My short-term forecast is that the Nasdaq will hit a new record high on December 30. That's it. It's the only short-term forecast that I think has any chance of being right."
Harry S. Dent, Jr. Author of "The Roaring 2000s Investor"(1999). Also predicted the bull market of the 90's, in his book "The Great Boom Ahead"(1992).
"We don't think Y2K is going to be a big problem. To be out of this market is suicide. I would not be surprised to see in the last week of December a short, minor pullback. If it did that, I'll buy."
Laurie Twilight Astrologer. Six months before, predicted an earthquake on the day one occurred in Turkey.
"I think there'll be some kind of good news on the 28th or the 29th because Mercury and Jupiter are going to be flowing beautifully, and that's an aspect of forgiveness. Either there could be some peace accord, or a great push on the individual level to have peace within people's lives, in their community and family."
Paul Rudnick Playwright and author. Has no major forecasting credential, but possesses an uncanny ability to anticipate moods.
"By the end of the week, both orange and pony skin will be so over, they will return. By the end of the week, Tom Brokaw will publish "Chicken Soup for the Greatest Generation." By the end of the week, that little Cuban boy will be awarded to Rosie O'Donnell."
John Deutsch Former director of the C.I.A. Predicted many major events, most of them classified.
"I don't think the world will see any major Y2K electronic meltdown because a lot of attention has been placed on reducing the risk. On the other hand I fear we'll see two or three terrorist incidents around the globe over the millennium weekend."
Sgt. Andrew McInnis New York Police Department.
Question: How many people will be in Times Square, where one million gathered last New Year's Eve?
"We're anticipating a larger number, just due to the fact that it's on the weekend and it's the millennium celebration."
Next question: What number do you expect? "We don't predict. It could snow and people could stay home."
Byron Wien Chief United States investment strategist, also of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Predicted in January 1999 that the Y2K worry would be a hoax.
"Here's a headline that you will see: Post Christmas returns will set a record, both in actual stores and on the Internet. Retailers will discover that the people giving gifts don't know what the recipients want, how big they are, what size they are, or what colors they like. People are so self-absorbed in this money society that they don't know anything about anybody else."
Ray Kurzweil Author of "The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence." Predicted the emergence of the World Wide Web and the 1998 taking of the world chess championship by a computer in his book "The Age of Intelligent Machines" (1990), written in 1988.
"I have developed a mathematical model (which I have called the law of accelerating returns) which describes the processes underlying the double exponential growth of certain technological capabilities, such as computer speed and price-performance; computer memory capacities; the speed, resolution, and bandwidth of brain scanning . . . The predictions I made during the 1980's, for the 1990's, turned out to be very accurate . . . But the methods I've developed don't apply to predicting short-term incidents.
"To make the kinds of predictions you're asking, either one would have (1) to be a soothsayer (which I don't claim to be), or (2) to be willing to make predictions that are likely to be wrong. There seem to be a lot of people in the second category, but I prefer to make predictions where I have a reasonable basis . . . I'm just not in the guessing game.
"Best,
"Ray
"P.S. I'm not flying on January 1, but I do have a flight scheduled on January 2!"
Jessica Avery Manager, Business Development, IBM. Correctly predicted the decline of CD-ROMs but says "everyone did." Has no weather forecasting credentials.
"The average temperature is going to be warmer than any other week between Christmas and New Year's thus far. In fact it's feeling kind of hot right now."
Mark Seltman Occult scientist. Known for hand analysis (palm-reading).
"On the third of January you'll wake up, brush your teeth, and go to work."
Gerald Celente Founder of the Trends Research Institute. Predicted the 1987 stock market crash and the demise of the Soviet Union.
"The young people are going to party much more intensely than the older folks. . . . In Europe the millennial celebrations are going to be much greater than in the U.S. . . . Times Square will have record numbers. Record numbers."
And who will win the Rose Bowl?
"I don't do sports or weather."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (David Sailors/The Stock Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-NINE MILLENNIUM (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); RELIGION (90%); TRENDS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (51%); 

PERSON: BADER, JENNY LYN JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



644 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: The World;
America Moves Apart From the U.N. on Iraq

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, the world was mesmerized by the spectacle of exploding rockets lighting the skies over Baghdad as American and British warplanes taught Saddam Hussein a lesson about defying United Nations arms inspections. A year later, it is clear that the fireworks were obscuring another reality: the final retreat of the Clinton administration from a policy of making the United Nations the focal point of policy on Iraq -- and, indeed, from making Iraq a focal point of policy.
Now fixed on the glittering prize of a broader Middle East peace among Israel and its neighbors, the administration has let Iraq slip into the middle distance, where it is likely to remain for the last year of the Clinton era unless President Saddam Hussein does something very foolish and provocative. 
 American policy, which once put so much focus on United Nations arms inspections to restrain Saddam Hussein's military ambitions, seems to now rely on more quietly keeping him hemmed in with sanctions, period. If his weapons programs get to a really dangerous point, new large-scale bombing is always an option anyway.
For many diplomats here, the most telling sign of Iraq's eclipse was the decision of Richard C. Holbrooke, the powerful new American representative at the United Nations, to give no priority to the issue here when he arrived in the fall, just as final negotiations on creating a new arms inspection system to monitor the Iraqis were reaching a crucial point. That system was adopted by the Security Council a week ago but is likely to take months to put into place -- if it can be put in place at all, given Iraq's immediate outrage at the very idea.
From the vantage point of the United Nations, the American policy on Iraq now seems to be on autopilot. A senior American official recently told a group of foreign policy experts that only a handful of people in the United States either knew or cared about the issue, an indication that the policy was hardly under active review.
For at least two years, the administration has been focused almost exclusively on two projects: first, continuing sanctions to try to weaken the Iraqi government and slow its quest for new weapons of mass destruction, and second, supporting the Iraqi opposition in exile, even though it is fragmented and few people take it seriously as an immediate threat to Mr. Hussein. Many experts say the only possibility of overthrow that Mr. Hussein really fears is a palace coup.
Thus the continuing standoff with Mr. Hussein. No arms inspections are likely soon, and therefore there is no end in sight for sanctions, which Mr. Hussein sees as a gross insult to Iraq's sovereignty, as is American enforcement of no-flight zones in the north and south, where Iraq fires on American planes and the planes keep bombing Iraq's air defenses.
Nine years after the gulf war, many nations have come to disagree with the United States that sanctions by themselves should be the bedrock of an Iraq policy. The Arabs, for example, have said the Americans long ago became cynical about inspections -- that they stopped wanting the inspections to work, because if Iraq ever passed the test it would lead to the liberation of Mr. Hussein from the box into which sanctions help keep him. The inspections also tied American policy to an activity carried out not by Americans, but by the United Nations.
"The fact that the sanctions regime has lost virtually all the support it once enjoyed around the world -- and that Saddam Hussein is still firmly in place -- seems to matter very little in Washington's thinking," said David Malone, a Canadian diplomat who is president of the International Peace Academy, a research organization with close ties to the diplomats at the United Nations.
Moreover, he said, "once it became clear that partners in the Security Council, particularly among the permanent five, were no longer willing to support sanctions, Washington had a choice to make between Security Council solidarity and sanctions" to support its goal of containing Iraq, said Mr. Malone.
WITH the decision in favor of sanctions, rather than any inspection regime the council could readily agree on, it became inevitable that the chief United Nations arms inspection official, Richard Butler, would soon feel a chill wind. Now, in the final days before his agency is disbanded, there is a palpable bitterness among its inspectors at having been sold out by Washington.
After the effective end of inspections a year ago, it took many months for the Security Council to decide what to do next. It is telling that when the new plan was drawn up, the United States left most of the work to others, stepping in only at critical points to make sure the Iraqis will have months of work to do before they can get to even a temporary suspension of sanctions.
If America's attitude toward working with the United Nations on Iraq has seemed ambivalent and opaque to other countries, so too has the attitude of Secretary General Kofi Annan seemed confusing to Americans and the United Nations' arms inspectors.
It has been almost two years since Mr. Annan went to Iraq to talk Mr. Hussein into a modicum of cooperation with the inspection agency, known as Unscom. The months that followed, in retrospect, can be seen as the moment when the United States began disengaging from the United Nations on Iraq.
Mr. Annan's mission led to sham diplomatic inspections of off-limits Iraqi palaces in the glare of publicity, while Unscom was prevented from doing any real work. But Washington was surprisingly uncritical. Then, after Iraq was bombed in December 1998, administration officials in Washington leaked reports of how the United States had long used Unscom and, by extension, the United Nations for spying on Iraq. Mr. Malone called these leaks "profoundly damaging" to Mr. Butler.
But in a recent interview, Mr. Butler said that much of the blame for what went wrong rested not in Washington but in the secretary general's office, where he found some staff members "deeply sympathetic" to Iraq. "They made it clear to me after a while that this actual pursuit of weapons was inadequately diplomatic," he said, still angry that Mr. Hussein, a documented liar in dealing with inspectors and a concealer of poison gas, germ warfare and a nuclear program, should get white-glove treatment from the United Nations.
There is a paradox here. In recent months Mr. Annan has become very outspoken and self-critical about the mistakes the United Nations makes when it tries to treat abusers of their own populations with the nonjudgmental neutrality accorded other heads of government. Some people are just evil, a recent report on the 1995 fall of Srebrenica and the subsequent massacre of its Muslim population recently concluded. Mr. Annan has been stung in Bosnia, Serbia and Rwanda -- and said so with extraordinary contrition. He has criticized Russian action in Chechnya and supported NATO in Kosovo.
But Iraq? By the evidence of United Nations Human Rights Commission monitors and human rights organizations, President Hussein rules with ruthless terror and is not squeamish about gassing his own population or using the suffering of civilians as a propaganda tool. Mr. Annan's entourage does not dwell on this.
Mr. Annan now has a huge challenge ahead of him. The Security Council has given him a month to choose a successor to Mr. Butler to head a new inspection commission. Signs of American interest are conspicuously absent. Although the strength or weakness of the choice will be important, American diplomats say the United States doesn't have a favored candidate in the race.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1998, before American planes bombed Iraq, an Iraqi soldier guarded the United Nations office in Baghdad. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); COUPS (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



645 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: High Society;
When You Got It, Flaunt It

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
"TO live on little, with contented mind," may be the classically proper attitude toward wealth, but "little" and "contented" aren't seen together very much these days. A more appropriate motto would be Oscar Wilde's "Nothing succeeds like excess."
Between the remarkable American economy, which has been growing for almost nine years, and the dot-com tsunami, which has not yet crested, the past decade has been a period of unprecedented wealth creation. Consider that in 1989 there were an estimated 1.9 million people in the country worth $1 million or more. Today that number has jumped to about 8 million. The number of American households worth $10 million or more has also quadrupled over the period, jumping to 275,000 from 65,000, said Edward N. Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University and an expert on wealth. 
 So much money is sloshing around that it seems to have overwhelmed the last vestiges of Puritan guilt over spending it. As the stock market and corporate profits rise, charities nationwide report that donations from both individuals and companies are falling. The very idea of wretched excess, of buying as vulgar and wealth as morally dangerous, has given way to a display-and-play ethos.
"They're all millionaires and billionaires by the time they're 30," said Leonard Ely, a 76-year-old Silicon Valley captain of industry turned philanthropist. Ask them for a chunk of their new-found wealth, he added, and "They'd say, 'Look, I don't have my Ferrari and my place in Tahoe, and you're telling me I should give money away?' "
The new attitude was on parade at the holiday party thrown by the society furrier Dennis Basso at the House of the Redeemer on East 95th Street off Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.
Two rows of black, chauffeured cars lined the block outside the candlelit Episcopal sanctuary, as guests nibbled caviar and ladies with newly sculpted faces worshiped, well, fur. Upstairs, Blaine and Robert Trump held court in the library of the former Vanderbilt mansion, while Kathy Hilton, wife of an heir to the hotel fortune, received rave reviews on her pink mink.
Despite Ms. Hilton's coup, sable is de rigueur among the pelt-wearing classes this year. "Darling, this was the year of sable," declared Mr. Basso. "They all had to have one." Downstairs, standing next to a cloakroom full of sable coats costing about $150,000 each, Joan Collins, the former diva on Dynasty, stood near several 30-something men in black-tie, who quietly questioned whether her high cheekbones were real. And Michele Herbert, a Park Avenue socialite, kissed Mr. Basso in gratitude for her $20,000 handbeaded Russian broadtail suit.
Even Locust Valley, N.Y., the capital of lockjaw and faded chintz, has lost its bearings. The parking lot of the Piping Rock Club, once filled with members' 10-year-old "beater" paneled station wagons, now fills up with 3-year-old BMW's instead (and the children own Porsches).
Is it a new Gilded Age, with many thousands of robber barons, instead of just a few dozen?
"There are striking parallels," said Jean Strouse, the author of "Morgan: American Financier" (Random House, 1999), who spent 15 years writing and researching the biography of J. P. Morgan (1837-1913). "The Internet is very parallel to the building of the railroads, the telegraph system, the transatlantic cable. People were buying and building yachts. Enormous floating palaces. Elaborate houses in Newport. It was an unbelievably lavish time."
It's an unbelievably lavish time now. " People seem to be shopping at two in the morning, three in the morning. That's when they buy the expensive items," said James A. Finkelstein, the founder of Luxuryfinder.com, an online merchant.
"We sold out of pashmina blankets at $995 apiece," he said. "We sold out of pashmina pillows for $335. We sold a lot of caviar. A lot, a lot of caviar." The caviar costs $1,150 per 500 grams, but it comes with beautiful mother-of-pearl caviar spoons.
One couple flies their palm trees from Southampton to Palm Beach in the winter ( to keep the trees warm). They also told their decorator to put down black and white floor tiles to match the coats of their terriers.
Anastasia Soare, the owner of Anastasia's salon in Beverly Hills, has grown accustomed to emergency calls from clients just in from Europe who must have their eyebrows done at once.
"She was desperate," said Ms. Soare of one midnight call. In response, Ms. Soare, whose shop also perfects the eyebrows of Naomi Campbell, Jennifer Lopez, Lara Flynn Boyle and Kate Capshaw, packed up tools in her own home in Benedict Canyon and drove across town to her client's home. There, she performed an emergency pluck, cut and wax. Charge: $400 to $3,000 (the latter price for flying cross country) for as little as a five-minute session.
Others fly their linens to Paris to be dry-cleaned. "It's well worth it," said one women at a Park Avenue cocktail party, as she tossed her purple pashmina shawl around her shoulders. It better be, since the tab in some homes runs to $6,000-a-month.
It's exhausting, all this spending. Ms. Herbert, who is married to the chairman of Pantone, a company specializing in color graphics, talked about how hectic it is to keep up with everything. "Let me put it this way, it would be easier if I had a job!" she said.
To help them keep up, the rich are hiring helpers, and even helpers for their helpers. Mark Simone, a 44-year-old bachelor who lives between New York and Greenwich, Ct., flipped through his black book the other day and recited how many women he knows who have multiple social secretaries.
"I don't think you know how common it is for these women who do nothing, to have two secretaries," Mr. Simone said. "I can think of 20 who have two." He equated it to having a cat. "When you're not home all day, you need to get another one to keep the first one company."
In the Hamptons, the magic number for summer help was four: A houseman (to change the light bulbs and make sure there's Diet Coke on ice), a laundress, a chef and a housekeeper.
Children are equally the beneficiaries of excess. It's there to be seen on any rainy day outside Nightingale-Bamford, an all-girls private school on the Upper East Side. Ten-year-olds stand in front, calling their very own town cars on their very own cellular phones. An entire seventh grade class at another New York private school flew to Barbados for a birthday weekend. And a doting father recently paid $17,000 to rent the F.A.O. Schwarz flagship toy store on Fifth Avenue for his 12-year-old daughter's birthday slumber party.
At 3 a.m. one 12-year-old turned to another, both dressed in flannel feetsy pajamas, and said "We'll be in business together." Her friend said, "We'll be Greenberg and Leff." And they would make lots of money because the first girl knew all the "lawyer words." She recited: "Malpractice, liability."
"Malpractice, liability," repeated her friend.
One young woman, who spent 13 years in the New York private school system and is a freshman at Cornell University, pointed out the importance of the status of such things. "Cell phones, town cars, country houses, and kids whose parents who have really cool jobs have no problem making friends," she said.
She said that vacations were really important, too. "If you go to Florida for vacation you're not going away," the girl said. Why? "On a vacation you have to see clear water; in Florida, the water is murky."
So, the rich at least, have got what they wished for. Which is exactly what the gods are supposed to give us -- before they drive us mad.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pampered paws, among the signs of these very rich times. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 
Chart
How much does it take to live properly? Several society doyennes provided the following firgures. Prices are per month for Manhattan, Southampton and Palm Beach and exclude the costs of buying and maintaining homes, vacations, tuition, jewelry, clothing, gifts and entertainment.
 
Houseman -- $6,250
Jet on call (per month during Palm Beach season) -- $80,000
Dry cleaning -- $3,000
Landscaping upkeep for gardens and New York terrace -- $20,000
Driver -- $5,400
Social secretary -- $6,000
Fresh flowers -- $2,000
Dog care -- $1,000
(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TRENDS (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); MEN (68%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P ANASTASIA SOARE (64%); DENNIS BASSO (61%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



646 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Look What's Hot A Hundred Years From Now

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL 

 BODY:
"LIFE is short," Hippocrates once said. "Art is long."
Not until the end of World War II, with Europe and Asia physically and economically in ruins, did the importance of preserving antiquity, natural history and culture attract greater attention in the United States. Today, the United States is home to 15,000 museums. About 2.3 million people visit an American museum on an average day. 
 The Week in Review asked a sampling of museum directors and curators to pick one item from their own institution's private collection that they believed would have even greater importance at the end of the next century.
Choosing among thousands of items -- tens of thousands in some cases -- was challenging. As a result, a few second choices deserve honorable mention. Dr. Robert M. Batscha, president of the Museum of Television and Radio, said his runner-up was Sesame Street, "because it was the first time television was used as a teaching tool.The viewer was active, not passive and this technique was copied by other learning shows."
Second to cancer research, Dr. Adrianne Noe, director of the National Museum of Health and Medicine, chose "the invention the Band-Aid, which was developed this century, and was the beginning of home care." She added, "It will not be used through out the next century, we are already using spray-on antiseptics." Such products, she said, were "second skins, that will the replace the Band-Aid."
Only one museum official, Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, declined to single out an object. He said that to pick one piece out of the museum's collection would be like choosing one child over another.
Museums are guardians of civilization. One piece in a collection is an image of time, giving viewers a chance to understand and reflect upon history, and ultimately to influence future discoveries.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Summer Days (1936), Georgia O'Keeffe Gift of Calvin Klein -- This work preeminently embodies an American sensibility and mood. Its constituent elements and the straightforward style in which it articulates metaphysical questions about the cycle and meaning of life mark it as singularly American. The work presents a distinctly American vision of nature as timeless, indomitable, and momumental; as a concrete aspect of existance whose timeless grandeur transcends the patterns, problems and vicissitudes of daily life. --Barbara Haskell, curator, Whitney American Museum of Art, New York. (c.1999 The Georgia O'Keeffe Foundation/ARS, New York); Chicken Carcinoma (1909) -- On October 1, 1909, Dr. Peyton Rous removed a tumor from an English hen and injected a cell-free filtrate from the tumor into another healthy chicken, which later developed this tumor. Although the concept of the virus was still in its infancy, this was the first experiment to demonstrate that cancer could be caused by a viral infection. Dr. Rous's conclusions were initially met with considerable skepticism, but research on viral origins of cancer became central to cancer research by the 1950's. Dr. Rous was awarded the 1966 Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine for his research. -- Dr. Adrianne Noe, director, National Museum of Health and Medicine, Washington. D.C. (National Museum of Health and Medicine, AFIP); Chrysler's Turbine-powered Car (1954) -- Chrysler developed 50 turbine-powered cars as test models, costing $50,000 apiece. This is the only operational turbine car on public display. Its versatile engine runs on diesel fuel, kerosene, unleaded gas, Jp-4 jet fuel, or any mixture of the four. By the late 60's Chysler engineers were reassigned to other programs relating to new emissions standards for conventional engines. However, the turbine-powereed car will continue to be significant in the future as we explore alternative sources of energy. --Jim Worton, director, Museum of Transportation, St. Louis. (Museum of Transportation); The Yellow Kid (1895) -- The first comic strip created in America on May 5, 1895, Hogan's Alley by Richard Outcault featured the popular comic strip character, The Yellow Kid, and appeared in Joseph Pulitzer's New York World. Each phase of our country's history has been, and still is, captured by our cartoonists, providing a cultural treasure of society's foibles never covered by traditional history books. -- Stephen Charla, curator, International Museum of Cartoon Art, Boca Raton. (International Cartoon Museum of Art); San Ildelfonso Pueblo, Black-on-Black Pottery Plate (c. 1930) Maria and Julian Martinez -- This plate epitomizes the continuing vitality and adaptation of Native peoples. As gifted visionary artists, Maria and Julian Martinez invented this style of pottery and, through its unique melding of ancient and contemporary cultures, helped transform their small struggling pueblo into one that honors its past while participating in modern society. --W. Richard West (Southern Cheyenne), director, Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian. (National Museum of The American Indian); New World Palms -- The Palms of the Americas gallery, and the great collection of New World Palms living here, stand as symbols of the vital role of plants in all life on Earth. Together they remind us of how essential the study and protection of plants will be to the future of the planet. --Gregory Long, president, The New York Botanical Garden, Bronx. (Tori Butt/The New York Botanical Garden); Man Walking on Moon (1969) -- Man walking on the moon is the first time that the world could universally witness the same event, live on television. This was the turning point; today it is rare when a major event is not broadcasted live. --Dr. Robert M. Batscha, president, The Museum of Television and Radio, New York. (The Museum of Television and Radio); Burgess Shale Fauna (discovered, 1908) -- The Burgess Shale fauna provide a startling view of creatures who roamed the Earth more than a half billion years ago. Their preservation is vital to future generations' understanding of the origins of life on Earth. --Robert Fri, director, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington D.C. (The National Museum of Natural History); Donna Karan Dress (1994) Fabric, Neoprene Gift of Donna Karan, Inc. -- The development of synthetics set in motion a major change in the composition of many, if not most, products. Certainly in the fashion industry, synthetic fabrics have provided the means to create styles that offer the greater movement and the versatility that characterize modern life. --Dorothy Twining Globus, director, The Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology, New York. (Irving Solero/FIT); Wright Flyer (1903) -- It was this airplane that proved that powered, controlled flight was possible when the Wright brothers flew it on Dec. 17, 1903. --Donald S. Lopez, acting director, National Air and Space Museum, Washington, D.C. (National Air and Space Museum); Flag (1954-55) Jasper Johns Gift of Philip Johnson in honor of Alfred H.Barr, Jr. -- Johns's Flag is a Janus-headed object that will stand as a pivot point in the century's art. It fuses two traditions previously thought to be irreconcilable: the emotionally invested handling of paint that grew out of Cezanne, and the deadpan cerebral affront that came from Dada's irony. The Flag's legacy is equally bifurcated, leading to some of the most resolutely abstract art of the last half century, and to the most socially engaged figuration. --Kirk Varnedoe, chief curator, department of painting and sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, New York. (The Museum of Modern Art); Millikan Oil Drop Experiment (1910-1913) -- The drop experiment determined that electrons were fundamental particles that had a definable charge. This apparatus suspended tiny droplets of oil in mid-air between two electrically charged plates. By changing the charge on the plates he could suspend the droplet, thus determining the amount of charge on the droplet. This experiment demonstrates one of the basics of physics confirmed. --Michael Sarna, curator, Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago. (Dirk Fletcher/The Museum of Science and Industry); Thomas Jefferson's Rough Draught of the Declaration of Independence (1776) -- This stirring call to action, edited first by John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and then by the Continental Congress, chronicles the invention of the United States and its first struggle to reach consensus. It remains a vibrant symbol of the creativity of our political process, now the world's oldest and most successful experiment in self-correcting government, and will continue to seed the world's growing belief in human rights. -- James H. Billington, librarian of Congress, U.S. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Library of Congress); Here Look at Mine (1980), John Robinson -- This intimate portrait of John Robinson's grandchildren, all engaged in art projects, at the dining table, not only captures their essence but also provides a glimpse into family life. A work like this has value because it focuses upon the most basic element of our civic society, the family, it reconnnects us with our sense of who we are and what those who love us hope we will be. --Steven C. Newsom, director, Anacostia Museum, Washington. (Anacostia Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); EARTH (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (84%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); ANACOSTIA MUSEUM (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (84%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); EARTH (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; MUSEUMS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY-NINE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (67%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (67%); CANCER (52%); 

PERSON: HASKELL, KARI E

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



647 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Waiting for Assad

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Sometimes you're reading along and a fact just jumps off the page at you. Like this one, for instance: Syria's economy, its G.N.P., is one-seventh the size of Israel's. That means Syria, with 16.5 million people, produces about 15 percent of what the Israeli economy produces with 5.5 million people.
I toss this out not to embarrass the Syrians. The Syrians actually have a talented merchant class, which, if unleashed, would quickly transform the Syrian economy. I toss it out to underscore the tremendous imbalance of power that exists today between Israel and Syria -- militarily, economically and technologically. 
 This imbalance of power is an important backdrop to the current Syrian-Israeli peace talks. Put simply, Israel, the vastly more developed and powerful country, is being asked to relinquish a strategic asset, the Golan Heights, to a weaker Syria, in return for security guarantees and a still-to-be-determined Syrian normalization with Israel.
What's interesting is that despite their power advantage Israelis aren't just saying: "Who needs this deal?" Instead, a slim majority of Israelis are leaning toward it, because they believe it has the potential to actually enhance Israel's strength -- by extracting Israel from its bloody quagmire in south Lebanon, by turning Syria into a buffer between Israel and Iran instead of a bridgehead through which Iran bleeds Israel, by transforming Syria from the vanguard of the Arab ideological struggle against Israel to a member of the circle of peace around Israel and by enabling Israelis to drive directly across Syria to Europe.
But while a majority of Israelis are leaning in favor, they're not there yet, because they still need to be convinced by President Hafez al-Assad of Syria not only that such benefits actually accrue to Israel if it relinquishes the Golan, but also that they will be grounded in a wholly different Syrian approach to Israel. If a Golan deal is to have a solid majority in Israel, and if it is to win the support of the American Congress, which will be asked to help pay for it, Mr. Assad is going to have to undertake his own initiative of reconciliation that says to Israelis this really is a new day -- and it's not just going to be one day, the day Israel relinquishes the Golan.
With the parties resuming negotiations in Washington on Jan. 3, Mr. Assad needs to move. If each act of reconciliation toward Israel that he makes has to be squeezed out of him, if there is no sense that each comes out of a real willingness to change the relationship between the Syrian people and Israel, there will be no impact. When things are squeezed out of you, you may feel as if you are giving, but the other person will not feel as if he is getting.
Anwar el-Sadat's genius was that he not only gave to Israelis the reconciliation they most craved without being squeezed to do so, he did it before talks even began. Also, by both his actions and his words, Mr. Sadat made Israelis believe that it was a new day -- that there was no going back for him so therefore there could be no turning away by Israelis. Mr. Assad has done neither yet. Why is Mr. Assad negotiating with Israel now? What is new for him? He has never explained.
There is going to be an Israeli referendum on this deal, so the Israeli public will be deciding. Only Mr. Assad can tip the balance firmly in favor, and he can do that best by opening the way, right now, to contacts between Israelis and Syrians, who want peace and an opening of Syria to the world every bit as much as Israelis. To his credit, Mr. Assad allowed a reporter from Israel's largest newspaper, Yediot, to visit Damascus last week, and the reporter's story in Friday's paper, including a picture of Syrian soldiers embracing him and his conversations with Syrian students and businessmen, was the buzz of Israel.
"The more Israelis can feel the Syrian response in the streets, the more they will be convinced that this isn't just a deal with a dictator," said the Israeli political theorist Yaron Ezrahi. "Assad doesn't have to democratize Syria today, but he has to democratize the peace, and he has to do it in a way that Israelis see comes from his initiative, not something being squeezed out of him."
Mr. Assad has already started conditioning the Syrian public with the new posters being plastered around Damascus: "We fought with honor. We will negotiate with honor. We will make peace with honor." That's a good start. Now he has to condition the Israelis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); SYRIA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL (99%); SYRIA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



648 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: FUNDS WATCH;
At Closed-End Muni Funds, Insiders Are Often Buyers

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Managers and employees at closed-end municipal bond funds are apparently seeing bargains close to home -- shares of their own funds.
According to the Washington Service, which follows transactions reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission, managers of closed-end muni funds have bought about 75,000 shares in the last two months, 16 times as many as they sold. 
 The purchases come as closed-end municipal funds wrap up a brutal year -- with losses averaging about 17 percent at the 106 national closed-end muni funds tracked by Bloomberg as of Monday. Those losses have prompted many investors to sell their shares; as a result, many funds' discounts to their net asset value are their widest in five years.
"This is a cheap asset class," said Tom Fetter, who oversees about $7.5 billion as head of munis for Eaton Vance Management in Boston. "It's an attractive alternative to an overvalued stock market." He paid $84,211 for 7,200 shares in the Eaton Vance Municipal Income Trust over the last three months, according to the Washington Service.
Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares, which may trade at a premium or discount to their net asset values. While the net asset values of many funds have dropped because of rising interest rates, share prices have fallen even more. Other buyers, according to the service, were Vincent Giordano, head of tax-exempt closed-end funds at Merrill Lynch, who bought shares in its MuniHoldings Fund and MuniHoldings Fund II; Steve Krupa, a portfolio manager at John Nuveen & Company, who bought shares of Nuveen Insured Municipal Opportunity; Richard Moynihan, head of munis at the Dreyfus Corporation, who bought shares of Dreyfus Municipal Income, and Paul Disdier, a Dreyfus fund manager who bought shares in Dreyfus Strategic Municipal Bond.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); DREYFUS CORP (81%); EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BOND FUNDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



649 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Americans' Secret Deal Shows a Trap for Russia's Transition

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

 BODY:
A few years ago, when an American company was seeking a toehold in the newly privatized and potentially lucrative Russian telecommunications market, it cut a secret deal with directors and officers at the Moscow telephone company.
As part of the arrangement, which has raised legal and ethical questions and thrown a light on how some Western businessmen have operated in Russia, the American company, Global Telesystems, paid at least $65 million in stock and cash. Global paid the money to a company the insiders had set up in the Bahamas to avoid public scrutiny and taxes. 
 In exchange, Global Telesystems ended up with ownership of a Russian telecommunications company that generates millions of dollars a year in revenues by providing service to 150,000 Moscow customers, most of them businesses willing to pay a premium. The eight Russians who took part in the deal each walked away with about $9 million in cash and stock, tax free.
The Russian government says the phone company insiders committed fraud and tax evasion, and has opened an investigation, as have law enforcement agencies in countries where the insiders stashed their gains. Global Telesystems, a fast-growing company based in McLean, Va., says the transaction broke no Russian or American laws.
The Global Telesystems deal illustrates how Western business maneuvers may sometimes undermine Western governments' efforts to promote Russia's economic transformation.
Western business and political leaders have lectured Russians over and over, saying that if they want to attract foreign investment, they must adopt laws to protect shareholders' rights and improve tax collection. But the Global Telesystems deal resulted in the Moscow phone company's being defrauded of more than $200 million, based on the value of the phone lines and projected revenues, according to the Russian Ministry of Interior and Western investigators.
Other shareholders in the company, Moscow City Telephone Network, include the Russian government and a handful of investors in the United States, where its stock is also traded.
In America, the insiders' dealings would provoke shareholder lawsuits, corporate and securities law experts say. That is unlikely in Russia.
"Even if this was not illegal, the question is, was it ethical and smart?" said Jonathan Winer, who monitored money laundering and other international activities as a deputy assistant secretary of state before stepping down recently.
An American investment banker in Moscow described the Global deal as "only the tip of the iceberg," just one example of how Western companies have engaged in business practices in Russia that they would not try at home. Most of the cases, he and other executives said, remain carefully guarded corporate secrets.
Details on the arrangement between Global Telesystems and the phone company insiders emerge from documents filed by Global Telesystems with the Securities and Exchange Commission and information on the company insiders gathered by law enforcement officials in the United States, Russia and Europe.
Global Telesystems was well positioned for opportunities offered by the new Russia, such as the 1994 privatization of Moscow City Telephone. The American company had worked in the old Communist Soviet Union in the early 1980's, when the company was based in California and called San Francisco/Moscow Teleport.
It changed its name to Global Telesystems in 1995, and issued stock publicly two years later, with a $200 million initial offering.
Two months ago, Global Telesystems put its Russian and other Eastern European operations into a subsidiary, Golden Telecom, sold off 34 percent in an initial public offering and raised $144 million more.
One of Global's biggest backers, from its early days, has been George Soros, the international financier who has been active, commercially and philanthropically, in the former Soviet Union. Two years ago, Mr. Soros and his affiliate companies owned 26 percent of Global Telesystems, according to a company filing with the S.E.C., though he never played any management role at the company. His stake in the company is now about 7.7 percent, a spokesman for Mr. Soros said. It is still one of the larger stakes in the company after some institutional holders like Fidelity and Putnam Investments.
The spokesman said that Mr. Soros had not been aware of the deal between Global Telesystems and the Moscow City Telephone insiders until asked about it by The New York Times.
The insiders and Global Telesystems used three companies to carry out their deal, which made it more difficult for government officials to trace. They were Invest-Project, registered in Russia, GTS-Vox, registered in Britain, and Swinton Ltd., which was registered in the Bahamas, a haven for corporate secrecy and tax avoidance.
Investigators said there were eight shareholders of Invest-Project and Swinton. They included five top executives and directors of the Moscow telephone company -- the general director, Vladimir Lagutin, and four deputy directors, Said Alimbekov, Viktor Panov, Semyon Rabovsky and Sabiryan Shambazov.
None of these individuals nor Moscow City Telephone responded to requests for comment, including a fax with detailed questions. Swinton's American lawyer, Jacob Laufer of Manhattan, would not disclose the names of the Swinton shareholders. "The principals value their privacy," he said. He would not say what business Swinton was engaged in, but said it was "lawful and proper."
Similarly, the general counsel for Global Telesystems, Grier Raclin, said in a written statement that the transaction between his company and the phone company insiders "was totally aboveboard, legitimate and consistent with the laws and business practices in Moscow."
The first step in the deal was for Moscow City Telephone to award the insiders' company, Invest-Project, the contract to provide telephone connections for 150,000 Moscow customers. Exactly how much the insiders paid has not been made public, but investigators and one person familiar with the deal estimate that it was about $8 million.
Five days earlier, the insiders and Global Telesystems had already agreed to sell 95 percent of Invest-Project to GTS-Vox. Since Swinton wholly owned GTS-Vox, this meant they were merely transferring ownership from a company registered in Russia to one whose owners were hidden behind Bahamian secrecy.
The next step was for Swinton to sell 53 percent of GTS-Vox to Global Telesystems. For that, Global Telesystems paid with stock worth about $26 million. This translates into $3.25 million in stock for each of the Russian phone company executives.
Putting in telephone lines increased the profit because most of the lines went to businesses willing to pay a premium, as much as $500 for a connection, in addition to monthly service charges.
Revenues of Telecommunications of Moscow -- the new name for Invest-Project -- grew from nothing in 1995 to $16.5 million in 1996, $29 million in 1997 and $21.5 million for the first six months of 1998, according to Global's S.E.C. filings.
From those revenues, the insiders and Global Telesystems paid themselves more than $7 million in dividends.
The final bonanza came last year when Global Telesystems bought Swinton's remaining interest in Telecommunications of Moscow for $40 million in cash. That produced a windfall of about $5 million for each of the phone company insiders and brought their total receipts on the deal to nearly $9 million each.
But when the insiders started moving their money around the world, they attracted unwanted scrutiny.
Swinton and each shareholder had an account at BankBoston. In September 1998, Global Telesystems paid $7.4 million into the Swinton account. Then Swinton quickly moved $895,000 into each insider's account, said a senior law enforcement official and another individual familiar with Swinton's financial activities.
The movement of so much money set off alarm bells at the bank, and it alerted federal authorities. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Customs Service opened an investigation, and in November 1998, a federal judge in Boston ordered the accounts frozen. The bank would not comment.
But early this year, the United States attorney in Boston, Donald Stern, decided not to prosecute, said lawyers for the companies. Federal investigators, who thought they had a case of possible money laundering, were dismayed. "The case was not aggressively pursued," said one senior law enforcement official. An investigator from another federal agency said the case had been "prematurely closed."
Through a spokesman, Mr. Stern declined to answer any questions about the matter.
Attorneys for Swinton and Global said the case was closed, but the court record remains sealed. The New York Times filed a motion last month to have it opened, contending that keeping the record from the public violated the First Amendment. A hearing is scheduled for January.
After the Boston accounts were unfrozen early this year, the insiders quickly moved their money abroad, this time to Denmark, according to law enforcement officials in Europe.
Acting on evidence provided by the Russians, the Danes promptly seized the accounts, on the theory that the money had been fraudulently obtained, according to American and European officials.
Proceeds from the deal were also sent to Israel and Switzerland, and authorities there are still investigating, officials said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MGTS (RTS) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL TELESYSTEMS GROUP; MOSCOW CITY TELEPHONE NETWORK MOSCOW CITY TELEPHONE NETWORK OAO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL TELESYSTEMS GROUP; MOSCOW CITY TELEPHONE NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ETHICS; TAX EVASION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ETHICS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); LITIGATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND GEORGE SOROS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



650 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Spain Rudely Awakened to Workaday World

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
With Spain under pressure to conform to the shorter lunch break habits in most of the 14 other countries in the European Union, its traditional workday -- with its three-hour siesta break to eat and sleep -- is disappearing.
Increasingly, large companies are cutting lunch to two hours and corporate culture is turning against the concept of nodding off during the day, seeing it as a sign of laziness.
Jose Luis Carranza Ortiz, the director of human resources for one of Spain's largest banks, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, is clear on the subject. 
 "Those who can take siestas do," he said. "But those who are really serious about working do not."
Of course, not all Spaniards agree. Some openly rail at this sort of thinking. Others have become closet nappers, sometimes retreating to their cars or into nearby health clubs for a quick snooze. Mr. Carranza had no sooner disappeared down the hall to his next meeting when another bank official confided that he still slipped home every day for a 30-minute rest.
"It's very healthy," he said. "You feel much better." But please, he begged, he could not be identified.
The siesta question is a big issue here because abandoning the midday snooze amounts to a radical change in a traditional way of life. When the European Union tried in the early 1990's to get the Spanish to take the tilde -- the squiggle over the letter n -- from their keyboards to conform with the single market enshrined in the Treaty of Rome, howls of protest went up. The European Union eventually backed down.
Feelings about the siesta can run just as deep. The mayor of Plasencia, a town in the western province of Caceres, was so concerned about the growing noise during the lunch hour that he issued an order calling for silence between 3 and 5 p.m.
Studies suggesting that naps are healthy are routinely trumpeted in Spanish papers, proof that the rest of the world is finally coming around to something that Spaniards long ago discovered. Last summer, the national daily El Mundo devoted 10 pages to the subject. It said that siestas in America were called "power naps" and it cited Levi Strauss, Ben & Jerry's, and Mac World Magazine as some of the companies trying out "nap lounges."
The headline read, "It's proven -- the siesta is beneficial, and if in the United States they are starting to discover it, here it continues to be part of the national heritage."
But even its proponents say the siesta is under attack on many fronts. The economy is on the upswing, with more new jobs created here this year than in any other country in the 15-nation European Union -- 400,000.
This has increased traffic in the cities and allowed young people to move to the suburbs. More and more Spaniards are facing long commutes, and increasingly women are joining the work force although the unemployment rate for women remains at 22 percent, twice that for men.
Still, all this means that popping home is getting harder. And since couples are both working, no one is there cooking the hot meal that usually preceded the siesta.
The siesta has pretty much vanished from the cities of Latin America, though some rural areas carry on, especially in the most tropical climes. Last April it came to an abrupt halt in Mexico City when President Ernesto Zedillo imposed a new schedule that required officials to be at their desks from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m. That has quickened a lengthy erosion in the siesta there.
A Spanish mattress company, Pikolin, which recently did a survey on the subject, found that only 25 percent of Spaniards surveyed still take a siesta and, unlike 50 years ago, few actually get into bed anymore.
"The siesta is nothing more than a cliche for most working people in Spain," said Juan Ignacio Perez-Nievas, the company's marketing director. "They do not have time for it."
The survey indicated that the siesta is most popular among the older generation and rarest for young people, particularly in the most northern regions of Spain, where the weather is coolest.
Yet many young people mourn the loss of the afternoon nap, which they say gave a certain pace to the day and intimacy to their parents' relationship.
Roberto Suarez Santos, for instance, director of the labor relations department of the powerful Spanish Employers' Organization, said a siesta was out of the question for him.
Mr. Suarez, 31, said he is really expected to have lunch with his colleagues, talk about work and then get back to the office quickly. He looks on the siesta, however, as something that enhanced his parents' lives.
"They had this time to go back home and talk to each other," Mr. Suarez said. "They had two or three hours together in the middle of the day to discuss what was going on in their lives. It gave a coherence to the family. Now it seems there is less and less time to talk. There is time at the end of the day, but somehow it is perhaps not the right time."
In fact, the workday in Spain is a bit chaotic these days. Big department stores are open throughout the afternoon lunch break now and remain open way into the evening, usually until 8:30 p.m. But most small stores continue to close from 2 to 5 p.m. Almost everybody knows someone who still has a three-hour lunch, someone who has two hours and someone who is working an eight-hour shift.
Union officials say that new collective bargaining agreements are increasingly calling for continuous shifts, and many union officials say they are glad about it. Otherwise, they say, Spaniards tend to have a very long day.
"Some of our people are up at 6 a.m. to get to work and then they don't get home from work until about 9 p.m.," said Antonio Ferrer, the secretary of the General Workers' Union, which has nearly one million members. "Where else in the world do you have a workday like that?"
But many of those who still have the traditional Spanish day like it that way. In the historic district of Madrid, Florencio Cordoba, 46, closes his famous cape shop, Sesenin, at 2 p.m. and goes home for three hours, where he changes into his pajamas, eats his lunch and usually sleeps on the couch with the television on.
Back to work at 5 p.m., he closes at 8:30 p.m. He considers the siesta not only healthy, but a Spanish custom that should never be abandoned.
Still, he sees the changes coming even in his own household. His oldest daughter now works a continuous day, getting home at 6 p.m. "She is always complaining she is tired," Mr. Cordoba said.
And these days his wife has begun talking about going to work. But he hopes she will not. "I know that if she was not at home everything would change," he said. "We do not have two fancy cars, but we have been happy."
Some die-hard nappers have just found creative ways of getting a little nap in on a shortened lunch break.
A chain called "Masajes a 1000" -- which offers busy Spaniards a sort of McDonald's version of a siesta -- has opened 21 franchises since 1997.
At one of its newly opened health spas in downtown Madrid, the lights were dim and all was quiet as four customers napped in ergonomically correct chairs, wrapped in plaid blankets. Each had paid $6 for a five-minute massage and a chance to take a half-hour snooze.
The occupant of one chair was Sara Ibanez, a 35-year-old biologist. She happily leaned her head forward on the padded cushion and fell asleep sitting up.
Her employer, a Spanish pharmaceutical company, cut her lunch break from three hours to two six weeks ago. She is understanding about the company's need to have her at her desk when workers in other European countries are at theirs.
But she still wants her shut-eye. "Afterward you have energy for the rest of the day," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A back rub and a nap at a downtown health spa replace the traditional siesta for these Madrid residents. (Xavi Gomez/Cover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BVA (LSE) (90%); BBVA (NYSE) (90%); BBVA (MCE) (90%); BBVA (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (51%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: EXTREMADURA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (90%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (51%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (51%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; EUROPE; SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EXTREMADURA, SPAIN (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; COMMUTING; SLEEP; WOMEN; LIFE STYLES EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (63%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE ROBERTO SUAREZ SANTOS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



651 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Growing Surpluses Extend Drop in Farm Prices

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25

 BODY:
Prices for most farm crops continued their decline this year as surpluses of grain and other commodities grew, and economists say they see no hope of a recovery in prices before 2001.
"There's not a whole lot of upside potential, basically because of large supplies," said Mike Kaus, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University. 
 The nation's net farm income reached $48 billion this year only because of a record $22.7 billion in crop subsidies and other direct government payments, a year-end analysis by the Economic Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture has found.
The department predicted that net farm income would fall $7.6 billion next year to $40.4 billion unless Congress stepped in with another multibillion-dollar bailout, a move that is highly likely in an election year.
Crop sales fell to $95.7 billion in 1999 from $102.2 billion last year. But receipts from cattle, hogs and poultry edged up to $95 billion from $94.5 billion, driven largely by an increase in beef prices.
Cattle are selling for 67 cents to 69 cents per pound, up from 61 cents a year ago, and the agriculture department expects the price to reach 73 cents by spring. Hog prices are also up this year after diving at the end of 1998, but they are still only at about the cost of production.
Because of the low prices that producers are getting for most other commodities, one in four agricultural operations probably will not cover its cash expenses next year, the department says in its 2000 forecast.
Parts of the South and Southeast will be hit especially hard next year "by dramatic declines in prices for rice and tobacco as well as continued low prices for corn and soybeans," the agency said.
Farm income is expected to rise in the northern Plains, because of the higher prices for cattle and the relatively low prices for feed.
That forecast could go out the window if there are widespread crop failures in the United States or elsewhere that drive commodity prices up. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (76%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (76%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (76%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (76%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FORECASTS AGRICULTURAL PRICES (94%); AGRICULTURE (91%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); FOOD PRICES (79%); CORN MARKETS (79%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); BEEF (74%); POULTRY (74%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); BAILOUTS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



652 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Faith in an Era of Change;
3 Parishes Embody Challenges for New York Archdiocese

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

 BODY:
When Catholics go to Mass, there is a moment just before Communion. Parishioners turn their eyes from the altar, grasp their neighbors' hands and wish them peace.
At St. Stanislaus, a tradition-bound Polish church in rural Orange County, the greetings are muted, almost perfunctory, as if the worshiper hopes not to disturb the flow of prayer. At St. Patrick's in Westchester County, parishioners linger over the greetings, with some saying the fellowship encapsulates the reasons they go to church. And at St. Martin of Tours in the Bronx, the handshakes, smiles and flashing peace signs at a Spanish-language Mass crest in a wave of good will that washes over the pews row by row. 
 As the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York awaits a change of leadership -- Cardinal John O'Connor is in ill health and will turn 80 next month -- the worshipers he has led for 15 years have never been more diverse. Some 50 languages are spoken by the 2.4 million Roman Catholics in the archdiocese, which comprises Manhattan, Staten Island, the Bronx and seven counties north of New York. Its two newest parishes offer Mass in Albanian and Korean.
As recent visits to three parishes showed, the diversity of the archdiocese is not only ethnic, but also spiritual, with seemingly as many styles of worship as there are parishes.
Throughout the United States, the Catholic Church grapples with problems caused by similar population changes: a dwindling number of priests and nuns, a deepening alienation even among people who still attend church, the widening gap between the church's teachings and the choices Catholics make in their lives.
To many Catholics, the findings of a recent New York Times poll suggested, personnel changes in the hierarchy of the church seem remote, having little bearing on their lives. For them, the place where the possibilities, meaning and problems of faith intersect is closer to home. It is at their church.
 
St. Stanislaus
Nancy Foran, the organist, comes in with her 14 children from across the border in New Jersey. Lillian Blakener, a hairdresser, and her husband drive eight miles from Goshen. Richard Westpy, a field supervisor for an alarm company, makes his way alone each Sunday from Glenwood, N.J.
For none of them is Pine Island's white steepled Church of St. Stanislaus their neighborhood parish. But for all of them, the parish's strict adherence to tradition strikes a deeper chord, making the trek worthwhile.
Before the early Mass even begins, the voices of parishioners reciting the rosary float through the well-tended church. Altar boys -- never girls -- assist the Rev. Joaquim Olendzki in the eucharistic rite. Twice a week, Father Olendzki celebrates Mass in Latin for a small group of old-timers, said the deacon, Frank Dembeck.
"The great majority of parishioners want to maintain our traditions and transmit them to their children," said Father Olendzki, who came to the archdiocese from the state of Rio Grande do Sul, in southern Brazil.
Built for Polish immigrants in 1912, St. Stan's, as parishioners call it, rises from the black dirt fields of Orange County, where farmers have grown onions for generations. In recent years, successive seasons of flooding and, this summer, drought have punished the region, yielding puny onions that sell so poorly they go unharvested. More and more, farmers are selling their land for housing developments.
But Polish ways continue to shape the church. Once a month, Mrs. Foran, a soprano who studied Polish music to better fit in at the church, has a Mass with only Polish hymns. In the weeks before Christmas, St. Stanislaus holds a version of wigilia, a traditional Polish meatless dinner, usually served on Christmas Eve.
Mr. Westpy, 63, said he was raised in a conservative Catholic family. For many years, he worshiped at Presbyterian churches that his wife and children attended. But six years ago, he found himself returning to the teachings of his upbringing.
"This is as close to that in 1999, 2000, as you can get," Mr. Westpy said after Mass at St. Stanislaus a few weeks ago. "All the issues that arise these days, women in the priesthood, priests marrying, they don't say anything to me."
Mrs. Foran, who schools her children at home and has taken in runaways and troubled youths, said she saw the church as a fortress against moral decay. "It's a hard time we're going through, given where families are," she said, "and the church has to be strong. I think the church has to stand firm and uphold what is right."
Mrs. Foran said the parish's integrity sprang from its emphasis on following heavenly, rather than human, will. Other churches were "horizontal, rather than vertical," she said, meaning they were preoccupied with pleasing the people in the pews.
There are others, though, who raise questions about St. Stan's, but they do so as if ashamed, not allowing their names to be used. "Sometimes I look at other churches, and I see them doing a lot more for the poor," one parishioner said. Another, saying she had no doubts about Father Olendzki's integrity, complained that parishioners were never told the details of church finances, and would probably be more generous if they knew more.
But the questions fade into whispers under the blanket of tradition. Most parishioners at St. Stan's seem to have made their peace with the way things are. "They make the rules, and we just follow them," said Mrs. Blakener, the haircutter. "In order to be a Catholic, you have to abide by the rules."
 
St. Martin of Tours
Physically, St. Martin of Tours is a cavernous, drafty brick church not far from the Bronx Zoo, but spiritually, discerning its borders is nearly impossible.
St. Martin's roams Crotona in the person of the Rev. John Flynn, its pastor, trying to get neighborhood toughs to trade guns for crucifixes. It is Dolly de la Rosa and the rest of the food committee, delivering groceries to families in need. St. Martin's is the priests who show up after shootings, blessing the streets as a way of cleansing them from bloodshed.
"The church has been on the streets," Father Flynn said. "We're part of the streets, and they're part of us."
St. Martin's original worshipers were Irish and Italians, now largely replaced by Latinos, one of the fastest-growing segments of the New York Archdiocese. One recent Sunday, the church offered three Masses. The first, in English, filled slightly more than half the pews, and the last filled far less.
But the 10:30 Mass in Spanish, honoring a Puerto Rican patron saint, "took off like an airplane," in the words of Father Flynn.
For that Mass, the organ fell silent, replaced by maracas, guitars and songs honoring Our Lady of Providence. Children dressed in red suppressed giggles on their way down the aisle, carrying baskets of sugar cane, yucca, beans, pineapples and coconuts. Worshipers crowded the pews and spilled out the back.
Deacon Frankie Vazquez, an electrical contractor, said he felt St. Martin's offered an authentic bilingual Mass, while other churches that called themselves bilingual conducted perhaps a tenth of the Mass in Spanish. Nevertheless, he said, the church needed to work harder to create harmony among the different ethnic groups.
"There's tension at home, there's tension at work, there's even tension on the way to work," he said. "At least church should be a place of peace."
Like many Catholics in the New York Archdiocese who answered the Times poll, parishioners at St. Martin's said helping the poor and the homeless should be a priority of the church. In Crotona, poverty is not an abstraction.
"There's everything here," said Angel Cruz, 25, who sat through the Spanish Mass in his wheelchair. Mr. Cruz had fallen two stories on a construction site, breaking both legs. His former employer was helping Mr. Cruz through his recovery, but he said others at St. Martin's had worse problems.
"This is something the pope has to look at, how to help poor people a little more, to help people who are living in trains, and the children who don't have enough to eat," he said.
The church worked hard to rebuild housing after the Bronx went up in flames 20 years ago. Now, the worst of the violence seems past; Father Flynn was unable to recall any murders in the last few months.
These days, Father Flynn is turning his attention inward. Mindful of the shortage of priests, he plans to prepare his flock for the day it may no longer have a pastor, by building up a core of parishioners who could one day minister to the community themselves.
"The community doesn't need to die," Father Flynn said. "It stays, because it's been formed in the love of God."
 
Church of St. Patrick's
From its parking lot, the Church of St. Patrick's hardly appears a spiritual battleground. Through several Masses each Sunday, the lot is crammed with expensive cars and sport utility vehicles, which spill out onto the nearby road. Nestled among the horse farms of Bedford in suburban Westchester County, St. Patrick's is among the wealthiest parishes of the archdiocese. Its members adore the intimacy of St. Patrick's, which has remained true to character, adding Masses rather than buildings.
But drive around Bedford's streets on a weekday at 5 in the morning, as William J. Walsh, an orthopedic surgeon, sometimes does, and you may notice the lights already on in many houses. Outside, limousines wait for airport-bound executives, and commuters who get to work early. Here, many people have money but few have time. "They're doing well, but they're working hard to do well," said Dr. Walsh, a member of St. Patrick's. "That puts different strains on a community, and on a parish."
Patricia Perlstein, who was running the children's liturgy at St. Patrick's, realized she and the same core of three volunteers were showing up each week. She finally pleaded with other parents to pull their weight, which they then did.
"You ask them, they come," said her husband, Adam Perlstein.
The Rev. Joseph Koretski, a philosophy professor at Fordham University, contends that suburbs and economic prosperity pose unexpected difficulties that will demand creative new solutions of the Catholic Church in America. "City and country parishes have a whole different life of their own," he said. "Suburban cultures are very prosperous, but they're turned into themselves."
Msgr. James T. Gorman, 68, who came to St. Patrick's two years ago after a career at parishes in poor urban areas and the nearby women's prison at Bedford Hills, is still getting over the luxury of having generous parishioners with cash on hand.
But his mission, he feels, is drawing new families to the church. Though he is not the only monsignor at St. Patrick's, he attends every Mass, his white hair and beard reminding some parishioners of Santa Claus. "I believe in making people feel welcome," Monsignor Gorman said. "They want to belong."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ORANGE COUNTY -- At St. Stanislaus in rural Pine Island, Nancy Foran, below, is the organist. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); WESTCHESTER -- Msgr. James T. Gorman, left, holds the host at St. Patrick's in the suburbs. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); THE BRONX -- At St. Martin of Tours, above, an English Mass for an ethnically diverse area. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 31); In Westchester, girls help with the service at St. Patrick's. Emily Perlstein, 8, left, and Katie Hickie, 10, prepared to be altar servers. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 34)
 
Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Assessing the New York Archdiocese"
 
HISPANIC: 36%
ITALIAN: 27%
IRISH: 19%
OTHER: 6%
ASIAN: 2%
BLACK: 5%
POLISH: 5%
 
Manhattan
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 556,329
Pct. of total pop.: 36.8
 
Bronx
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 581,697
Pct. of total pop.: 47.3
 
Staten Island
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 264,740
Pct. of total pop.: 64.4
 
Westchester
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 465,080
Pct. of total pop.: 51.1
 
Rockland
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 125,775
Pct. of total pop.: 45.9
 
Orange
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 160,047
Pct. of total pop.: 46.6
 
Sullivan
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 18,101
Pct. of total pop.: 25.9
 
Ulster
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 61,750
Pct. of total pop.: 36.7
 
Dutchess
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 120,378
Pct. of total pop.: 44.6
 
Putnam
Estimated 1997 Catholic population: 53,49
Pct. of total pop.: 659.8
(Source: Office of Pastoral Research, New York Archdiocese)(pg. 34)
 
Map of New York shows areas listed above. (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST MARTIN OF TOURS ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (NYC); CHURCH OF ST PATRICK'S (BEDFORD, NY); ST STANISLAUS CHURCH (PINE ISLAND, NY) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST MARTIN OF TOURS ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (NYC); CHURCH OF ST PATRICK'S (BEDFORD, NY); ST STANISLAUS CHURCH (PINE ISLAND, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



653 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Ivory Coast Coup Draws French Reply

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 25

 BODY:
In the wake of a coup in Ivory Coast, France said today that it wanted to send small numbers of troops to the country -- its former colony -- to protect the deposed president and to evacuate roughly 20,000 French nationals should that become necessary.
But tonight the Ivory Coast's new ruler refused entry to the French reinforcements, saying their presence could lead to a "coup de sang" or bloodbath. 
 "We say no to that," the new ruler, Gen. Robert Guei, said in a telephone interview with Agence France-Presse. The 550 French troops already on a base near the airport in Abidjan, the country's largest city, "is sufficient," he said.
The ousted President, Henri Konan Bedie, was reported to have taken sanctuary with the French garrison. Reports said 40 more French soldiers were ready to arrive by helicopter from Libreville, Gabon, and another 300 were awaiting orders in Dakar, the capital of Senegal.
At the moment there is no direct threat aimed at foreigners, but there has been looting and gunfire. The United States Embassy in Abidjan warned Americans to lock themselves in their homes, saying looters were going through the wealthy neighborhoods where foreigners live. However, one official said they seemed to be stealing only vehicles parked outside.
Armed soldiers have been joy-riding in stolen cars and taxis for two days, and have used their rifles and hand grenades to blow open the doors of downtown shops in the city of 3 million people. Today, orders were broadcast over the radio telling all soldiers to report to their units by this evening and to turn in all civilian vehicles at the central barracks.
General Guei, a former armed forces chief, had earlier said that Mr. Bedie should leave the country quickly because young officers who began the coup wanted to kill him. Tonight, he amended that, saying a nine-man national steering committee -- all military men -- would meet tomorrow to decide whether the former president could leave. He has already stipulated that Mr. Bedie's cabinet, many of whom are in the hands of mutineers, will stay.
Paris has condemned the coup and the Foreign Ministry said Mr. Bedie, at his own request, was at the Port-Bouet military base next to the Abidjan airport under the protection of the French 43rd Marine Infantry Battalion.
The French government, which has generally given up direct intervention in the affairs of its former colonies, has not demanded that Mr. Bedie be restored to power, but has called for the immediate re-establishment of order and security. News reports here were sketchy because it is Christmas Day and the coup caught almost everyone by surprise.
Ivory Coast has long been an island of relative stability, democracy and prosperity in the former French West Africa, and one of the pillars of French policy there. It is the world's biggest supplier of cocoa, and produces palm oil and other tropical products. Many French sun-worshipers vacationing in Africa head first for Abidjan on the direct Air France and Air Afrique flights and use it as a jumping-off spot to poorer countries.
The new military leaders said Abidjan airport, closed by the coup, would reopen on Sunday. The leaders of the army and police appeared on television tonight to pledge their allegiance to the new government.
Abidjan, the commercial capital, looks much like a French city. It has the same black-and-white arrow-shaped signs, traffic circles and red-and-white stone road markers. There are luxury hotels, nightclubs and restaurants, and the same stores and brands that can be seen in France are spotted there.
The government has been stable compared with those of other former colonies like Congo, Madagascar or the Comoro Islands. As a supplier of products that cannot be grown in Europe, Ivory Coast has become an important part of the French economy.
For decades, France had a much more interventionist policy in Africa than Britain, Portugal or other former colonial powers. It diplomatically embraced rulers that it approved of, and it also was ready to send troops -- often the Foreign Legion -- to prop up or restore presidents it favored.
Sometimes that contributed to stability in former French colonies. But it also contributed to resentment of some rulers who were perceived as puppets of France.
General Guei imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in Abidjan today after two nights of looting and sporadic gunfire in some districts. He warned that violators would be summarily shot.
The streets were reported empty. Stores had been closed for 48 hours, but Friday night's curfew failed to curb looting. Unpaid soldiers mutinied on Thursday, leading to a breakdown of law and order; others joined in as generals tried to re-establish military discipline.
President Bedie was overthrown on Friday when General Guei, a former armed forces chief, took the reins of power. He set up a 10-man junta and urged politicians of the governing Democratic Party and the opposition to form a government of national unity.
Relations between France and its former colony have deteriorated in the last few months because of differences between President Bedie and Alassane Ouattara, a former prime minister and deputy director of the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Ouattara, who is seen as a serious challenger to the long rule of the Democratic Party, wanted to run in next year's election, but Mr. Bedie's government barred him, claiming he was not a citizen and had forged identity documents.
Some French press comment today was equally severe toward both Mr. Bedie's and France's approach to its former colony. For the center-left newspaper Liberation, the tardy French reaction to the deteriorating political situation was a triple failure in political, military and diplomatic terms."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A youth pleaded for mercy yesterday after soldiers accused him of looting in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, after a military coup there on Friday. He was released, but others were arrested and taken to an army compound. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); COTE D'IVOIRE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); GABON (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (70%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IVORY COAST; FRANCE; FRANCE (98%); COTE D'IVOIRE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); GABON (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (70%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; MILITARY ROLE IN POLITICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IVORY COAST COUPS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY BASES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (70%); HELICOPTERS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: BEDIE, HENRI KONAN (PRES); GUEI, ROBERT (GEN); MCNEIL, DONALD G JR HENRI KONAN BEDIE (86%); ROBERT GUEI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



654 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: A 15-Month Labor Dispute Turns Into a War of Attrition

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: SPOKANE, Wash., Dec. 22

 BODY:
The 15-month struggle between Kaiser Aluminum and the United Steelworkers of America is one of the biggest, longest and fiercest labor disputes in years, but it is far more than an old-fashioned labor war. It is a war of attrition, a test of wills and a propaganda war against the billionaire Texan who controls Kaiser, a man the union denounces as a latter-day robber baron.
It is also a battle over two clashing visions of the future of the American workplace. Kaiser's workers say they deserve job security in return for their hard work, while management favors contracting out hundreds of jobs as part of a drive to minimize costs and increase competitiveness, even if it means dropping longtime employees. 
 On Sept. 15, 1998, the steelworkers' union went on strike against Kaiser's five aluminum plants after rejecting the company's demand to cut health benefits and eliminate 240 jobs by contracting work to lower-paying nonunion companies. Then in January, with the strikers disheartened from four months without a paycheck, union leaders told Kaiser that the strikers wanted to go back to work while the two sides continued negotiating.
But Kaiser took an unusual step, imposing a lockout and refusing to let any of the union's members return unless the union accepted Kaiser's demands.
"It was a slap in the face," said Dean Wise, a 21-year veteran of the mills whose family is scraping by thanks to his wife's job at Kmart.
The company lockout was also a severe blow to Spokane, a blue-collar city of 180,000, where Kaiser is the second-largest private employer. Two of Kaiser's five aluminum plants and 2,000 of its 2,900 unionized workers are based in this city, which is known for bloody union battles early this century.
Now, two mornings each week, in the shadow of the evergreen-covered Mica Mountains, Mr. Wise braves the biting dawn chill and pickets outside a gigantic erector set of a mill that heats aluminum, stretches it out and rolls it smooth. Huddled next to an oil drum filled with burning firewood, the pickets use bullhorns to heap abuse on the replacement workers as they drive in and out, calling them "scabs" and worse. Under federal regulations, Kaiser's lockout bars any union members from working.
"People who showed me pictures when their kids were born, now they're crossing the picket line," said his wife, Wendy Wise, a leader of a support group called Spouses of Steel. "It's real tough."
The workers complain about how much the company has changed since its glory days under Henry J. Kaiser, the industrialist who built Hoover Dam, Grand Coulee Dam and many of the ships in the World War II Navy. He was renowned for his generosity toward employees and for being a pioneer in providing employer-financed health coverage.
Kaiser is now controlled by a very different man, Charles E. Hurwitz, whose Houston-based holding company, Maxxam Inc., controls 63 percent of Kaiser's shares. In the 1980's, he rocketed to prominence as a corporate raider, acquiring Simplicity Patterns and Pacific Lumber -- the target of thousands of environmental protesters because of its aggressive cutting of California redwoods.
The federal government is suing Mr. Hurwitz, seeking $820 million, saying that he and his company contributed to the collapse of the United Savings Association of Texas in 1988. The bailout of the savings and loan cost taxpayers $1.6 billion and was the third largest in the nation's history. Mr. Hurwitz's spokesmen say that the suit is unfounded and that the savings and loan collapsed not because of mismanagement, but because of Texas' economic problems at the time.
Mr. Hurwitz acquired control of Kaiser in 1987, and labor relations have soured ever since as Kaiser has sought to reduce its work force.
"Henry J. Kaiser believed that the people who ran the plant were valuable assets, and he treated them that way," said Tim Charboneau, a millworker. "Hurwitz just seems to want to throw people away."
Ray Milchovich, Kaiser's chief executive, defended the company's cost cutting, insisting that it aimed not just to increase profits, but to preserve jobs long term by keeping the company in business.
"These are high-cost plants battling for survival in a very competitive industry," he said. "To sit and argue over what level of slop, what level of lack of productivity is appropriate in the year 2000 and beyond in a very competitive business is ridiculous. Who does that benefit? It certainly doesn't benefit employees, and it certainly doesn't benefit the shareholders."
For many workers, the lockout has cast a pall over the holiday season, even with the union giving everyone $140 a week, running a food bank and providing emergency payments to make sure no families lose their homes or primary vehicles.
Some workers have stopped giving allowances to their teenagers because they can no longer afford it. Many families have been forced to sell their second cars. And many workers grumble about not being able to afford presents for their children or grandchildren, although the United Steelworkers, with donations from other unions, has arranged a $25 gift certificate for each child.
"I'm barely making it," said Rolfe Lauren, a machine operator. "I've had to take $8,000 to $9,000 out of my savings to pay my bills. It's tough right now. But sacrifices have to be made to win this fight, and that's fine by me."
Children are also pitching in. Dan Giachetti, a metal transporter, said, "My 15-year-old daughter is doing a lot of baby-sitting. She's doing this to help the family out anyway she can. I'm humbled to tears. I don't tell her no because it's her way of helping."
Surprisingly, some workers insist that Christmas 1999 is their best holiday ever, offering reasons that are hard for outsiders to appreciate.
Many workers have marveled not only at their own fortitude, but at that of their friends. They say the struggle has forged lasting friendships the way war does. And they are amazed that co-workers they once dismissed as muscle-bound grunts have turned into leaders and sometimes heroes.
For many workers, this is a Christmas when solidarity and togetherness are the most precious gifts.
Jody Viebrock, a data-entry worker, offered a bittersweet smile when she acknowledged not being able to buy gifts for her two daughters this Christmas.
"We've talked about getting back to basics," she said. "We've talked about what Christmas really means, and materialism isn't where it's at. It's about singing Christmas carols and making Christmas cookies."
The workers, who average about $14 an hour, voice a sense of betrayal. They say that in 1984 they accepted a $4.50-an-hour cut in wages and benefits to keep Kaiser competitive, with an implicit promise that those concessions would be made up in good times, something they say has never happened. A decade later, in 1994, the workers agreed to new concessions, worth $50 million, under which each worker took on more responsibilities, a move that resulted in cutting the work force at one Spokane mill to 1,100 from 1,400.
"We worked with them to trim jobs and combine jobs and they said there'd be no more cuts," said Wes Beck, president of that mill's union local. "They said they wouldn't throw any more of the work over the fence, and now they come back and say they want to throw all these other jobs over the fence."
Kaiser officials insist that the company made no such promises. "The argument that there have been some broken promises or broken trust is a false accusation," said Jeremy Sherman, Kaiser's chief labor negotiator. He said the company would cut the number of employees at the plants largely through attrition, and was offering the workers a $3.13-an-hour wage increase over five years in exchange for increased productivity.
Company executives say Kaiser needs to reduce costs continually to compete with larger rivals.
"Alcoa is far stronger than Kaiser is," Mr. Sherman said. "Its plants are newer, larger and operate with far greater efficiency. Unless Kaiser can find ways to compete more effectively, the world of the future will not treat companies like Kaiser kindly."
But union leaders say that Kaiser was already prospering before the strike, thanks to their concessions.
To squeeze the company, the steelworkers have formed an unusual alliance with environmentalists, backing their efforts to stop Mr. Hurwitz's cutting of California redwoods. Together, they crowded into Maxxam's shareholders meeting outside Houston in May, and they ran two candidates, Howard Metzenbaum, former United States senator, and Abner Mikva, a former White House counsel, for seats on Maxxam's board. The union candidates lost, but they received 40 percent of the votes not controlled by Mr. Hurwitz.
The union has dispatched more than a dozen workers around the country to urge Kaiser customers to stop buying aluminum from Kaiser until it ends the lockout. In a blow to Kaiser, the Pepsi Bottling Company announced this fall that it would stop buying Kaiser aluminum.
At the moment, the union is playing what could prove to be its trump card. The union, with its environmental friends and its allies in state legislatures and in Congress, is urging the Bonneville Power Administration to stop providing Kaiser with low-cost, subsidized hydroelectric power on the ground that it is not a good corporate citizen.
If the union could persuade the power authority, a federal agency, Kaiser's electricity rates would soar, making the company immediately uncompetitive.
"We're saying that people who receive preferred rates subsidized by everyone else should be held accountable," said Larry Strom, a smelter worker. "They shouldn't be locking out their work force or trashing the environment. What's going on now is not right."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheryl Scott and her son William, 5, gathered food at the United Steelworkers Local 329 food bank in Spokane, Wash., last week. Her husband, Darrell, joined other union workers in a strike against Kaiser Aluminum in 1998 and was later locked out. The Scotts have five children.; The United Steelworkers went on strike against Kaiser Aluminum's five plants in September 1998, and both sides have waged a fierce battle since. Several workers picketed at a Kaiser smelter in Mead, Wash., last week. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KAISER ALUMINUM CORP; UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA KAISER ALUMINUM CORP (93%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAISER ALUMINUM CORP; UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE (WASH); UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM; STRIKES; LOCKOUTS; LABOR LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); STRIKES (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); WORLD WAR II (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN HENRY J KAISER (95%); CHARLES E HURWITZ (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



655 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: Senior Bush's Loss Set Course for Son's Candidacy

SERIES: LOOKING BACK/The '92 Presidential Campaign

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
For months, George W. Bush had sensed what was coming; he could see it in the news coverage of the campaign, feel it in the restlessness of the crowds he addressed on his father's behalf, hear it in acquaintances' apologies for their sudden fascination with a political insurgent named Ross Perot.
But Mr. Bush had tried, with intermittent success, to smile through it all, because that was his role: the tireless cheerleader, the dauntless optimist. 
 By 3 p.m. on Nov. 3, 1992, there was no more pretending.
"The exit polls look bad," Mr. Bush told his father, who had clung to the belief that he might beat back Bill Clinton's challenge in the end. Mr. Bush was actually underselling the truth. The exit polls looked awful.
And yet, hours later, when Mr. Bush listened to his father bid goodbye to the presidency in a concession speech in a Houston hotel, all the waiting and all the knowing that had preceded the moment did not make it any easier.
"I remember looking down at a White House photographer, a woman who just had tears streaming down her face -- and mascara -- and then I kind of looked at the ceiling," Mr. Bush said in a recent interview here. "If I'd looked at her, I would have been weeping like a baby."
To this day, his father's failed re-election effort stands as one of the most difficult episodes of Mr. Bush's life, a period when events seemed to spin out of his family's control and he watched a man he reveres suffer the ultimate public rejection.
But, just as important, the loss carried with it indelible lessons in the controllable and uncontrollable ways a campaign can go wrong, and it has a clear bearing on the kind of candidate Mr. Bush is today.
In 1992, he came to question the devotion of some of his father's associates from inside the Beltway. Now, he entrusts his presidential campaign to an "iron triangle" of three longtime advisers in Austin.
He saw his father tarred and feathered for agreeing to raise taxes after saying he would not. Now, Mr. Bush seems to avoid unnecessarily emphatic pledges that could come back to haunt him. He is also assiduous about articulating the themes and priorities of his campaign and projecting an inclusive image, two things his father was criticized for not doing well enough.
"His father's term in office -- and the campaign of 1992 -- have had as much impact on the way he's been governor and his current campaign as any other experience in his life," said Robert M. Teeter, who managed the re-election effort.
That bitter year was also a case study of the traits that distinguish the Bushes: their loyalty to one another, their stiff upper lips, their potent belief in their own worthiness.
It provided a similarly revealing glimpse of Mr. Bush, underscoring his capacity for anger and especially his competitiveness, so keen that he responded to his father's loss by insisting on a different kind of victory and training for a marathon, the first and only one he ever ran.
Political analysts, journalists and even some of Mr. Bush's opponents have speculated that his current quest is in part an effort to avenge his father's defeat. Mr. Bush has repeatedly laughed at this suggestion, but it is a sensitive enough point among his friends that one of them called a reporter to dispute it even though the reporter had not broached the subject.
Another friend, Joe O'Neill, a businessman in Midland, Tex., who grew up with Mr. Bush, acknowledged that the way President Clinton ended up comporting himself in office probably helped keep Mr. Bush's emotional memory of 1992 alive.
"The ignominy of losing to this guy, in particular, probably burns him," Mr. O'Neill said. "He has no respect for Clinton morally. And morals count in the Bush family."
Whatever Mr. Bush's tangle of motives, his friends and relatives say that what he witnessed in 1992 illustrated firsthand how quickly and dramatically political winds can shift and how little can be taken for granted. That perspective, they say, could stand him in good stead over the months to come.
"I think having seen his dad go through four national campaigns, particularly the last one, has given George a very realistic picture of what he faces," said former President Bush in a written response to several questions that were submitted to him, an interview format that he requested.
"When there is a bump in the road, I expect he will not be thrown off course," he added.
Although Barbara Bush has described her husband's interest in their eldest son's campaign as obsessive, the former president said he did not butt in with unsolicited counsel.
"I am available if George wants to ask my advice, but I was then and he is now," President Bush said. "I am yesterday. He is tomorrow."
President Bush receded into the past sooner than he wanted to, sooner than anyone around him thought he would. A year and half before the 1992 election, on the heels of the Persian Gulf war, he had a stratospheric job approval rating of 90 percent.
It dipped 20 points or so later in the year, but that seemed little cause for worry. "We went into the Christmas season upbeat," George W. Bush said.
Mr. Bush also had more personal reasons to be happy, because he was finally making the kind of name for himself that he would need if he wanted to run for governor, a prospect that had long been on his mind.
After living briefly in Washington to work on his father's successful 1988 presidential campaign, Mr. Bush had returned to his beloved Texas, settled in Dallas and put together a partnership that bought the Texas Rangers baseball team and paved the path toward the construction of a gleaming stadium.
Mr. Bush was the organization's managing partner and public face, an exuberant presence not in some distant sky box but in a seat above first base, where he beamed with pleasure as fans approached him for autographs.
But as 1992 began, his father's fate seemed increasingly uncertain.
Although Mr. Bush, feistier by nature than his father, had urged the president and his advisers to give the re-election campaign an early, aggressive launching, it was not moving as fast as it could have been, nor was it headed in a clear direction.
A downturn in the economy showed no sign of abating. And President Bush was still recovering from the departure of John H. Sununu, his chief of staff, who had been coaxed into resigning after doing and saying things that embarrassed the president, an unacceptable breach of loyalty in the Bush family's eyes.
Most ominous was the emergence of two protest candidates in addition to the herd of Democrats ganging up on President Bush. The first was Patrick J. Buchanan, whose attacks on the president in the Republican primaries badly bruised him. The second was Mr. Perot, a wealthy Dallas entrepreneur.
George W. Bush's business office was across the street from a small building where Perot posters, yard signs and bumper stickers were sold, and he had a perfect vantage point to observe the activity there.
"I remember seeing cars lined up, and these were nice, North Dallas cars," Mr. Bush said. "They should be screaming Republican."
Some of the drivers were people who were friendly with Mr. Bush or his wife, Laura, and she said he had called a few to seek explanations.
"They'd say, 'We love your dad, we love your dad, but we just feel we've got to,' " Mrs. Bush said in a recent interview. "And when that started, there was no way to figure out what was going to happen."
Her husband conferred with Mary Matalin, the campaign's deputy manager, as often as three times a day. He flew frequently from Dallas to Washington to try to pump energy and confidence into troops who seemed less spirited and focused than in 1988.
He also confronted the Republican opinion makers who were expressing doubts about his father.
"He was meeting with high-powered motormouths and trying to keep people on the reservation," Ms. Matalin said. But it seemed to Ms. Matalin and to Mr. Bush that they could not catch a break. President Bush's approval ratings sank lower, tugged in part by the country's economic doldrums, which the president had been slow to acknowledge. And the portrait of President Bush that took hold in news coverage was that of an elite, weak leader disconnected from the concerns of most Americans.
This characterization, as much as anything else, devastated his oldest son, who could not stand to see his father's character impugned.
"They so love each other," Ms. Matalin explained. "It's something to behold. I've been in a million situations with the father and son, and it's a movie -- I don't know how else to explain it. The relationship is so complete."
Perhaps because of that closeness, George W. Bush loudly berated reporters on a few occasions, demonstrating a temper that he has since controlled.
"I didn't act well," he conceded. "I got frustrated because of my dad. I got in some people's faces, out of frustration for him, out of love for him, not out of disdain for the person. In retrospect, those were such strong emotions for me, to see a good man get whipped."
Some members of the Bush family seemed amazed that voters might prefer Mr. Clinton or Mr. Perot over a man with such a long and distinguished political resume.
Barbara Bush scribbled in her diary, "I do not know whether George will survive this political year or not, but I do know that he is the only stable person running."
The last weeks of the campaign were tense. Laura Bush said she could still remember the dread she felt every morning when, in a ritual that she and her husband continue to this day, he would go to the front stoop to get the newspapers and bring them back to bed. Too often, she said, the publications carried newly discouraging polls or freshly critical editorials.
She said that she and her husband used to watch the morning news programs on television as well, but the habit died in fall 1992. "We just didn't want to hear another bad story," she said. "It was too much."
Her husband said that he knew it was all over before the actual moment of reckoning but that he tried not to let it show.
"I expect if he got down, he wouldn't burden me with that," his father said. "We don't work that way."
On Nov. 2, 1992, Mr. Bush was on the campaign plane with his father as it traced a path through various Southern states on the way to Houston, where the whole family would gather for the election. The Oak Ridge Boys, a vocal group that sometimes traveled with President Bush, sang "Amazing Grace" at his request.
The next day, as the returns trickled in, President Bush went to buy a fishing reel. Ms. Matalin remembered that he also joined George W. Bush and his brother Jeb in a game on the hotel grounds.
"Most candidates sit on the phone all day," Ms. Matalin said. "They were out there playing horseshoes."
It was not that President Bush had stopped caring.
"It's hard to describe the emotions of something like this," he said in a Nov. 4 diary entry that was included in his recent book of letters and other writings, "All the Best, George Bush." "But it's hurt, hurt, hurt and I guess it's the pride, too."
Mr. Bush took 38 percent of the popular vote, to 43 percent for Mr. Clinton and 19 percent for Ross Perot. The president's defeat, oddly, made his oldest son's current candidacy possible. George W. Bush said that he would not have felt comfortable about running for governor of Texas in 1994 if his father had still been in office. And without the five years he has spent as the leader of the country's second most populous state, Mr. Bush would not be in a credible position to seek the Republican nomination today.
But in the days immediately after the election he was mainly concerned with dissipating the frustration and disappointment he felt. So he laced up his running sneakers, put on the grubby outfit he typically used for exercise and hit the pavement.
He ran too far and too fast, opening the window to a severe cold and prompting a stern reprimand from his physician, who told him it was ridiculous to shoot for the Dallas marathon in December. Mr. Bush settled on the Houston marathon in January, still an ambitious goal.
His parents stood and waited at the 19-mile mark and, as Mr. Bush remembered it, cheered him on.
"There are some elderly women ahead of you!" his mother teased. "Why are you running so slow?"
His father just shouted, loudly and proudly, "There's my boy!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush was the dauntless optimist in his father's 1992 campaign, a losing effort that has strongly influenced his campaign today. The Bushes were together at the Republican convention in Houston that year. (The George Bush Presidential Library)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CASE STUDIES (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BRUNI, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



656 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: THEN/NOW: REFLECTIONS ON THE MILLENNIUM;
The Glory of Earth Treks and Star Treks

 BODY:
The last millennium encompassed the great age of geographic discovery, when hardy explorers penetrated the world's landmasses and mapped the great oceans that, much to everyone's surprise, turned out to cover 70 percent of the globe. So accessible has the Earth's surface become that today adventurers scale Everest and hike across Antarctica, tourists traverse Africa, and lone sailors circumnavigate the globe. Even the ocean depths, the last great frontier on Earth, have begun to yield their secrets to undersea explorers, revealing a world seething with bizarre life forms.
Now, as the millennium draws to a close, the frontier that beckons lies far overhead. Thirty years ago, Neil Armstrong took humanity's first small step on the moon, declaring it "one giant leap for mankind," only to have the space program retreat to tinkering in low Earth orbit. The question for the next century is whether this nation and others should invest heavily in space exploration, sending astronauts to Mars and unmanned probes to distant star systems, or use those resources instead to make the planet we inhabit a place no one would dream of leaving. 
 A thousand years ago, most people knew little of what lay beyond their immediate localities. Then, in the 13th and 14th centuries, Marco Polo and others followed overland routes to the Far East, returning with wondrous tales and goods. When those routes were closed, Western Europeans turned to the seas in search of new pathways.
The Portuguese, the first to make exploration a state enterprise, pushed down the coast of Africa and around to India. Columbus, seeking a westward route to Asia, discovered a continent whose existence he had not imagined. Magellan found the sea route around South America and died while circumnavigating the globe. The great age of oceanic exploration lasted three centuries and brought a change in perspective. The sea, once a barrier, was now a highway that led everywhere.
Meanwhile, on land, Spanish explorers pushed into most of Central and South America, English and French explorers traveled North America, and Lewis and Clark charted the American West. In the 19th century, explorers reached the interiors of Africa and Australia, and the coast of Antarctica. One decade into the 20th century, the last recesses, at the North and South Poles, were finally reached.
The Age of Exploration had been largely a European enterprise, driven by a mix of motives. The primary focus was a search for trade routes and riches, buttressed by a missionary zeal to convert the heathen, a drive for colonies, a thirst for knowledge about the natural world and a lust for the glory of it all.
Only a few of these motives are relevant to plumbing the ocean. Salvagers seek to retrieve gold from wrecked treasure ships on the ocean floor, and scientists seek new knowledge using undersea technologies originally developed for military purposes. But entrepreneurs who had hoped to mine the seabed for minerals can only wait for the economics to look better. The difficulty of operating in inky blackness under the crushing weight of the sea has ensured that progress will be slow. With only one-tenth of 1 percent of the deep seabed explored, we know less about it than about the surface of Mars.
As space enthusiasts gaze longingly at the solar system and the heavens beyond, they are entering a realm where few of the usual motives for exploration apply. The race to the moon was propelled by the struggle against Soviet Communism. But once that race had been won, the nation turned to less far-reaching efforts, like the international space station now under construction in low orbit. That is not the sort of venture to set pulses racing.
The best rationale for space exploration is to gain scientific knowledge and to search for life forms elsewhere, a task performed most cheaply and safely by unmanned probes. But the idea of sending astronauts to other planets remains a powerful, animating force. Some space officials predict that humans will be walking on Mars within two decades, or at least by mid-century. Visionaries are good at dreaming up reasons for such an arduous, three-year excursion -- the need to fulfill our destiny, to find extra resources and living space, to guarantee survival of the human species should an asteroid hit Earth. But the most compelling reason for humans to set foot on Mars is for the sheer thrill and glory of it. That passion should be indulged only when new tactics and technologies bring the costs and risks down to bearable levels, or private financing can be found. Meanwhile, there are even more formidable challenges -- in eliminating poverty, eradicating disease and educating the ignorant -- to be faced here on Earth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); ANTARCTICA (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (74%); INDIA (68%); PORTUGAL (54%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); HIMALAYAS (92%); MOUNT EVEREST (91%); MARS (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); ANTARCTICA (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (74%); INDIA (68%); PORTUGAL (54%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); EARTH (94%); HIMALAYAS (92%); MOUNT EVEREST (91%); MARS (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; EDITORIALS; FINANCES MILLENNIUM (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIKING (90%); OCEANS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SPACECRAFT (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); 

PERSON: NEIL ALDEN ARMSTRONG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



657 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: The 2 Million in America's Prisons

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Punishing the Country" (column, Dec. 21), by Anthony Lewis:
Mr. Lewis decries the two million population of America's prisons and jails, concluding that the growth of the number of prisoners in the last 10 years "has a profound social cost." 
 The significant decrease in crimes, especially crimes of violence, over that 10 years must be in part attributable to the reality that a substantial number of criminals are safely behind bars.
Perhaps Mr. Lewis should consider the social -- not to mention economic -- cost, of "thoroughly brutalized" criminals free to prematurely resume their careers in crime, violent or not, because of a shortage of prisons.
 
STUART C. SLOAME
Washington, Dec. 21, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (87%); CRIME RATES (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: SLOAME, STUART C; LEWIS, ANTHONY ANTHONY LEWIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



658 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: December 26, 1999

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Dec. 11, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMAGE BY DESIGN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (70%); TERRORISM (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); POLICE FORCES (54%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



659 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report;
Millennium Bonanza Doesn't Pan Out in N.Y.

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
WHEN the clock strikes midnight this Friday, the throngs in Times Square will be welcoming in a new year at what is expected to be the biggest New Year's Eve party in the square's 95-year history. But not everyone in New York will be in a festive mood, especially those who banked on the changeover to the Year 2000 to usher in big profits as well as big crowds. For them, the giant ball descending from atop 1 Times Square will more than likely symbolize fallen expectations.
There was a general assumption that big millennium celebrations would translate into people's clamoring to attend. But as it turns out, many people have opted to stay home because of Y2K fears and worry about travel and crowds. And unexpected resistance to high prices has caused party cancellations, restaurants closing for the night of the 31st and much lower rates on hotel rooms. 
 The same pattern of resistance is true in other cities from Washington to Minneapolis-St. Paul to Los Angeles. Cruise ships also managed to fill their millennium cruises only by scaling back their inflated prices.
But for many Americans, New York is still the city most synonymous with New Year's Eve partying and revelry, so cancellation of the Celebration 2000 party scheduled for the Jacob Javits Convention Center on New Year's Eve was particularly embarrassing.
With Andrea Bocelli, Sting, Aretha Franklin and Tom Jones among the scheduled performers, the tickets, priced at $1,000 to $2,500, were presented as a bargain in a city where tickets to Broadway shows cost upward of $75. Although Celebration 2000 eventually scaled down plans and prices, the public stayed away, and the event was scrapped.
Many other big-name events still have space available. These include the dinner party with Champagne and dancing to three different orchestras at the Waldorf-Astoria ($1,500 a person); the Metropolitan Opera performance of Act II of "Die Fledermaus" followed by dinner and dancing on the tiers of the Opera House ($1,500 to $2,500); World Yacht dinner cruises with open bar and live music ($550 to $999); dinner and dancing at the Rainbow Room ($3,000); a Madison Square Garden concert with Billy Joel, followed by dinner and drinks ($153 to $1,002); Windows on the World ($300 in the bar, $2,000 with dinner in the dining room), and Samplings restaurant, on the second floor of the Crowne Plaza in Times Square (where for $550 guests can enjoy a six-course dinner meal with Champagne and a close-up view of the crowd and the ball drop).
Some of those prices have been lowered from original levels, and some hotels that had planned to sell millennium packages have abandoned the idea.
Yet most city hotels will be full or close to it, because occupancy is always high over New Year's, and because New York has only about 65,000 hotel rooms, compared with about 120,000 in Las Vegas and 94,000 in Orlando, Fla. Moreover, even on a normal day -- and New York is anything but normal on New Year's Eve -- the city's hotels are the costliest in the United States. At an average $178.60 a day this year, according to Smith Travel Research, rates are more than $40 higher than in San Francisco, the next most expensive.
To increase occupancy, many New York hotels lowered room rates and dropped the four-night requirement to three or even two nights.
For example, $695 rooms at the Waldorf-Astoria -- that's for one day -- sold for $389 through Hotel Reservations Network, a consolidator that still has rooms available in 12 New York hotels (although the Waldorf is full). Rooms from $550 at the Hilton at 53rd Street and Avenue of the Americas sold for $179, while two weeks ago the Central Park Inter-Continental New York listed its rooms for the holiday with Priceline.com, discounting its posted $389 daily rate to $250.
The Michelangelo, at 51st Street and Seventh Avenue, considered setting its four-night millennium packages at between $4,000 and $8,000, but eventually made them $1,800 to $2,700 for three nights. And three hotels that offered to rent their building and hotel staff over New Year's Eve did not receive any takers.
The 627-room Millennium Broadway in Times Square was asking $3 million rental from Dec. 31 through Jan. 2, but now has two-night packages beginning at $550 a night. The 155-room Fitzpatrick Grand Central Hotel at 44th between Lexington and Third Avenues was asking $1.5 million rental, while the 92-room Fitzpatrick Manhattan at Lexington and 57th Street was available for $1 million. When neither found takers, they put together packages for $1,999 total per room with a four-night minimum stay, or $400 a night per room with a two-night minimum stay. All three hotels still have packages available.
This price cutting is little different from the yield management widely practiced by airlines and cruise ships, which raise or lower fares according to demand. Or from sales on clothing or other slow-moving items in shops or department stores. What is different is the refusal of many people, even during flush economic times, to pay sky-high prices.
Yet there are still bargains to be had in New York, including the light show, fireworks and other free entertainment in Times Square on Friday and into the new year. It will cost $7 for a bird's eye view of the waning hours of the old year in 2000 from atop the Empire State Building, which will open at 9:30 a.m. on Friday and remain open until 7 p.m.
And there is the city itself, the one that never sleeps. Especially over New Year's. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); NEW YEAR; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESTAURANTS MILLENNIUM (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CRUISES (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); MUSIC (69%); MARINE VESSELS (67%); OPERA (66%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN THOMAS WOODWARD 'TOM' JONES (54%); JACOB KOPPEL JAVITS (54%); ARETHA FRANKLIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



660 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 12-26-99: Word & Image;
Only Yesterday

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
To guess where we're headed, it helps to appreciate how far and fast we've come. As an obliging media person, I am measuring: not the millennium, merely a century. Not any century, just the one I've inhabited, surmising that it set a record for stretching human experience and endurance.
My family's journey is one good measure of our astonishing leaps. My parents were born at the turn of the last century in villages that in swift succession flew the flags of Austria-Hungary, Poland, Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union and now Ukraine. They bore me in Germany (for a time, the German Democratic Republic). I had kids in New York and Washington, and one of them closed the century by giving birth in Hollywood. We went west, Mr. Greeley, at a pace you never imagined. 
 En route, like much of the world -- whose population quadrupled to six billion -- our family survived Hitler and Stalin, several hot wars and a cold one, and celebrated the demise of colonialism, fascism and communism. Like much of the world, we became converts to democratic capitalism. Quite a trip.
Even without such extensive migration, most Americans experienced a similarly wild ride: from rural isolation and industrial drudgery to communities and comforts once unimaginable. The country's population grew from 76 million to 275 million, but that only hints at our dizzy metamorphosis. Consider instead how 14,000 motor vehicles in 1900 exploded to more than 200 million in 2000, with vast reverberations of density and dispersion. Or consider the psychic dislocations that occurred as a day's travel was redefined from 10 miles by horse to 10,000 by jet.
And how can we grasp the effects of the 100-year surge in the typical American's life span from 47 years to 76? Or the growth of the over-65 population from 3 million to 35 million, even as the workweek has shrunk from 60 hours to 38 and most labor has come to require more brain than brawn? Fewer than one in 10 of our teenagers went as far as high school in 1900, but eight out of 10 now graduate and nearly a third of these finish college as well.
Still, our learning seems hardly adequate to our vaulting technologies. Electricity and telegraphy were still novelties when this e-mail century began. The Wrights were three years from their first 12 seconds aloft. Without radio, films or television, oratory was our main communal entertainment. Most people in 1900 washed with pitcher and basin in the bedroom, and not until 1907 did Ellsworth Statler offer every hotel guest a private bath at moderate prices -- in Buffalo, the nation's eighth-largest city.
Our democracy was no less primitive in 1900. The electorate was not yet trusted to choose senators directly. Women were not trusted to vote, period. Black Americans, barely a generation out of slavery, were being lawfully subjugated, even lynched in much of the country, and economically deprived everywhere. Corporations were managed mostly by their owners, who gave slim public accounting. The federal budget totaled $500 million, a sum comparable to $10 billion today (when the budget is $1.8 trillion); it required no income tax. The president's visible staff (now represented as 500) numbered 10, including four messengers and doorkeepers.
While culling these facts, I was reminded by Frederick Lewis Allen's midcentury history, "The Big Change," that despite our spectacular transformations, some aspects of the American temperament have remained surprisingly constant, in both admirable and deplorable ways.
On the proud side of the ledger, there is our tendency to meet both foreign challenge and domestic failure with reasoned effort, experiment and reform. Though capable of passionate mood swings, we have never relied for long on ideological orthodoxy or been seduced by radical nostrums. We have gradually democratized our economic and political systems without dismantling them. We have expanded but also restrained the role of government. We have let the creativity of individuals determine the direction of our progress.
But we have failed to tame the selfishness that is deemed the source of our energy. We have been stingy with communal projects. We have rarely been generous with the poor among us and around the world.
At the beginning of the century, as at the end, too many of our businesses have strained to avoid the competition they claim to value. Through trusts, monopolies and mergers, and with legal bribes to politicians, our capitalist elites have maneuvered to escape taxation, corner markets, rig prices and otherwise trick customers and taxpayers. In 1999 as in 1900, the profit motive that we employ to inspire us ends up also corrupting us -- until with deductible charities we try to repurchase conscience.
That charity remains essential to the survival of so many Americans is a further constant of our century. One study in 1900 concluded that about 10 million Americans -- or 13 percent -- were "failing to obtain sufficient necessaries for maintaining physical efficiency." That's a pretty good parallel to our contemporary "poverty line," the federal standard of minimally adequate income for a family of four. And behold: the current standard of $16,600 defines a needy population of precisely 13 percent.
We would appear even more coldhearted if we quantified the disparity between the richest and poorest Americans or between the median income of American families -- $39,000 -- and the vast majority of the families around the world.
Surely the 21st century will be no less transforming than the 20th. I can foresee human habitats in space and beneath the seas, artificial environments to grow our crops and transcontinental parliaments, courts and cops. But however great our progress, I fear we will still not properly share our bounty with the poor. It is a blind spot as great as that of our forebears who insisted, only yesterday, that wars, and even slavery, were necessary to their prosperity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (88%); UKRAINE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (88%); UKRAINE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TWENTIETH CENTURY LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%); WORK WEEK (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



661 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 1;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Industry, Long Shy of Politics, Is Now Belle of Ball

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 25

 BODY:
At a time when Congress is bitterly divided and unable to reach consensus on issues like gun control and health care, Democrats and Republicans are happily reaching across party lines to pass legislation backed by high-tech companies.
The high-tech industry, at the same moment, is lavishing new attention on Washington and changing its once-aloof posture toward the federal government. 
 Republicans and Democrats are both eager to win the loyalties of high-tech companies and executives, knowing that they represent untold jobs, wealth and ultimately votes and campaign contributions.
For its part, the industry has realized that the federal government can do its members as much harm as good. Microsoft, and its battle with the Justice Department, along with a spate of other threatened legal problems, drilled this point home.
"Microsoft was a poster child for our industry," said Connie Correll, director of communications for the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade organization that represents America Online, Dell and I.B.M., among others.
Now, the city the industry once eschewed -- along with standard-issue, inside-the-Beltway practices like lobbying and writing campaign checks -- is full of visiting high-technology barons and marquee lobbyists who are working long hours to press the industry's agenda.
When representatives of Silicon Valley arrive in Washington they often receive the kind of red-carpet treatment once reserved for Hollywood stars. In September, Meg Whitman, the founder of the auction site eBay, made her third trip to Washington this year. In a single day, she met with more than 20 senators and House members, dividing her attentions carefully between the political parties. She was feted by Republicans at lunch and Democrats at dinner.
"They are stars," said Representative W. J. (Billy) Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who heads the telecommunications subcommittee that oversees many Internet start-ups. "People want to know them, touch them," added his colleague Representative James P. Moran, Democrat of Virginia.
Like suitors cooling their heels on the front porch, Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill have spent the last year doting on the high-technology industry and its kingpins, often working in rare harmony on issues dear to the heart of high-tech companies.
"We've been able to get stuff through Congress at a time that it is hard to do that," said Marc Andreessen, the co-founder of Netscape Communications who has now started his own company. It is tough, he said, for members "to be anti-high tech."
Last year, Congress granted the industry a three-year moratorium on e-commerce sales taxes, increased the number of job visas for high-tech workers and tightened restrictions on class-action lawsuits against high-tech companies whose stock prices plummet. This year, Congress extended a tax credit for research and development to five years and limited lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer failures, among other things.
More complicated issues await Congress next year, including new bouts on visas and taxation and a debate over expanding access to Internet lines.
"A few years ago you had a handful of bills that affected the industry," said John Scheibel, the point person for Yahoo in Washington. "This year you have literally hundreds of bills."
And both Republicans and Democrats are unrelenting in their devotion to the industry. Congressional Republicans point proudly to their "e-contract," Democrats promote their "e-genda." But the two packages of bills have one thing in common -- they greatly benefit the high-technology industry. In fact, high-tech issues are so popular, the House and Senate both formed high-tech working groups this year, and members virtually stampeded to sign up.
"The level of interest is as high or higher than any other set of issues I'm aware of," said Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader from South Dakota. "It's a new paradigm."
The most important victory for the industry this year was passage of a bill that will limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer failures. The measure, one of the few high-technology issues of the year with partisan overtones, pitted big business, which aggressively pushed for the measure along with the industry, against trial lawyers. The matchup put Democrats in an uncomfortable position, because trial lawyers are an important Democratic cash constituency. Still, such is the power of the high-tech industry that enough Democrats banded together to pass the bill.
Then just before the recess came another victory. Mr. Moran and other moderate New Democrats bucked their Democratic leaders to help salvage a digital signature bill, which would give cybersignatures the legal weight of ink-and-paper signatures. That measure must be reconciled with the Senate version next year. Lawmakers also extended a crucial research and development tax credit to five years from one year.
The battle over the digital signatures bill is a textbook example of how the new politics of high-tech has changed the workings, and the old alliances, in Congress. Just before Congress went home for the holidays, 30 lobbyists piled into Mr. Moran's office to try to resurrect the bill before the end of the session. "They knew they needed our votes," Mr. Moran said. "They realized we understood the issue, and that we wanted to be helpful and that we had the largest caucus in Congress -- 64 members."
The New Democrats, a collection of moderate House members who bill themselves as high-technology's sweethearts, then banded with Republicans to defeat the Democratic leadership bill, which included consumer protections the industry deemed objectionable.
Republicans looked on that Democratic battle with glee -- along with the fight over Y2K lawsuits -- convinced many more would follow, including next year's possible vote on China's trade status.
Unlike the titans of the old economy, like the oil companies and farmers, the high-tech sector has no particular home in Congress, no single committee to fight its battles, like energy or agriculture. Instead, it has a plethora of benefactors, working across party lines to get things done on issues they consider nonpartisan and nonideological. "You have to work hard to make technology issues Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative," said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts. "It's not the contras versus the Sandinistas."
That is an important change. In 1996, when Congress passed a bill that would make it a crime to distribute indecent material on the Internet, there was a partisan free-for-all in which social conservatives rallied against pro-business Republicans and Democrats. It was one of the first efforts Congress had made to grapple with the Internet. The United States Supreme Court found the law unconstitutional.
Nowadays, on many high-tech issues, it is not unusual to find a liberal Democrat, like Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, working closely with conservative Republican colleagues, like Senators John Ashcroft of Missouri and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, on encryption legislation. Representative Christopher Cox, a conservative Republican from California, bonded with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, in battling efforts to tax sales on the Internet. Typically, these coalitions hew to their constituents -- I.B.M. is Vermont's largest employer and Novell has its headquarters in Utah.
In the House, Representative David Dreier, Republican of California, Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, and Thomas M. Davis III, a Virginia Republican whose district includes a growing number of high-tech companies, among others, are viewed as industry experts.
The New Democrats are often willing to buck their own leadership to live up to the label as technology boosters. In the past two years, their numbers have grown, to 64 this year from 41 in 1997.
These New Democrats have breakfast with high-tech executives every week and visit Silicon Valley routinely. "I think they are trying to create a mini high-tech party in a way," said Wade Randlett, a co-founder of TechNet and now an executive at Red Gorilla, an Internet company. "It's a smart political approach."
The bulging docket of high-tech issues had led to dramatic growth in the industry's lobbying on Capitol Hill. Internet and software companies have snagged some of Capitol Hill's best talent this year -- former Congressional aides whose expertise blends technology and politics. While Microsoft built a large battery of lobbyists, beginning two years ago, few other high-tech companies had Washington lobbying operations. Suddenly, companies, including Yahoo and Gateway, are busily opening Washington outposts, hiring lobbyists and starting trade associations. And in yet another coming-of-age gesture, executives are beginning to dip into their coffers.
"It's so critical that Silicon Valley be involved in Washington right now," said Chris Larsen, the 39-year-old founder of E-Loan who has made six trips here this year to meet with members. "The stakes are really high."
High-tech lobbying has become so profitable that some high-powered lobbyists are carving out specialty niches and crossing party lines to do it. Edward W. Gillespie, a former policy and communications director for Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, and Jack Quinn, Vice President Al Gore's former chief of staff, have teamed up to start a firm. The two have worked together on legislation to ease encryption export restrictions, a high priority for the high-tech industry. Tony Podesta, the brother of John D. Podesta, White House chief of staff, has also taken on a number of high-tech clients and even renamed his firm Podesta.com.
Other notable Washington names have been recruited. Michael D. McCurry, the former White House press secretary, and Susan Molinari, a former Republican Congresswoman, are working in tandem for iAdvance, a recently formed coalition that seeks to widen access to broadband Internet lines. Various high-tech companies on the West and East coasts have banded together on various legislative issues.
Silicon Valley, meanwhile, has become a favorite destination for lawmakers during the Congressional recess. Members of both parties have embarked on fact-finding missions to stay abreast of new technology and the issues they may spawn, and, to mine for campaign cash.
Two weeks ago, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, still weary from budget wranglings on Capitol Hill, led five colleagues, including his No. 2 man, Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, to the West Coast. They attended tutorials with executives from Autoweb.com and Flextronics International, among others, and came home with a bushel of campaign money.
Not to be outdone, Mr. Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, touched down in Silicon Valley the next week with 12 colleagues. The delegation raised even more money than the Republicans. Others visited as well: Mr. Hatch, a Republican presidential candidate and Microsoft nemesis, attended a glitzy fund-raiser; Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts also visited.
For now, though, industry campaign contributions have not kept pace with the rapid growth of the high-tech sector and are nowhere near the size of other corporate giants like AT&T, or labor unions or ideological groups like the National Rifle Association.
As of Dec. 1, the computer industry, including Internet companies, gave more than $4.4 million through individual contributions, political action committees and unregulated, soft money. It gave double the amount for the first six months of this year than in the corresponding period in 1998. Fifty-four percent went to Republicans, according to the Center for Responsible Politics, a nonpartisan research group.
So far, the high-tech industry has promised itself to no one.
"We're the prettiest girl at the dance right now," said Ms. Correll of the Information Technology Industry Council. "Everyone wants to curry favor with the high-tech industry."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the high technology industry's pursuit of its interests in Washington misstated the connection of Meg Whitman to the eBay auction site. She is its president and chief executive; its founder was Pierre Omidyar.

 
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi visited Holly Oak Elementary School in San Jose, Calif., on a trip to meet with high-tech entrepreneurs. (Rick E. Martin/San Jose Mercury News)(pg. 20)
 
Chart: "LEDGER -- Of Microchips and Campaign Money"
Silicon Valley is increasingly finding it worthwhile to pay attention to Washington. One sign is its increased campaign contributions.
 
The Industry Is Giving More . . .
Contributions from the computer equipment and services sector. Figures in millions of dollars.
 
ELECTION CYCLE
 
1991-92
DEMOCRATS: $2.11
REPUBLICANS: $2.34
 
1993-94
DEMOCRATS: $2.02
REPUBLICANS: $1.89
 
1995-96
DEMOCRATS: $4.16
REPUBLICANS: $4.53
 
1997-98
DEMOCRATS: $4.05
REPUBLICANS: $5.30
 
. . . But It's Still Not the Largest Giver in Its Niche
Contributions, in millions, from various sectors of the communications industry for the 1999-2000 election cycle through Dec. 1, 1999.
 
TOTAL
 
Television, movies and music -- $6.52
Telephone utilities -- $5.39
Computer equipment and services -- $4.50
Printing and publishing -- $2.58
Telecomm. services and equipment -- $2.29
Electronics manufacturing and services -- $0.50
Misc. communication/electronics -- $0.03
 
Graphs show the percentage of each donation Democrats, Republicans, and other parties received from the communications industries.
 
(Source: Federal Election Commission data as analyzed by the Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (66%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AOL INC (56%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); INTERNET SALES TAX (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); CELEBRITIES (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); SALES TAX (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); STARTUPS (50%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (50%); CLASS ACTIONS (50%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); JAMES P MORAN (58%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (58%); MARC ANDREESSEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999



662 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS;
Parents on Their Knees, Begging for Baby Sitters

BYLINE: By LESLIE BERGER

 BODY:
MICHAEL Z. WISE is a doting, well-prepared father. He and Tania Taubes, his equally conscientious wife, keep a list of three baby sitters for weekends, evenings and holidays, in addition to their full-time nanny. They also keep the names of half a dozen teenagers in their Upper West Side neighborhood who are available to watch children.
But for the evening of Saturday, Oct. 30, the night before Halloween, even the resourceful Mr. Wise and his physician spouse were unable to reserve a sitter. So, since they felt they could not miss a party given by an old and dear friend, Mr. Wise and Dr. Taubes attended the gathering in shifts. 
 "First, Tania went from about 8 o'clock until 10 o'clock, and then I went and stayed until about, oh, quarter till 1," recalled Mr. Wise, a journalist whose specialties include architecture and German culture.
As any city parent will affirm, procuring a baby sitter has become as hard as getting a restaurant reservation, and the competition can get ugly. Like junkyard dogs fighting over scraps of meat, otherwise genteel people have been known to outbid friends, flaunt social connections and bully college personnel in a quest that has become another urban obsession.
"Those are the two hot topics: real estate and child care," said MaryAnn Liberatore, owner of Park Avenue Nannies. "During a recession, people will stay home or someone's sister-in-law will do the baby sitting. What I've seen is tons and tons of weekend sitters, and nannies to travel to the Bahamas at Christmastime. People just don't think at all about spending another $1,000 or $2,000 to take their nanny to Barbados."
Records kept by Barnard College's baby-sitting registry, a nonprofit service that refers students to families, confirm this impression. The number of families signed up for Barnard's baby-sitting service is 2,148 in this academic year, up from 1,400 families in 1995-96. Similarly, the number of one-time or occasional jobs has grown steadily, from 2,700 in 1997-98 to 2,803 last year and 2,963 so far this year.
In a time of high demand, expectations are also on the rise. Parents not only prefer mature women, they also want sitters who know CPR, speak Mandarin Chinese or play chess. "All my parents expected was that we were alive when they got home," said Kathleen Lewis, the founder and owner of Pinch Sitters, a Manhattan agency. "Today, parents want a fairy godmother."
Still, Ms. Lewis and the owners of similar businesses say their stables of sitters are booked solid, all the time. Demand at Barnard has prompted student managers to begin discouraging families outside Manhattan from signing up at all. A new rule this year bars Barnard baby sitters from working more than four days a week.
Barnard's minimum charge is $6.50 an hour, an apparent bargain compared with the $10 an hour that is standard on the Upper East and West Sides. But minimums can be irrelevant in a sellers' market. Most Barnard sitters get market rate, and some parents pay $15 and up for a sitter-tutor.
Some families lose out in this bidding war. "It's unfair that single parents and the ones who really need the help are the ones whose jobs go unfilled," said Adrienne Davis, a sophomore and one of the service's managers. "But we try our best to help them."
One family holding a New Year's Eve party is offering $250 per sitter for the evening, and has requested several Barnard students to mind guests' children, Ms. Davis said. Some services report that the millennium has not generated the onslaught of bookings anticipated, but Pinch Sitters, for one, is refusing to book any sitters at all despite high expected demand.
"I could make a lot of money that night if I wanted to, but I don't want work myself and I don't expect it of my sitters, many of whom are probably invited to the same parties as my clients," Ms. Lewis said. "I've had calls from people who say they're desperate and I tell them, 'What's so bad about spending this moment at home with your loved ones?' "
The city is filled with tales of desperation throughout the year. Jennifer Edelson, a poet and an East Side mother, told of two women who started out sharing a baby sitter and wound up nursing a grudge. After several months, one offered the sitter a raise and an extra day's work, effectively cutting out the other.
"It really caused a division among a whole circle of friends, with people siding with either one or the other," she said.
When money alone isn't enough, there are perks. One of Ms. Liberatore's weekend nannies tooled around Greenwich, Conn., in a new Cherokee Jeep provided by her employers for her use. Vacations abound. "Remaining in the New York City area over Christmas break?" read one recent ad posted at Marymount College in Manhattan. "If you love kids and sports, come spend it with us in our large lake house in a hemlock forest one hour north of Manhattan. Your job is to entertain our sociable, sports-loving 9-year-old boy. You'll have your own room and bath with TV and lake view. Good eating. Access to car and computer."
Marymount doesn't have a baby-sitting service, but its director of professional and career development, Joan Baum, has found herself fielding more requests from parents. They tell her that students "will find it extremely rewarding to be in the company of wonderfully cultured and connected people," Ms. Baum said. "This is quid pro quo with a vengeance!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sean Kelly)
 
Chart: "Babies Galore"
The number of client families registered with Barnard College's baby-sitting service, by academic year.
 
1995-96 -- 1,400
1996-97 -- 1,645
1997-98 -- 2,026
1998-99 -- 1,945
1999-2000 -- 2,400*
 
*Projected
 
Chart: "SOURCES: Desperate Parents: CLip and Save
These colleges and agencies in Manhattan offer part-time and occasional baby sitters. More are listed in the Yellow Pages, under the headings "Nanny Service" and "Sitting Services."
 
BARNARD COLLEGE About 1,000 students participate in this baby-sitting service.
 
Fees For $15 a year, parents can have their requests for baby sitters displayed. The official minimum hourly rate for sitters is $6.50, although most families pay more.
 
Phone 212-854-2035 or 854-7678
 
 
MARYMOUNT COLLEGE Has a baby-sitting service, but a far more informal one than Barnard's. Though it is not part of her job, Joan Baum, director of professional and career development, accepts baby-sitting requests and forwards them to students seeking part-time work.
 
Phone 212-774-4813 for Ms. Baum directly or call 800-MARYMOUNT.
 
 
PINCH SITTERS Specializes in same-day help.
 
Fees $14 an hour, with minimum of four hours.
 
Phone 212-260-6005
 
PARK AVENUE NANNIES Places sitters for regular part-time and full-time jobs as well as for weekends and vacations. Recruits heavily from New York University students.
 
Fees $12 an hour, with a minimum of four hours.
 
Phone 212-297-6158
 
TOWN AND COUNTRY DOMESTIC AGENCY
One division of this agency, which is sometimes called Gilbert Childcare for a business it absorbede about 10 years ago, specializes in part-time and occasional baby sitters.
 
Fees $10 to $12 an hour, depending on the ages and the number of children. Four hours minimum and transportation fee.
 
Phone 212-245-8400

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BARNARD COLLEGE (87%); PINCH SITTERS (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: PINCH SITTERS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HALLOWEEN (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL Z WISE (66%); KATHLEEN LEWIS (56%); TANIA TAUBES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2000



663 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Could This Be the New World?

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of "The Coming Anarchy," a forthcoming book.

DATELINE: QUEBEC

 BODY:
Ancient and medieval mapmakers would better understand the world of 2100 than would the politicians of 2000.
Nations as we know them have existed for only a few hundred years. But cities have been with us since the dawn of civilization. And while the future of the city is not in doubt, modern nations will probably continue to weaken in the 21st century. By 2100, the organizing principle of the world will be the city-state, along with the urban radials of prosperity that follow major trade routes. 
 Indeed, loyalty toward the polis will gradually overwhelm the traditional state patriotism of the 20th century. Empires will be agglomerations of urban areas. Cities and their hinterlands will make alliances and fight wars with and against each other -- less over territory than over bandwidths in cyberspace and trade privileges. Power politics will prove eternal.
Neither states nor cities by themselves provide stability; elaborate institutions of finance and tax collection, manned by responsible officials, do that. In areas that already have such institutions (North America, Europe, China), the weakening or elimination of traditional nations will unleash further economic growth. By 2100, North America will be a loosely knit nation of competitive urban regions, a new version of the ancient Greek city-states.
In areas without strong institutions, like sub-Saharan Africa, the transition to city-states will cause instability and suffering in the first decades of the 21st century. Lebanon, Syria and Jordan will fade as the Arab world reverts to the Phoenician city-state system, dominated by Greater Beirut, Greater Damascus and Greater Amman.
Cultures able to produce exportable goods and services will dominate those that can't. Because Communism did more damage to Central Asia and the Caucasus than Islamic fundamentalism has done to Iran, Greater Persia, oriented around the city-states of Tehran, Tabriz and Mashad, may dominate the weaker Turkic societies that used to be known as Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan. By 2100, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan will have broken up into various khanates.
Of course, this map is impressionistic. A more accurate map would be a hologram in constant motion, showing how power and sovereignty shifts and overlaps. It would include new cults and ideologies, as well as corporate empires, surveillance networks, and crime groups and the technologies they control.
Political systems in 2100 will be elegantly varied, unconstrained by the sanctimony of the late 20th century, with its simple call for "democracy." The next century will be the age of high-tech feudalism.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "VAST CITY-STATES WILL BE THE MAIN POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS"
People will increasingly live in big metroplexes. The Pacific Northwest, for instance, will become the city-state of Portcouver. The fact that Portland was once in the United States and Vancouver was once in Canada will have only vague, unbinding significance.
AMAZONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTORATE, financed by a consortium of global corporations.
 
EAST COAST CORRIDOR, These city-states have closer trade links to Europe than to the rest of North America.
 
States will weaken Areas with solid institutions, like Europe, will prosper.
 
Areas with weak institutions, like Africa, will see more instability. Cities will compete fiercely for trade.
 
Instead of bold lines outlining countries, as in present maps, there will be many thin broken lines and 'gradients' of sovereignty.
 
Vectors of prosperity will pass through zones of instability
Greater Thailand (the city-states of Bangkok and Nong Khai) will be a tributary of the powerful southern Chinese city of Kunming. Kunming, in turn, will form one end of the Mekong River Prosperity Sphere that continues to Vietnam.
(Illustrations by Juan Velasco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); CANADA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); JORDAN (73%); IRAN (69%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); WEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (74%); YUNNAN, CHINA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); MASHHAD, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (69%); AMMAN, JORDAN (68%); TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); CANADA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); JORDAN (73%); IRAN (69%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); WEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (74%); YUNNAN, CHINA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); MASHHAD, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (69%); AMMAN, JORDAN (68%); TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; URBAN AREAS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (77%); CULTS & SECTS (76%); CLASSICS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); FUNDAMENTALISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



664 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Y2K/PULSE;
For Worriers, Winding Down On Year 2000

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
They have devoted months and sometimes years to raising consciousness about potential Year 2000 computer disruptions. Now, many of the most prominent worriers are folding their tents.
Jay Golter and his fellow advocates at the Northern Virginia Year 2000 Community Action Group wrapped up their group efforts with a "New Year's Eve" party on Dec. 18. 
 Peter de Jager, the Canadian programmer who became a Year 2000 Paul Revere in 1993, said he would be on the interview circuit through next weekend. But Year2000.com, the popular Internet site he set up with the Tenagra Corporation, is already on the auction block at eBay.com.
"The crusade part of this is just about over," said Edward Yardeni, a Wall Street economist who still believes there is a 70 percent chance that Year 2000 breakdowns will usher in a worldwide recession. "Now it's just a matter of what happens. There's no point in being alarmist anymore."
Apparently, though, it is time to send in the clowns. As the rollover approaches, enough people are paying attention for comedians to shift into full gear. Mr. de Jager can hope the rising urge to laugh at Year 2000 may help sales of one of his sideline ventures, a Year 2000 cartoon book called "The Bug Stops Here."
But the field is getting crowded, mostly with survival tips that run the gamut from wry to lewd.
The Onion, a Madison, Wis., satirical newspaper, suggested, among other things, in its Dec. 15 issue: "Develop the ability to convert sunlight into energy using the chlorophyll in your body." The paper, viewable at www.onion.com, also advises: "If disaster strikes, it's God's wrath -- quote the Old Testament. But if nothing happens, God is merciful -- quote the New Testament."
Euro RSCG/DSW Partners, a Salt Lake City-based advertising firm that is a unit of Havas Advertising, has been distributing "31 Ways to Prepare for Y2K", a December calendar pamphlet with one suggestion a day. For Dec. 11, the suggestion was "Have plenty of clean towels. It's not specific to any millennial disaster but when have you ever not needed clean towels?"
A week later, DSW suggested collecting spoons because, "Right now spoons are everywhere but after January 1, who knows?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HADV (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (53%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (53%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (90%); MILLENNIUM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; GOLTER, JAY; DE JAGER, PETER PETER DE JAGER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



665 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Technology Bankers Work To Give Merrill A Silicon Shine

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
WHEN the Goldman Sachs Group and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter announced upbeat earnings news last week, a cheer could be heard in Silicon Valley. There, both Wall Street investment banks have flourished, riding the wave of dot-com companies that have enriched themselves by offering shares to a rapacious public or selling out to each other.
But in recent years, another big Wall Street name has been conspicuously scarce in the Silicon Valley gold rush: Merrill Lynch. The firm's sideline status has been puzzling, given that as much as one-quarter of the revenue generated by investment banking departments these days comes from advising technology companies on mergers and public stock offerings. 
 So why has Merrill largely missed out on technology bankers' big bull market?
To hear Merrill Lynch explain it, the firm has not missed out at all; it simply got a late start. Tom Davis, executive vice president of Merrill's corporate and institutional client group, said the company was only three years into a multiyear effort to expand its technology presence worldwide.
"We are at the beginning of what is a long secular shift in the economy," Mr. Davis said. Of Merrill's strategy, in particular, he said, "I think we are at the early stage of this game."
Of course, technology executives have heard that before. When Merrill set up an office in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1996, it was the third attempt to crack Silicon Valley's clubby community, after abortive efforts in the 1980's and early 1990's. Mr. Davis said the company had been too busy expanding other departments to focus much on technology in those days.
Given its relatively late start, Merrill has made a respectable showing this year. According to Thomson Financial/Securities Data, Merrill ranked fourth in taking new technology companies public in 1999, as measured by the amount of money raised. That is a far cry from 1997, when it did not even rank among the top 20.
Merrill's total of $2.2 billion in technology underwriting this year, as calculated by Thomson, gave the firm a market share of 7.8 percent through Dec. 22. Those numbers do not tell the full story, though. That is still only about half the market share of more influential rivals like Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse First Boston and Goldman Sachs -- which rank first, second and third, respectively, in Thomson's lineup.
And with the exception of the Internet Capital Group, a Merrill loyalist that invests in Internet concerns and which Merrill took public in August, Merrill has yet to attract the roster of superstar companies that their larger competitors have.
Investors in Goldman and Morgan have been handsomely rewarded this year, in part, because of their prowess in the technology sector. Goldman's share price is up 53 percent since the firm went public in May; Morgan's is up 85 percent for the year. Merrill's share price, though, is up only 17 percent.
"It is not clear to me that they are going to make strides quickly enough," Steven Galbraith, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said of Merrill. The concern, Mr. Galbraith said, is that by the time Merrill might catch up in technology, the market will have moved on to the next hot sector.
Some analysts have said that when merger talks between Merrill and the technology investment boutique Hambrecht & Quist broke down two years ago, Merrill missed a ripe opportunity to increase its presence in technology underwriting.
Merrill suffered blows, too, with the loss of high-profile executives like its president, Herbert M. Allison Jr., a favorite in Silicon Valley who left the firm earlier this year and joined the ranks of political fundraisers, and, more recently, Scott Ryles, head of technology investment banking, who had helped build that practice. Mr. Ryles left last month to become chief executive of a new online investment bank backed by Charles Schwab.
What is more, Merrill has not been a believer in the "star system," Mr. Galbraith said. Having a name-brand stock picker, like Mary Meeker, the celebrated Morgan Stanley analyst who helped put that Internet practice on the map, is essential, he argues.
On that count, though, Merrill may now be trying to cultivate a rising star. In February, it hired a 33-year-old CIBC Oppenheimer analyst, Henry Blodget, who went way out on a limb last year by predicting that Amazon.com would hit $400 a share -- a target the stock not only reached but surpassed. Hiring Mr. Blodget, who has quickly gained a Silicon Valley following, is simply one indication of the way Merrill Lynch has expanded its technology research effort, said Steve Milunovich, the firm's global team coordinator for technology research.
"I'm a big believer that changing perception is hard," Mr. Milunovich said. "Our perception is probably better outside the valley than in the valley."
Certainly, Merrill's perception problem was not helped by comments one of its top executives made about the Internet last year. A Merrill vice chairman, John Steffens, was criticized after newspapers quoted him as saying that online trading was akin to gambling and a "serious threat to Americans' financial lives." Some in Silicon Valley took umbrage, suggesting that if Merrill did not understand the impact of the Internet on its own business, how could it understand theirs?
When Mr. Steffens, who is known as Launny, subsequently began extolling the Internet, the perception that he was scrambling to recover from a faux pas only seemed to make matters worse.
Mr. Davis said that Merrill had not lost a piece of business because of Mr. Steffens's comments. But others at the firm wonder how much potential business landed elsewhere. "We got tarred for that," Mr. Milunovich said. "There's no question that Launny's comments hurt."
One of Merrill's best technology credentials has been serving as a mergers-and-acquisitions banker to the networking giant Cisco Systems. Merrill got the job because it is one of Cisco's largest equipment customers. Cisco has an in-house team that does most of the heavy lifting on its transactions, but Merrill has retained the client on merit.
"They do a nice job and we've been pleased with the level of service," said Mike Volpi, Cisco's senior vice president for business development.
Still, Merrill's career as a merger adviser has hit some snags. Merrill had a very close relationship with the At Home Corporation, a provider of high-speed Internet service for cable television subscribers. Merrill had helped take At Home public and arranged for subsequent financings. So it was not surprising the firm was tapped to advise At Home on its $6.7 billion stock-swap merger in January with Excite Inc.
But the night before the Excite@Home merger was to be announced, executives at Excite noticed a problem: the total that At Home would pay in stock was lower than the agreed-to price. In effect, a miscalculation had been made in the documents, and At Home's board of directors had to be reconvened to vote again on the correct amount, according to George Bell, president of Excite@Home and the former chief executive of Excite.
"We were up until 4:30 a.m., they fixed it, and we announced that morning," Mr. Bell said. "Because it wasn't our company, I can't say it was the bankers' fault."
Whoever was to blame, industry executives say such last-minute mishaps are rare.
Thomas Jermoluk, who had been At Home's chief executive, could not be reached for comment. But people involved in those talks say he and executives from the AT&T Corporation, which owned a large stake of At Home, were enraged at the time. And when the merged Excite@Home, led by Mr. Jermoluk, announced its acquisition of BlueMountain.com recently, it was not Merrill that was hired to advise on the deal.
Mark Shafir, who is in charge of Merrill's technology merger department in San Francisco, was hard pressed to comment on the mixup with Excite and At Home except to say the terms were "discussed and vetted" with executives and their lawyers. "Unfortunately, there must have been some misunderstanding," he said.
If the technology boom continues, as many analysts expect, Merrill may now bear watching. Executives there say that the firm's technology effort for the first time has the full backing of Merrill's management. And if the company can transform indeed itself into the stock-offering powerhouse that it is in other industries, the next few years could improve Merrill's standing in Silicon Valley.
"Perception," Mr. Davis said, "lags reality."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "One Bull That Is Not Stampeding"
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's stock has soared this year, as has Goldman Sachs since going public in May. But in a great year for the markets, Merrill Lynch's performance has been rather ordinary.
 
Graph shows daily closing stock prices from Jan.-Dec. for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (Year to date: +85.2%); Merrill Lynch (Year to date: +17.2%); and Goldman Sachs (Year to date: +52.8%)(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); MS (NYSE) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); ICGE (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC; MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON CORP GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (81%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); ICG GROUP INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC; MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



666 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
The government will take a second look at a patent it issued for a Year 2000 software program.

BYLINE: By Teresa Riordan 

 BODY:
COMPANIES that are dreading possible Year 2000 computer problems may have one less thing to worry about.
Last Tuesday, the United States Patents Commissioner took a first step toward revoking a controversial patent, which some fear would entitle its inventor to millions, perhaps billions, of dollars in royalties on a technology that underlies many Year 2000 computer fixes. 
 It is highly unusual for a patents commissioner to order the re-examination of a patent, but such an action usually results in the patent being revoked.
The move by the Patents Commissioner, Q. Todd Dickinson, was widely praised. "Commissioner Dickinson has made a courageous decision here," said Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America.
The patent under re-examination covers "windowing," a popular quick-fix technique that can help software to make an educated guess about whether a two-digit date is meant to indicate the 20th century or the 21st century. The approach may enable a computer to avert the so-called millennium bug, in which computers that have not been fixed may read the year date "00" as 1900 or not recognize it at all, resulting in potential problems.
The inventor, Bruce Dickens of Irvine, Calif., bought the rights to patent 5,806,063 for $10,000 in April from his employer, McDonnell Douglas, now owned by Boeing. The patent had been granted in 1998, but the company had never made wide use of the technique.
"I don't think Mr. Dickens is a malicious individual trying to pull a fast one -- he probably thinks this is an original idea," Mr. Miller said. "But every indication is that windowing has been around for years and maybe decades. We find the idea of patenting it laughable."
Mr. Dickens's newly formed company, Dickens2000, has sent out hundreds of letters to large companies seeking first-year royalty payments of $25,000 for every $1 billion in a company's annual revenue. For companies that did not sign up until after Jan. 1, the rate would rise to $2.5 million for every $1 billion in revenue.
William Cray, Mr. Dickens's lawyer, said that his client had signed up some licensees, which he declined to name. Mr. Dickens "welcomes the opportunity to have the Patent Office reconsider the patent," Mr. Cray said. "He believes it's distinguishable from other prior art and feels this will enable him to clarify his patent."
Gregory Aharonian, who publishes a patent news service on the Internet and is a frequent critic of the Patent and Trademark Office, said the Dickens patent was just one of many software patents that are dubious because they do not cite "prior art" -- inventions that are similar in nature to the one claimed in a patent application.
"In general, the P.T.O. has done an atrocious job searching out the prior art for the dozens of Y2K patents that have issued," Mr. Aharonian wrote in one of his Internet Patent News dispatches last week. "Frankly, if it is going to re-examine the Dickens patent, it might as well re-examine all the Y2K patents."
But Robert Merges, a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley, was encouraged by what has happened in the case of the Dickens patent. In recent years, he said, there has been much debate about whether software should be patentable at all.
"Now that software is, beyond all doubt, patentable, we need to start weeding out the good inventions from the bad ones," he said.
An efficient way to do that is through the Internet, Mr. Merges said. Mr. Dickens's patent generated discussion on the Web, with several sites (among them, Mr. Miller's association at www.itaa.org) posting numerous examples of pertinent prior art.
"The far-flung contributors to this discussion have a great deal of collective power," Mr. Merges said. "By pulling together what might have been isolated references -- a trade journal story here, a technical paper there, an old software program sold on the market years ago, even unpublished university or corporate research -- they can assemble formidable collections of prior art."
This prior art, in turn, can be used to invalidate bad software patents and thus prevent holders of dubious patents from shaking down companies for undeserved royalties, Mr. Merges said.
But what if this type of prior-art policing does not work and technological innovation starts sinking in a quicksand of patent litigation?
Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, said that some kind of prescriptive legislation might be in order.
"This is going to be one of the most vexing issues facing Congress this year and in the next few years," Senator Schumer said. "As a country, we value intellectual property rights. But the recent expansion of what is patentable could have a detrimental effect on the technological expansion of our economy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Q. Todd Dickinson, the Patents Commissioner, ordered a review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE BOEING CO (54%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%); INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); INVENTIONS AND PATENTS YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (92%); PATENTS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PATENT INVALIDATION & REVOCATION (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); PRIOR ART (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAWYERS (61%); COMPANY REVENUES (61%); 

PERSON: RIORDAN, TERESA; DICKENS, BRUCE; DICKINSON, Q TODD ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



667 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Agency Is Bringing Timor Online (Horsemen in Mongolia, as Well)

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Dec. 26

 BODY:
With a legacy of violence and a quarter-century of repressive Indonesian rule, East Timor lacks almost all the essentials: adequate drinking water, health care, a working educational system.
To that litany of need, add a contemporary essential: Internet access. 
 So while aid workers help East Timor's people build an economy and government from the ruins of the province, the United Nations Development Program this month dispatched an official from Malaysia to bring the World Wide Web to the capital, Dili, and to begin drafting blueprints for the kind of national data network that is fast becoming vital to participation in the new information economy.
"The network is the key," said Gabriel Accascina, manager of the United Nations Development Program's Asia-Pacific Development Information Program, who visited East Timor this month. "It's the one enabling factor today that is basically changing the way people think, changing the way governments operate and giving opportunities that weren't there before."
For the Timorese, the information superhighway so often cited in technologically advanced places was a distant bit of geography early in September, when pro-Indonesian militias responded to an Aug. 30 vote for independence by laying waste to the territory. Now, everything -- the buildings, the port, the civil administration and the schools -- must be rebuilt, a task being overseen by the United Nations transitional administration in East Timor.
The process could take take two or three years. While it is going on, a nation is to be created using the Internet as one of its building blocks -- something of a first.
Mr. Accascina said the initial step was to establish an Internet connection from Dili via satellite to Singapore, giving the United Nations staff reliable access to e-mail service. The next task, he said, would be to import the computer equipment needed to develop the first Web site operating from East Timor.
The United Nations created the Asia-Pacific Development Information Program in 1997 to foster the use of information technology for social and economic development. From its headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, the program tries to help Asian governments and community groups develop their own information structures and adopt the policies and legislation for entering the electronic marketplace.
There is a lot of work to do. Though Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong compete with each other as centers of Internet innovation, most of Asia still lacks either the telephone lines or the computers needed to get online. Only eight of every 1,000 Asians outside Japan use the Internet, according to estimates by the International Data Corporation, compared with 320 of every 1,000 Americans.
"In countries like India and China, people can't afford to go online, and the geography makes laying down the infrastructure a pain," said Pete Hitchen, an International Data analyst in Singapore. Other obstacles abound. "There's regulation, there's infrastructure, there's language, there's a cultural thing as well," he said.
Giving destitute countries the ability to tap into the Internet's American-style tumult may seem of dubious benefit. But Mr. Accascina says that Net access is an urgent priority in a continent that is home to nearly three quarters of the world's poor. Not only does the Internet create the potential for long-distance education and medical help, it enables producers in remote areas to offer goods and services on the global market, providing them a louder voice.
Mr. Accascina, a 46-year-old Sicilian, followed a zigzag path to his role as the United Nations Development Program's high-technology missionary. The son of an engineer and a lawyer, and a certified pilot, he worked for the World Health Organization in India in the late 1970's. In the mid-1980's, Mr. Accascina went to California. He worked briefly for Microsoft, set up his own computer consulting firm and developed an interest in digital video. A software project for Unicef turned into a full-time job shooting a documentary in Albania, and in 1994 a stint in Fiji. In 1996, he joined the United Nations Development Program.
The world organization, he said, hopes to eventually hand over to an East Timor government a fiber optic digital network that merges voice telephone calls with data transmissions. "This will be a great opportunity to leapfrog technology," he said.
And although East Timor's homes and buildings were largely destroyed, Mr. Accascina said the militias left a surprising degree of infrastructure intact. Dili's power plant was torched, but electricity has been restored, he said. The cellular phone network seems to be operating. Attempts to burn down Dili's technical institute also failed, Mr. Accascina said, leaving behind laboratories and classrooms that he hopes will soon house an academy to train networking engineers -- part of a program that the Asia-Pacific Development Information Program began in August with Cisco Systems.
The East Timor project is one of several by the agency that have started to bring the computer age to remote populations. In October, it helped set up the first Internet connection on Tuvalu, a self-governing atoll in the South Pacific. In June, workers from the United Nations Development Program helped establish the first Internet service in Bhutan, just as the Himalayan nation got its first television station.
"For a landlocked country, information is a good commodity," said Henrik Holde at the development program's office in the capital, Thimphu, where efforts are under way to set up an Internet cafe.
With per-capita incomes in the $400 range, few Bhutanese can afford Internet access, much less a personal computer. But by using microwave signals to carry the Internet to community centers in villages separated by mountains, Mr. Holde says health workers can take advantage of information on disease, and rice farmers can get better information on prices in India and Bangladesh.
In contrast, Mongolia's people are spread over a largely flat area almost as big as Alaska, and most Mongolians live as nomadic herders. But thanks to heavy subsidies from the old Soviet Union, more than four of five Mongolians can read; periodically horsemen ride into a town to sell their meat and read newspapers flown in from the capital, says Atsushi Yamanaka, information and communications technology officer at the United Nations Development Program in Ulan Bator. The flights ended with the fall of Communism, so the United Nations has helped establish community e-mail centers for the newspapers to be downloaded and printed out.
Borderless communications is already paying off in India, with an increasing number of Western companies moving some back-office and data-processing functions there to cut costs or offer round-the-clock services, said Mark Leigh, president of business communications systems at Lucent Technologies in Singapore. GE Capital International Services, for example, performs some transaction processing outside New Delhi and Swissair, British Airways and Lufthansa have moved some data processing to Bombay.
Still, there are those who doubt whether access to the global network will really benefit people who have yet to own a telephone and whose craftsmanship, however considerable, has not prepared them for the vexations of troubleshooting the personal computer. Realities like these have stymied past efforts in Africa and Latin America.
Internet advocates reply that failure to set up networks for the poorest countries only keeps them poor. "You can't exclude these countries just because they're backwaters," Mr. Hitchen of the International Data Corporation said. "The Internet is becoming so important on a basic economic level you have to start looking at Internet adoption as a measure of development like you would televisions and telephones."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United Nations' information program chief in East Timor, Gabriel Accascina, by a satellite dish. His first priority is e-mail access. (Gabriel Accascina) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (61%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); 

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (95%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); MONGOLIA (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (61%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS MISSION OF SUPPORT IN EAST TIMOR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS MISSION OF SUPPORT IN EAST TIMOR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; TIMOR-LESTE (95%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); MONGOLIA (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FIBER OPTICS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FIBER OPTICS (74%); TRENDS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; ACCASCINA, GABRIEL GABRIEL ACCASCINA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



668 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Many Year 2000 Worriers Starting to Close Up Shop
After devoting months and sometimes years to raising consciousness about potential Year 2000 disruptions, many prominent worriers are folding up their tents. For example, Peter de Jager, the Canadian programmer who became a Year 2000 Paul Revere in 1993, has put Year2000.com, the popular Internet site he created, up for sale at eBay.com.
"The crusade part of this is just about over," said Edward Yardeni, a Wall Street economist who still thinks there is a 70 percent chance that Year 2000 breakdowns will usher in a worldwide recession. "Now it's just a matter of what happens. There's no point in being alarmist anymore." Page C4. 

More Moves Seen for 'This Week'
Inside ABC News, staff members viewed last week's dismissal of William Kristol, the conservative commentator, as perhaps only an initial move in what most conclude is a long overdue reshaping of the network's faltering Sunday morning discussion program, "This Week." David Westin, above, the president of ABC News, removed the show's longtime executive producer in September. But ratings have continued to decline, and many producers and correspondents at the network think the main problem is the absence of a single anchor. C8.
 
Web Retailers Discover Warranties
Until recently, online buyers were spared the hard sell for extended service warranties. Now, retailers are looking more closely at warranty options. Not only can extended warranties generate more profit than the products they cover, but they give online merchants the chance to bolster what has generally been an anemic record of post-sale support. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.
 
U.N. Helps to Wire East Timor
While aid workers help East Timor's people build an economy and government from the ruins of the province, the United Nations Development Program sent an official to bring the World Wide Web to the capital and to begin designing the kind of national data network that is fast becoming vital to participation in the new information economy. C2.
 
TV Station Adopts Web Format
A cable television channel in Canada is trying to blur the lines between TV and the Internet. Its news screen has seven different fields of information, including stock prices, weather updates, headline news and a rotating selection of shots of area roads so that people can check traffic conditions. The idea is to provide information quickly, and so far the format seems to be successful in attracting viewers. C8.
 
Publisher in Israel Is Indicted
In the latest development in a circulation war gone wild, a newspaper publisher in Israel, Ofer Nimrodi, was indicted on charges of trying to arrange the murder of a witness against him in a wiretapping scandal. C2.
 
Dream of Convergence Dies Hard
Americans have traditionally shunned devices that combined too many functions or inappropriately matched them into one unit. That has been especially notable this holiday season as consumers snapped up record numbers of specialized electronic devices, from digital cameras to electronic organizers. But that has not stymied the idea of converging personal computers, television and the Web. Industry View. C3.
 
U.S. Financial Markets Reopen
United States financial markets, which were closed on Friday in observance of Christmas, will reopen today. Some foreign markets are closed today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo; Drawing
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 11,405.76 up 148.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.49% up 0.12
The euro -- $1.0136 up 0.0054
The dollar -- 102.12 yen down 1.15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (91%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); WIRETAPPING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



669 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Nevada Considers Ban On Some Slot Themes

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS

 BODY:
Instead of lemons, cherries and black bars, a new slot machine sports characters from the popular television show "South Park." Another shows clips of "The Three Stooges" and lures gamblers with the sound of Curly's trademark "Nyuk, nyuk, nyuk." Other machines feature Betty Boop, the Addams Family, the Pink Panther and the Munsters.
Slot machine makers are turning to popular themes to make betting more entertaining and appealing for those who are not dedicated gamblers. The trend worries regulators and critics, who say that these new machines could appeal to children, worsening the national problem of underage gambling. 
 The Nevada Gaming Control Board is drafting rules that would ban cartoon, comic book other themes based on material "primarily" intended for children. What happens in Nevada is expected to influence other states, like New Jersey.
"There are a myriad of themes that these games can be based on other than Saturday morning cartoon characters," said Steve DuCharme, chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board.
Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential aspirant, said earlier this month that the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Technology, which he heads, will investigate the issue. He wrote a letter to the Federal Trade Commission asking for assistance in the inquiry.
Gambling industry executives say the new machines are intended to appeal not to children but to nostalgic adults. And in any case, they add, children are not allowed to use slot machines. But in Nevada, slot machines are allowed at airports, supermarkets, convenience stores and restaurants, and critics say that children can be exposed to them there, as well as when they walk through casinos with adults. In addition, a Supreme Court decision earlier this year lifted a ban against gambling advertisements on television.
Using its existing power, the Nevada agency has already informally rejected the "South Park" slot machine and a proposed one based on Spider-Man, Mr. DuCharme said. The commission also blocked a game called "Easy Street" that features a display that looks like the board game "Candyland." The manufacturer, Casino Data Systems, says any similarity was unintentional.
Opponents draw parallels between the "slots for tots" controversy and the battle over Joe Camel, the cartoon character dropped by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco in 1997 after charges that it lured children to smoke.
A coalition of gambling opponents sent a letter last month to the House and Senate commerce committees, warning, "These child-enticing slot machines are the latest innovation in a broader advertising and marketing campaign by casinos and the gambling industry to promote a 'family friendly' image and, apparently, to bring children to the casinos and thereby shape the next generation of gambling addicts."
Kay James, chairwoman of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, and three other members were among the signers. Chartered by Congress to study the social and economic impacts of gambling, the commission concluded in June that as many as 1.1 million adolescents are pathological gamblers.
Many in the business say that these concerns are overblown and that there is no evidence the new machines are attracting children. "The presence of a slot machine that has a cartoon character on it is not the reason someone under 21 is trying to get into a casino," said Philip G. Satre, chairman of Harrah's Entertainment, a casino chain. Peer pressure is the main factor, he said.
Manufacturers say that unlike cigarettes, slot machines are rarely advertised. Moreover, there is no point developing machines for children, who are not allowed to gamble.
"Why would we invest a million dollars in a game that has no return?" said Ed Rogich, vice president for marketing at International Game Technology, which developed the South Park machine and several others at issue. "We're not looking at a five-year plan," he added. "The game lives or dies in the first two weeks it's on the floor."
Slot machine manufacturers say that children can be exposed to gambling in many other ways. Toys "R" Us advertises a toy slot machine on its Web site for children 6 and older. And the commission report indicates that much of underage gambling consists of card games, lotteries and sports betting, not casino play.
Still, casino executives are worried that the controversy provides an easy target for gambling opponents.
"We don't need a Joe Camel," said Mike Sloan, a vice president of the Mandalay Resort Group. Station Casinos Inc. last month removed Shuffle Master Inc.'s Three Stooges and Alliance Gaming Corporation's Betty Boop machines because of the controversy and because they were not attracting enough business.
The issue is sensitive for casinos because many -- especially in Las Vegas -- are trying to change from betting parlors into full-fledged resorts providing entertainment for the entire family.
Generally, regulators say, the casinos here do prevent those younger than 21 from gambling, although there have been lapses. The Las Vegas Hilton was fined $350,000 last year because children waiting in line for its "Star Trek" ride were found in the casino and seen gambling. In Atlantic City, 36,441 minors were escorted out of casinos last year, though fewer than 400 were caught gambling, according to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.
There are now an estimated 190,000 slot machines in Nevada and nearly 450,000 in the United States, according to Bear, Stearns & Company. The machines now account for about three-quarters of casino gambling revenue, having largely displaced table games.
Efforts of casinos to attract a broader audience have put pressure on slot machine makers to produce machines that are more entertaining, with familiar characters and high-quality sound and images.
The wave of themed slot machines began with the "Wheel of Fortune" machine introduced in 1993 by International Game Technology and Anchor Gaming. WMS Industries has done very well with a machine based on the game Monopoly.
Computer technology has transformed slot machines into video games with images of spinning reels rather than mechanical ones. This allows a cherry to turn into a smiling face or the reels to fade out altogether and as a new image is shown.
Instead of paying out when the proper symbols appear on a single line, the video machines reward players when the proper combination appears on any of nine lines. Players "win" on as many as half their spins, though often the winnings are less than the amount bet. The casino ultimately holds on to the same percentage of the money bet as with older machines, but people tend to play longer in the belief that they are winning, Mr. Verner said.
One reason slot machine manufacturers strive for hits is that it gives them more leverage to demand a share of the winnings, rather than just selling the machine outright. This raises profits for the machine manufacturers at the expense of the casinos, which tried unsuccessfully this year to get the Nevada legislature to outlaw such arrangements.
When they share in the winnings, slot machine manufacturers have an incentive to advertise their machines to the public. International Game Technology, for instance, has advertised its Wheel of Fortune game on Nevada television.
Gaming Control Board members say they want a regulation in part so that companies will not spend hundreds of thousands of dollars developing a game only to see it rejected. And the industry is warming up to state regulation in part to stave off any Federal investigation.
But this is uncharted territory for the regulators. "What we've always looked at historically are the guts of the device and how it functions," said Dennis K. Neilander, a member of the three-person board. "We've never really been faced with a question of a theme and whether it's appropriate or not."
Drawing distinctions between Monopoly and the Three Stooges or the Pink Panther and a pink elephant may be difficult. The rules also must not infringe on rights of free speech.
Under the latest draft of the regulations, decisions would be based on the rating of the television show, movie or game on which a machine is based. The South Park slot machine might be acceptable because the TV show is rated for mature audiences. The latest draft would also allow themes from shows that are more than 21 years old, like the Pink Panther. But regulators could still ban any machine if they decided it was based on a product that is "currently and primarily intended, marketed and used" by people under 21. The board hopes to complete the regulation in January. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (98%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEVADA GAMING CONTROL BOARD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEVADA GAMING CONTROL BOARD FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; UNITED STATES (98%); NEVADA, USA (98%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH GAMING (91%); CHILDREN (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (90%); COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); BOARD GAMES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); APPEALS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW JOHN MCCAIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



670 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
When Blaming The System Fails the Pupils

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
IF the New York City school system were a patient racing from one highly recommended doctor to another without ever getting better, someone might finally say, "Hey, wait a minute. Maybe the diagnosis is wrong here."
The prevailing diagnosis of what ails the city school system is the system. 
 It's too large. It's disjointed. It's unaccountable. The mayor needs more control. The Board of Education is undistinguished. Its bureaucracy is too large. The teachers union is too powerful.
All true. But we are not alone. Leaders of urban school districts across the country last an average of two and a half years.
Other cities have different systems and mayors with different powers, and most of their problems resemble New York's.
So perhaps it is not just the system. Perhaps something else topples decent, committed educators like Joseph Fernandez, Ray Cortines and Rudy Crew.
Perhaps the systemic flaws are symptoms of something more fundamental.
The signs all point in the same direction, to economic and social realities that are too uncomfortable to face head on. We have yet to confront the consequences of the middle class's flight from public schools.
The children in our schools are now overwhelmingly black and Hispanic. Many of their parents work two and three jobs. Most don't have time to apply political pressure on the schools and the mayor. They are not organized to sway elections. They lack the money to buy political access and influence with campaign contributions.
The powerful people in New York and other cities -- politicians, business executives and, yes, journalists -- do not send their children to public schools. That has a profound impact. Would New Yorkers who can pick up the phone and get through to City Hall, literally, put up with leaking roofs, computerless classrooms, revolving chancellors? Never.
Elected officials respond to power and influence, and the parents of our schoolchildren don't have enough of either. "Decentralization" was no solution. The only remaining hope is that economic necessity will force the power elite to care about schools their children no longer attend: the realization that only a well-educated work force will keep our country competitive.
And that leads to the most fundamental problem: we have not yet figured out how best to educate largely poor children who are often less prepared and less motivated than students in past generations.
RIGHT now, reform around the country centers on setting impossibly high standards, putting an obsessive emphasis on test results and criticizing teachers and administrators for not achieving great results overnight. Even some teachers cheat. Students still fail.
More and more educators are beginning to acknowledge that programming millions of children for failure by setting a single standard for all makes no sense. They want to reform the reform by phasing in higher standards gradually, and recognizing that it will take more than raising the bar high to get all students over.
It will take more intensive instruction and more preschool classes. It will require longer school days, the year round, to ensure smaller classes. It will take greater resources, especially to pay teachers more. It will take what Dr. Crew and others have instituted -- mandatory summer school.
Some of these sensible things are happening, but they are overshadowed by the mania for test scores and national standards and the persistent search for alternatives to public education. If we had figured out how to educate children in public schools, it's hard to believe that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani would have succumbed to political pressure to experiment with vouchers. It was a defensive political move that precipitated the breach with Dr. Crew.
The city's second black chancellor saw the mayor's proposal as a betrayal of public education, particularly the mission of educating black and Hispanic children. At every turn, the controversy comes back to the same issue -- finding effective and realistic ways to educate today's students.
Yes, it makes no sense to have six politicians appointing the seven members of the Board of Education. We need direct accountability and more distinguished board members. Let's give the mayor officially what he already has unofficially -- direct control over the system so that he has to take direct responsibility for its failings. Let's weaken more of the union-driven rules that protect mediocrity.
But here is a New Year's prediction: Do all of the above, and the bitter comings and goings of chancellors will continue unless the country acknowledges that it has a problem much more fundamental than the structure of "the system." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MAYORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SCHOOL CHEATING (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE JOSEPH FERNANDEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



671 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Plans for Military Base Divide California County

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif.

 BODY:
Placid sometimes seems too agitated a word for this self-satisfied city of 135,000 in the heart of Orange County.
Irvine is the country's largest master planned community, a city with just the right number of curves in its roads, just the right mix of single-family and multiple-family housing, auto dealers and churches, carved out of strawberry and tomato fields on a billiard-table-smooth parcel of land. It is as calm as Los Angeles, the messy metropolis just to the north, is tumultuous. 
 One of Irvine's few long-term irritants had been the adjacent and enormous El Toro Marine Corps Air Station, where F-18's were screaming reminders of a troubled outside world that many people had moved here to avoid.
So it might have seemed a time for joy when the Pentagon announced a few years ago that, with the end of the cold war, it was going to close the base.
It did not work out that way. The Pentagon's decision has triggered not a celebration but a new kind of cold war that has divided the county, north from south.
The issue is whether to build an international airport on El Toro's 4,738 acres, a plan supported by the older, more ethnically mixed suburbs to the north, or to use the land for parks, schools and other public amenities, as Irvine and the neighboring, mostly new cities to the south are urging.
The base is near the center of the county, but the flight paths, and expected auto traffic, would generally affect the southern end far more. And that has inspired much of the ire. The underlying debate, however, also has a lot to do with the sometimes jarring contrast between the heavily Republican retreat that Orange County was, focused heavily on its quality of life, with the economically booming and increasingly ethnically diverse bastion of the "new economy" that it has become.
The powerful subtext to this battle has left the cities here so bitterly divided that some experts worry the standoff could obstruct efforts to tackle other regional issues, such as affordable housing, transportation and education.
Orange County, which long defined itself as the not-Los Angeles of Southern California, has emerged as a booming high-technology metropolis that, instead of sending commuters out to jobs elsewhere, draws tens of thousands of commuters from surrounding regions.
Also, it has been the destination of so many immigrants that it is on the verge of becoming, like Los Angeles, a place without a white majority, a striking shift from its past as a nearly all-white bedroom community.
For some, the battle over El Toro is as much as anything a highly revealing distraction from the real issues the county must confront.
"The main point is that there's a lot of denial in Orange County about what they're becoming," said Mark Baldassare, a senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California and the author of an annual survey of attitudes in the county and its economy.
"The future of this county does not depend on whether they build this airport," Mr. Baldassare said. "The biggest threat to Orange County's future is the conflict over the airport and what it is doing to the political climate, not the airport itself."
There is a small air facility, John Wayne Airport, at the northern end of the county. It is so limited in its commercial service, however, that most residents must drive to Los Angeles, up to two hours in heavy traffic, to travel.
The prospect of greater convenience has given some momentum to the forces that support an airport at El Toro. Two ballot measures backing an airport have passed, with a third scheduled for this March, even though there is still no detailed proposal or cost estimate.
But the predictable fusillades of litigation have started, and both sides have resolved to fight in court as long as necessary. Irvine's city hall sports a defiant Us versus Them banner that counts the number of days the city has resisted the airport since El Toro was closed in July.
The banner symbolizes the fact that the imaginary wall that had once separated Orange and Los Angeles County, commonly referred to as the "Orange curtain," has effectively moved to the middle of Orange County.
"We could fight this 15, 20, 25 years," said Larry Agran, a member of the Irvine City Council, who argues that the issue is one of common sense, safety and quality of life. "It's a virtual civil war. The county's really coming apart because this has been so sustained."
Of course, many areas of the country have fought over how to use old military bases, and airports have divided communities for decades. But this battle comes in a county that had tried to plan away such problems until it found itself with, effectively, too much of a good thing as its population swelled and its economy boomed.
Elsewhere these battles have frequently turned on concerns over job creation, but neither side here maintains that the vibrant economy needs an airport to grow. The county's unemployment rate has drifted to an almost negligible level of less than 3 percent and it has been generating about 40,000 jobs a year.
"This is not about creating jobs or creating wealth here," conceded Michael Lapin, manager of the county government's pro-airport planning group. "Those are ancillary questions. The issue is demand and quality of life, convenience."
George Argyros, one of the county's wealthiest developers and possibly the airport's most ardent supporter, cast the battle in neo-Marxist terms.
"It's a classic case of class warfare to me," Mr. Argyros said. "The south county is all spanking new and they live behind their guarded gates. It's almost the working people of the north against the haves in the south."
Most southerners reject any suggestion of such snobbism, but they generally agree that they simply do not want their quiet lives disrupted. The southern town of Laguna Woods, for example, a retirement community once known as Leisure World, twice rejected ballot measures to incorporate as a city. The measure finally succeeded this year in part because leaders explained to voters that as a city it could battle the El Toro airport more effectively.
Orange County is the sixth largest county in the country, with about 2.8 million residents. While at one time much of the population commuted to jobs in Los Angeles, only about 14 percent do now, and a larger number commute in from other areas.
The county is about 54 percent white, 30 percent Hispanic and 13 percent Asian-American, with a tiny proportion of African-Americans. But it is estimated that, within a decade or so, the white population will no longer hold a majority.
The biggest changes, though, have been economic. In spite of the county government's nearly forgotten bankruptcy five years ago, the area is choking on the spectacular growth of businesses that often located here because of the pleasant lifestyle.
Some airport opponents claim the north wants to shut down John Wayne Airport and simply transfer the pollution, noise and traffic to the southern end of the county.
Northerners deny this. The county government insists its plan is for two airports, keeping John Wayne open.
The county envisions that the El Toro facility would be phased in gradually, with the capacity reaching nearly 29 million passengers annually around 2020. There has also been a proposal to stop the expansion in 2010, when the capacity would be 18 million passengers per year.
Northerners say neither plan would satisfy the growing demand for air service. Southerners counter that traffic at John Wayne, which operates under tight restrictions, is actually declining. Northerners say that is because fares on the small number of flights are too costly.
Annual passenger traffic at John Wayne Airport dropped to 7.5 million passengers last year from a peak of 7.7 million in 1997. And in the first 10 months of this year it slipped to 6.2 million passengers from 6.3 million in the same period in 1998.
Just the process by which the issue is being decided worries some people because of the way it has invited emotional responses. No company has a greater interest in the battle than the privately held Irvine Company, the largest landowner in the county and the developer of the city of Irvine. The politically influential company has not taken a stance, but it has expressed dismay at this lack of hard facts.
"The way the land-use issue has been approached turned traditional sound planning on its head," said Larry Thomas, the company's senior vice president. "By that I mean, without a detailed strategy, without a detailed economic analysis or specific plan a ballot measure was taken to the people. They voted from their gut. There wasn't a third category people could vote for saying, 'Tell me more about this.' "
The bitterness has left some people fatalistic. Peggy Ducey, the executive director of the Orange County Regional Airport Authority, the body leading the drive, said that if an airport is not built at El Toro, the John Wayne Airport will have to be expanded, but that that, too, would lead to litigation.
Mr. Argyros said: "Eventually there will be a new airport at El Toro. In my mind, it's just a question of the cost to our county."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some Orange County residents are concerned that the dispute over the El Toro air station, above, could hinder efforts to address other issues. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Map of Orange County showing the location of El Toro air station: El Toro air station in Orange County is at the center of a debate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EL TORO WATER DISTRICT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); IRVINE (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; LAND USE POLICIES COLD WAR (90%); AIRPORTS (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); IMMIGRATION (66%); NEW ECONOMY (61%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



672 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3271 words

HEADLINE: Asian Middle Class Alters a Rural Enclave

SERIES: THE NEWCOMERS: Second of three articles -- Suburbia Remade

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: BRIDGEWATER, N.J., Dec. 26

 BODY:
Sachin and Purvi Shah arrived with their infant daughter at Newark International Airport on a crisp day in February as the newest of immigrants from Barooda, India. But instead of heading to Flushing or Jackson Heights, they slid comfortably into a Nissan Quest minivan steered by Mrs. Shah's brother, Kaushal Desai, and rode west on Interstate 78, away from the shrinking Manhattan skyline.
They drove past the older suburbs, beyond the Garden State Parkway, through a blurry montage of wooded valleys and office parks, before reaching this affluent township, some 40 miles from New York City. 
 "I thought New Jersey would be like Manhattan," Mr. Shah, a 31-year-old computer programmer, recalled recently at the new house his family shares with the Desais. "But as we were driving on 78, past all these fields, I asked Kaushal, 'Where are the buildings?' "
All told, it took an hour for the Shahs to achieve what earlier immigrants often could not claim for decades, even generations: middle-class comfort and prosperity in suburban America.
By leapfrogging to the most desirable suburbs, many Asian immigrants are upending stereotypes about new immigrants' being poor and invisible, tethered to ethnic neighborhoods, desperate to wriggle out of the city. Instead, these newcomers are younger and more economically diverse, equipped with graduate degrees and work visas, gifted in science and technology.
Bridgewater, a rambling township of 38,000 with a median household income of $84,000, is no Monterey Park, Calif., where the population is two-thirds Asian-American. Nor is it like Palisades Park, N.J., where Korean-American businesses dominate the downtown. Rather, it is a subtler example of how even the quietest bedroom communities are finding their rhythms jolted by the greatest wave of immigration since the start of the century.
Nowhere has this been more evident than in the southwestern sections of Bridgewater, where in the last decade farms and woods have given way to 3,000 houses in glistening subdivisions. As many as half the residents in some neighborhoods are Asian, led by Indians, Chinese and Filipinos.
During rush hour, people born on the other side of the world line up in gleaming sedans and sport utility vehicles at the intersection of Route 28 and Vanderveer Road, destined for telecommunications, pharmaceutical and computer companies.
At dawn, Chinese grandparents practice qigong breathing exercises on the sidewalks, then tinker with sprinklers as self-appointed lawn tenders. At dusk, families nudge baby strollers past virgin $300,000 houses and converse in their native dialects. There is a new, commodious Hindu temple here, and the local library stocks books in Chinese, Gujarati and other languages.
This does not mean that Bridgewater, once a sleepy, monochromatic Republican enclave, has turned into an oasis of multicultural harmony. The police have recorded more bias incidents, including repeated fires set to a Sikh family's mailbox. Some parents have grumbled about the academic successes of Asian-American students. Old-timers complain about the residential and commercial sprawl that has been stoked, in part, by the new immigrants.
Some natives even seem benumbed that whatever home-field advantage they toiled for years to attain -- in school, at work, in life -- has been erased by upstarts who do not fit the classic immigrant profile.
"The middle-class white enclave is being challenged, and they're afraid of what's going to come in," said Paul Richardson, 40, who grew up in Bridgewater, went away to college, then returned to raise his own children. "I just hope the new people coming in will want to become a part of our culture."
 
Bridgewater Past
From Family Farm To Suburban Lane
Wearing a cherry-colored cap emblazoned with the letter "B," Robert Kiser, a weathered man with fraying copper hair, was trudging through the red shale soil of a treeless housing development under construction when he stopped to point.
Over there, by Route 28, was the endless front yard of his Civil War-era house, where he and his two older brothers used to play football. Over there, closer to the stream, was where schoolchildren once went on hayrides through his fruit farm. But over here, he gestured, was a symbol of the present: a newly paved street named Kiser Lane.
"It's a reminder of how people were uprooted," Mr. Kiser said with a sigh. "Some day, our kids and grandkids can come back and say, 'See, there's our old name.' "
Earlier this year, Mr. Kiser, 49, reluctantly sold his family's 15-acre farm to make way for the 63 houses of the Orchard Meadows subdivision, becoming the latest member of Bridgewater's old, devoted guard to yield, however achingly, to a more developed, more diverse world.
The descendant of Prussian and Danish immigrants, Mr. Kiser grew up in the 1950's and 1960's, when Bridgewater still exuded a soothing, rural rhythm, one first established by Dutch and English settlers in the mid-1700's. As an entrepreneurial eighth grader in 1965, Mr. Kiser started Bob's Fruit Stand on Route 28, selling peaches, pears and apples. He eventually became an engineer, imitating his father and brothers, but kept the stand as a side business.
In those days, residents liked Bridgewater because it was far away, but not too far: an hour's drive to the Jersey shore or the Poconos; an hour's drive to New York or Philadelphia. The widest cultural divide was between those who said stoop, lightning bug and sub (New York) and those who said porch, firefly and hoagie (Philadelphia).
But like much of central New Jersey, Bridgewater began to change in the 1980's, especially after the State Supreme Court, in an effort to promote affordable housing, forced communities to change their zoning to allow clusters of smaller lots. A giant mall, Bridgewater Commons, opened in 1988, becoming the de facto downtown for a 32-square mile township that had never had one. Major corporations like A T & T and Johnson & Johnson opened offices, attracted by the confluence of six highways.
Many residents sold their family homesteads and moved deeper into the countryside, leaving behind only their names: Bertran Drive, Sutton Court, O'Keefe Road. New developments and cul-de-sacs sprouted up, particularly inside a 1,000-acre triangle girdled by Route 28, Milltown Road and Vanderveer Road.
Alarmed by the changes around his farm, Mr. Kiser joined the Save Bridgewater Organization, an anti-development group, in the early 1990's. But earlier this year, Mr. Kiser, his wife, Pam, a 48-year-old teacher, and three teenage sons decided to sell.
"Ultimately, we had to make a decision to make way," he said. "This is the vision for Bridgewater. It has totally changed."
In April, they moved to a new house, only two miles away, still in Bridgewater. Bob's Fruit Stand remains, even though its produce must now be hauled in from out of town, not from across the street. The family remains active in local affairs, particularly youth baseball -- the "B" on Mr. Kiser's cap stands for Bridgewater Baseball.
By agreement with the developers, Mr. Kiser's boyhood home, a white Colonial surrounded by magnolia, elm and maple trees, will remain and be rented out. So, too, will the ranch house occupied by Mr. Kiser's 90-year-old aunt, Constance, whose new address, in a bittersweet touch, will be 4 Kiser Lane.
"This area has undergone such a tremendous transformation in such a compressed amount of time, and it's been a challenge dealing with that," he said. "It'll probably hit home when they finish up, and we meet some of the neighbors."
 
Bridgewater Present
A Thousand Acres, 10,000 Neighbors
On a fall morning, the allegro pace at the Desai and Shah household reached a peak, highlighted by Hindu prayers and the wolfed-down breakfasts of cereal and masalapuri, an Indian snack.
Off went Gati Desai, bundling her two young children to school. Off went Mr. Desai to meet with a computer consulting client in Newark. And down went Mr. Shah to the basement, headquarters of Trinet Solutions, a small computer consulting business the Desais founded three years ago.
Four bedrooms, three small children, two cars, one home-based business: this is the arpeggio of life for the Shahs, who have settled into a comfortable if hectic suburban groove, just 10 months removed from their native state of Gujarat.
The two families regularly inspect crafts fairs and shop for vegetarian groceries in Edison. They worship at either the Swaminaryan temple in Edison or the year-old Sri Venkateswara temple in Bridgewater.
If anything, the Shahs view Bridgewater as a satellite not of New York City, but of Edison, 20 minutes away, with its plethora of ethnic supermarkets and services, primarily for Indian and Chinese immigrants. The Shahs treat New York as a tourist destination. Rockefeller Center, the World Trade Center, the Statue of Liberty? Been there. Jackson Heights? Haven't done that.
"Bridgewater is very peaceful, very clean, very nice," said Mrs. Shah, 28, after attending a free English conversation class for immigrants at the public library here. "We like it very much."
In India, Mr. Shah was a computer programmer, while Mrs. Shah was a microbiologist. But they calculated that America would be better for their careers, and for their daughter, Shaili, 3, especially because the Desais, like many immigrants ensconced in suburbia, were willing to live indefinitely with their newly arrived relatives.
So the Shahs became beneficiaries of changes in immigration law that have lifted restrictions on Asians and other groups, particularly the highly educated and skilled.
Immigrants are still generally settling in the city. But more are heading straight to the suburbs, led by the Asians, according to a new study in the journal Migration World by Ronald J. O. Flores, a sociologist at St. Lawrence University, and A. Peter Lobo and Joseph J. Salvo, demographers with the New York City planning department.
Between 1990 and 1996, 46 percent of Asian immigrants -- including 66 percent of Indians -- settled directly in the suburbs, up from 37 percent the previous six years, the study showed. In that time, Bridgewater absorbed about 1,000 immigrants -- 54 percent of whom were Asians, mostly professionals -- nearly doubling the total between 1983 and 1989, Mr. Lobo said.
For many new immigrants, the suburbs are a symbol of a clean slate, a fresh start. "The more I live here, the more I like it here," said Sharon Wang, 33, a native of China's Hubei province who moved to Bridgewater four years ago with her husband, a statistician, and two sons. "I feel like this is my country. I was born to come here."
Ms. Wang, a librarian, lords over a house filled with plants, a reproduction of Renoir's "Luncheon of the Boating Party" and a glistening Yamaha piano. She invites Chinese neighbors over for dinners of dumplings, bean-thread noodles and squash soup, and an occasional bout of karaoke. She sends her sons to the Huaxia Chinese School, a private weekend school in Hillsborough, to learn Chinese. Her mother, Chai Chunting, is among hundreds of grandparents who shuttle regularly between Asia and Bridgewater.
Ms. Chai, 61, had braced herself at first: she could not speak English, could not drive. But soon, she was playing cards and gossiping with neighbors from all parts of China. She even traveled with other Chinese grandparents to Atlantic City.
"This," Ms. Chai said on a stroll one night, "is like a small Chinese town."
 
The Schools
Where Cultures Mix and Clash
The stage was set, the audience rapt.
Sitting in the middle, sobbing, was a Japanese-American student, played with flair by Chelsey Tanaka. She told her parents that she had been ridiculed by her new classmates for wearing a kimono. Cherish your heritage, said Jessica Tang, the student playing her mother. Ignore the bullies.
Ms. Tanaka's character marched into class the next day and swayed the other students with her brio. "Tolerance means not hating people who are different from you, but still respecting their differences," she said.
The juniors in Will Ferry's advanced placement history class were performing their original skit this June day before a special audience: Scott Petrillo's second-grade class at Bradley Gardens School.
School officials believe it is never too early to teach tolerance. And no institution has been more affected by Bridgewater's churning population than the schools, which have the potential to become a model United Nations -- or a multicultural tinderbox.
The Asian population here has climbed to perhaps 10 percent from 1 percent in 1980. In the school district, which includes the tiny, middle-class borough of Raritan, almost 10 percent of the students are not native speakers of English. The 41 languages represented include 11 from the Indian subcontinent and 4 from China and Taiwan, said Stephen L. Sokolow, the superintendent of schools.
At Bridgewater-Raritan High School, where one-quarter of the students are minorities, the Asian population is 13.9 percent, up from 3.7 in 1988. At Van Holten Elementary School in southwestern Bridgewater, the Asian population is 22.2 percent, up from 14.2 percent only two years ago.
And yet, so far, most students, whether they have lived here all their lives or have just arrived from abroad, seem to be handling the changes smoothly.
Rob Kiser, Mr. Kiser's middle son, was president of the high school's freshman class last year and said he has no problems with the new diversity. His classmate Yousheng Tang, who lives close to the former Kiser Farm, is just four years removed from a school in Shanghai, but has been trying hard to absorb American pop culture.
At a shade under 6 feet in cleats, and 150 pounds, Yousheng was a reserve tight end on the sophomore football team, one of two Asian-Americans on the Panthers. "He likes it, so we support him," said Tom Tang, his father, a computer programmer at A T & T.
If anything, it is the parents who are struggling with the notion of a multicultural school system. Some Asian-Americans are excelling academically; about half the seniors in the top 5 percent are Asian-American. And so are a quarter to a third of the students in a program that separates the highest-scoring elementary school students from the rest of their age group.
But some parents have criticized the program as being too competitive and top-heavy with Asian-Americans. They have suggested it fosters elitism at an early age.
The whispers have not escaped the immigrants' ears. "Sometimes, people say, 'You Chinese guys are smart. You have well-paid jobs,' " said Sharon Wang, whose older son is enrolled in the program. "You can feel it. It's some sour grapes."
 
Civic Life
Growth Concerns, Bias Complaints
On a muggy evening in July, 400 people packed a zoning board meeting, glowering at slide after slide of blueprints, statistics and sketches. One by one, citizens denounced a proposed shopping center on Route 28 called Millbridge Village. There would be too much traffic, they said. Too much disruption.
But something was missing. "I think everyone notices, where are all the Chinese, the Indians?" said Paul Richardson, a Bridgewater native. "You look at that crowd, it looks like Bridgewater from 25 years ago. It's the old guard trying to dig their heels in."
Overdevelopment is the hottest issue in suburbia, as evidenced by Millbridge Village, which was ultimately rejected. But in Bridgewater, where taxes are relatively low, unhappiness about development may be a more complicated issue than in other places.
For older residents, the new developments provoke emotions from envy to acceptance. Mr. Kiser, for one, said he did not begrudge the Asian immigrants their success. But he does sense that the anti-development mood may mask a muted dislike of the newcomers and their unfamiliar customs.
"I think some people are somewhat resentful of some of the foreign people coming in and jumping ahead so quickly," he said.
To improve relations, Mayor James T. Dowden set up a committee this year dedicated to fighting bias. Neighborhoods have organized block parties, while businesses have trumpeted diversity programs.
But there have been more bias incidents recently, ranging from swastika scrawlings to acts of mischief, according to the police. This spring, vandals twice smeared the house of Mahal and Sandhya Mohan, natives of Madras, India, with eggs and toilet paper, and twice set fire to the mailbox of their next-door neighbors, the Singhs, members of a Sikh gurdwara, or temple, here.
Mr. Mohan, a vice president at A T & T, responded to the attacks by installing floodlights and keeping cameras by his bed. He compared the experience to cruising along, then suddenly going off a cliff. "One little incident can do that," he said.
In another case, town officials, prodded by neighbors, have accused an Indian family of illegally operating a temple in their home, complete with a six-foot-high marble statue. A local judge sided with the township in July. The family's appeal is pending.
Apart from these flare-ups, some longtime residents believe that few Chinese and Indian residents care about Bridgewater's civic life. One exception is Michael Hsing, an Internet manager from Taiwan who moved here in 1990.
Like two-thirds of the registered voters affiliated with a party, Mr. Hsing, 44, is a Republican. He was the local party's 1999 campaign treasurer. But he was dispirited when voters narrowly rejected a $22.9 million bond issue this month to expand the high school, which is projected to swell from 1,900 to 2,800 students by 2009. So it is crucial, he said, for more Asian immigrants, citizens or not, to participate in civic life.
"One day, when the community has an issue, people will say, 'Where were you last time?' " he said. "Or even worse, they'll say, 'Who are you?' "
 
Bridgewater Future
Old and New Cope With Change
It was a late-summer afternoon, the light fading, as the steel-wool sky wrung out sheets of rain. Inside his new house, Mr. Kiser sat in the kitchen, cherishing some photographs of the old Kiser Farm -- and thinking about the ones to come from the new Kiser Farm.
After much deliberation, Mr. Kiser and his brothers, Franklin and Bill, decided to buy another farm, one of 103 acres, 18 miles to the west in Hunterdon County.
"You have to change with the changes," he said, noting that about half the houses in Orchard Meadows had been bought by people of Asian descent. "There are a lot of people with foreign backgrounds to make room for."
A few miles away, on a chilly but bright autumn afternoon, the Shahs and the Desais assembled in a guest bedroom and knelt for 10 minutes on the pewter-colored carpeting before a small shrine to three Hindu gods: Swaminarayan the creator, Ganesh, the elephant god of goodness, and Hanuman, the monkey god of religious piety.
In their daily candle-lit prayer, the four adults and three children sang and clapped joyously, then ate almond offerings. "I'm not going to be totally Americanized, but I feel very fortunate to be here," said Mr. Desai, who became an American citizen in August. "In this country, you can do anything."
The Shahs are not sure if they will stay forever. But they are confident that their daughter, Shaili, will benefit from America's technological wonders and Bridgewater's tapestry of new immigrants.
"She can come in," Mr. Shah said, "right from the beginning."
Next: The new immigrants make inroads in New York City politics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gati Desai leading a prayer service in a bedroom of the house her family shares in Bridgewater, N.J. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Jessica Tang, left, and Chelsey Tanaka as mother and daughter in a play about ethnic tolerance, performed for second graders at Bradley Gardens School in Bridgewater. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); From left, Sharon Wang, Susan Lin, a neighbor in Bridgewater, and Ms. Wang's mother, Chai Chunting, prepare a meal of turkey and shrimp steamed with rice. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Yousheng Tang, four years out of a school in Shanghai, is a reserve tight end with the Bridgewater-Raritan Panthers and one of two Asian-Americans on the high school team. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); A procession last summer around the new Sri Venkateswara Hindu temple in Bridgewater. Families can also worship at the Swaminaryan temple in nearby Edison. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; BRIDGEWATER (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ASIAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); BABY PRODUCTS (78%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); SEDANS (77%); MINIVANS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); FAMILY (74%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); CITIES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); LIBRARIES (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W ROBERT KISER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



673 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
Baby Came Early; Aid, Just in Time

BYLINE: By ROBERT WADDELL 

 BODY:
To Luz Estrella, her 6-month-old son, Ariel, means everything. She calls him "the most beautiful boy in the world." And she says no problem can compete with the joy he gives her and her gratitude for his continuing good health.
But with his premature birth on June 12 came financial problems for Ms. Estrella, and feelings of uncertainty about their future. 
 Ms. Estrella, 36, and her son live in a one-bedroom apartment in the west Bronx with parquet floors, a TV usually tuned to Spanish-language stations, and a large stuffed Speedy Gonzalez tossed into a corner. She seems calm now, but earlier this year, she lived in fear of being tossed out into the street.
When Ariel was born three months early, she stopped working because his health was in danger. With big medical bills to pay, she soon fell behind on her $625 monthly rent. Her sister and the baby's father gave her money for necessities. But by the end of August, she had become indebted to her landlord for nearly $2,000, and he took her to court. She was facing eviction and perhaps homelessness, because the few family members in the city had no room to take her in.
"I was desperate," she said. "Where would I go? What will I do?"
She thought of returning to the Dominican Republic, which she left three years earlier, but saw the move as a step backward.
To Ms. Estrella, a new life in America meant economic freedom. She refused to go on public assistance, saying she would rather report to work than report to a social worker. She said she even looked forward to paying income taxes because they symbolized her ability to earn a living.
Ms. Estrella's luck changed when the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, which receives money from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, stepped in to offer help.
Right before her second court appearance in early October, the federation gave her $975 toward her unpaid rent. Then, her family, friends and Ariel's father contributed $1,000. Now, she is nearly caught up.
The money from the Neediest Cases Fund came at the perfect time, she said. To her, it was a practical gift from God.
"And of course God will help, but I had to resolve this problem myself," Ms. Estrella said.
Ms. Estrella hopes to return to her job packing costume jewelry next month. But for now, her son's health and well-being are of paramount importance. She feels fortunate that Ariel's premature birth did not cause any major health complications. Doctors have told her that he will not have any speech impediments and does not have asthma, both of which are risks for premature children, she said. And he's about the right size for a 6-month-old. "He's even a little overweight," she said.
"If there are problems," she said recently as she fed Ariel his first bottle of the day, "there are solutions."
As Ariel, a chubby-cheeked boy dressed in blue and white, ate his breakfast, his eyes fluttered with the attention showered on him by his mother and two guests.
Mother and son cooed at each other. She crinkled her nose, lifted her head and said with a laugh: "He'll be a baseball player with the Yankees. I say this as a joke, but you never know what your children will become."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded: $2,946,057.54
Recorded Thursday: $75,101.00
 
Total: $3,021,158.54
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luz Estrella and her 6-month-old son, Ariel, who was born three months prematurely. The Neediest Cases Fund helped Ms. Estrella avoid eviction. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); EVICTION (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: WADDELL, ROBERT; ESTRELLA, LUZ LUZ ESTRELLA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



674 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Ousted Leader Of Ivory Coast Flees to Togo

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 26

 BODY:
The ousted president of Ivory Coast left the country in a French aircraft today, landed in nearby Togo and may seek asylum in France, the government here said.
Three days of rioting seemed to be coming to an end today as the army established control over the West African country, which until last week was considered one of the most stable, prosperous and democratic on the continent. 
 Residents of Abidjan, the main city, who were unable to finish their Christmas shopping when looting and car hijackings began on Thursday as soldiers held a protest, were back in stores, guarded by soldiers. There were military checkpoints on the thoroughfares, but buses, the main means of transportation for the city's three million people, began running again at dawn.
Nonetheless, a nightly curfew and patrols by soldiers and police officers empowered to shoot anyone on the street after 6 p.m. will continue for the moment, security officials said. The country is being run by a nine-man junta calling itself the National Public Salvation Committee. The commanders of the police, the marines, the paratroops and armored and infantry units took oaths to it on television on Saturday night.
But the real power seems to be Gen. Robert Guei, 58, a former chief of the armed forces. He said today that he would create a government that would include civilians, but did not say when. On Saturday he invited political parties to discuss a unified government.
France and the United States condemned the overthrow of President Henri Konan Bedie, 65, as did Nigeria and South Africa, the two most powerful countries in sub-Saharan Africa. A panel of foreign ministers from the Economic Community of West African States said it would meet soon to discuss the crisis. Ivory Coast is a member of the group, which has intervened in civil wars in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
This is the first coup in Ivory Coast, which is the world's largest producer of cocoa, and which exports palm oil, bananas and other tropical products. The country had a history of stable government. It was ruled by Felix Houphouet-Boigny from independence in 1960 until his death in 1993. Mr. Bedie, of Mr. Houphouet-Boigny's Democratic Party, succeeded him.
General Guei said today that mutineers had overthrown the government because it had been taking political prisoners and showing ethnic intolerance uncharacteristic of Ivorian traditions. But several forces seemed to be at work.
General Guei, a French-trained career officer with a relatively low profile, was himself dismissed as armed forces chief by Mr. Bedie in 1995 after rumors of a coup were circulated. The general has said he was not involved in plotting a coup and was working on his farm when the mutineers asked him to be their spokesman.
The young soldiers who took part along with hooligans in the looting that began on Thursday complained about pay and working conditions.
The government has recently been showing virulent nationalism and a xenophobic attitude toward migrant workers; a third of the 19 million population is from neighboring countries.
More recently, the governing Democratic Party, dominated by members of Mr. Bedie's Baoule ethnic group, has tried to prevent Alassane Ouattara, an International Monetary Fund official who was Mr. Houphouet-Boigny's prime minister, from becoming a candidate in a presidential election next October. Mr. Bedie contended that Mr. Ouattara was a citizen of Burkina Faso and thus ineligible to run.
The government also jailed leaders of Mr. Ouattara's party, the Rally for the Republicans, who were freed by the mutineers.
The new junta has some apparent links to Mr. Ouattara's party. Gen. Lassana Palenfo, another prominent member of the junta, was once Mr. Ouattara's security minister.
The junta expressed satisfaction with the departure of Mr. Bedie under what the French Foreign Ministry described as "safe and dignified circumstances." Mr. Bedie spent two days hiding inside a French military base near the Abidjan airport under the protection of 550 French marines.
Some cabinet ministers are being held by the junta, which said the detention was for their own protection. At least two appeared on television endorsing the coup, one of them surrounded by soldiers.
Mr. Bedie's wife and children were among the entourage of about 12 people allowed to leave with him. He was greeted at the airport in Lome, Togo's capital, by the Togolese president, Gnassingbe Eyadema.
Asked by Agence France-Presse whether Mr. Bedie could end up in France, a spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry here replied that she did not know whether he wanted to come, but "if he wishes to, he has the option of doing so."
On Saturday, France reinforced its garrison with 40 troops from Gabon and positioned 300 more in Senegal to aid in any possible evacuation of the 20,000 or more French citizens in Ivory Coast.
But General Guei refused permission for any more French troops to enter and guaranteed the safety of French citizens and property. He said an increase in troop strength could lead to a bloodbath, but also seemed to fear that France might try to restore Mr. Bedie to power.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The deposed president of Ivory Coast, Henri Konan Bedie. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Paris highlighting Abidjan: Troops in Abidjan restored order after three days of rioting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); TOGO (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (93%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IVORY COAST; SOUTH AFRICA; TOGO; FRANCE; COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); TOGO (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (93%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (91%); COUPS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RIOTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CURFEW (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CARJACKING (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

PERSON: BEDIE, HENRI KONAN (PRES); MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; GUEI, ROBERT (GEN) HENRI KONAN BEDIE (94%); ROBERT GUEI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



675 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: CANDIDATES OFFER VARIETY OF WAYS TO SPEND SURPLUS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 26

 BODY:
Thanks to projections of a large and growing federal budget surplus, the presidential candidates are proposing ambitious initiatives that reveal clear differences within and between the parties over taxes, spending programs and Social Security's long-term problems.
For the first time in decades, the candidates this time around are not constrained by the need to deal with big budget deficits. Indeed, it is very likely that the current forecast of a $3 trillion surplus over the next decade -- of which $2 trillion would come from excess Social Security revenues -- will be revised upward in the next several months, putting even more money on the table. 
 The leading candidates in both parties have already set out plans to use all or most of the surplus and are vigorously debating the relative merits of tax cuts, plans to reduce the national debt and ambitious efforts to address issues like health care and education.
Now they are edging into a debate over how they would use the bounty of the nation's current prosperity to address the politically explosive problems facing the two most sacrosanct of government programs, Social Security and Medicare. Without any changes, both programs could run short of money in the next few decades as the vast baby boom generation ages.
Vice President Al Gore would divide the surplus among a variety of things, including reducing the national debt, a strategy he said would be a first step toward fixing Social Security. Mr. Gore would also provide money to shore up Medicare and increase spending on education, health care and the military.
Bill Bradley, the former senator from New Jersey, would use most of the non-Social Security surplus on his proposal to expand access to health care, while reserving the Social Security surplus to deal with the retirement system's problems in ways that he has yet to describe.
Among the Republicans, Senator John McCain of Arizona is drawing a distinction between his emphasis on using most of the surplus to deal with Social Security and the big tax cut proposed by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain support increased spending for the military and reining in spending on many domestic programs.
To some degree, the fiscal plans set up a traditional choice between Republican tax-cutting and Democratic spending. But they also provide the framework for an emerging debate over how to prepare for the aging of the population.
Although neither has yet laid out a detailed plan, their aides said Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain both favored using the Social Security surplus to finance the creation of a new system of private investment accounts within the Social Security system.
In allocating money to set up the accounts, Mr. McCain would go further than Mr. Bush, dedicating not just the Social Security surplus but a majority of the non-Social Security surplus as well.
Private accounts have been vigorously debated in Congress for the last two years, with proponents saying that they would allow the country to tap into the power of the financial markets to ensure the retirement security of the baby boomers and their children.
The Democratic candidates, by contrast, oppose creating private accounts within Social Security, saying such a step would introduce too much risk into a program intended to be a safety net for retirees.
Mr. Bradley has so far had little to say on the subject. But Mr. Gore strongly backs a plan developed by the Clinton administration to dedicate the Social Security surplus to debt reduction, and his advisers say they are eager to begin a debate with the Republicans on the issue, which they predict will take center stage in the general election.
Mr. Gore would use the Social Security surplus to pay down the $3.5 trillion part of the national debt held by the public in the form of Treasury bonds. The vice president says debt reduction would yield lower interest rates and higher rates of economic growth, leaving the government with a stronger balance sheet and the ability to direct the interest savings into paying Social Security benefits.
In addition to dedicating the nearly $2 trillion in Social Security surpluses to debt reduction over the next decade, he has earmarked $374 billion of the $1 trillion non-Social Security surplus for Medicare. He would also provide $146 billion for his health care program, $115 billion for education, $127 billion for the military and $190 billion for other domestic programs.
His advisers say the vice president's strategy is to seek the middle, resisting both the big spending programs advocated by Mr. Bradley and the sweeping tax cuts proposed by Mr. Bush and other Republicans.
"As he looks around," said Elaine Kamarck, a policy adviser to Mr. Gore, "he sees on the one side this reckless tax cut mentality, and on the other side he sees this reckless spending mentality. Both of those are things that the last seven years of Democratic leadership have taught us to stay away from."
While Mr. Gore has regularly suggested that Mr. Bradley is open to further raising the retirement age -- an assertion Mr. Bradley says is wrong -- no candidate in either party has emphasized the likelihood that using the surplus will not be enough to solve Social Security's problems, which by current estimates could leave the retirement program short of money starting in 2033. And they have repeatedly dodged questions about which of several painful options, including reducing guaranteed benefits and raising taxes, they might support to put the system on sound footing.
"You have to have a leader who's going to be able to convene a bipartisan approach to this problem to consider all the possibilities," Mr. Bradley said in his Dec. 19 debate with Mr. Gore, on the NBC program "Meet the Press."
Mr. Bradley's fiscal plan is built on his proposal to improve access to health care, which he estimated would cost as much as $65 billion a year, to be paid out of the surplus. He would spend $10 billion a year on child poverty reduction, $2.6 billion on programs to help working families and $1.3 billion on farm aid. If fully enacted immediately, his plans would cost as much as $80 billion a year by his own reckoning, or $800 billion over 10 years out of a non-Social Security surplus of $1 trillion.
"We're at a moment now when we have an opportunity to solve some big problems we haven't been able to address before," said Eric Hauser, Mr. Bradley's spokesman. "We should fix the roof while the sun is shining."
Despite polls suggesting that tax cuts do not rank high as a priority for most voters, Mr. Bush, the Republican front-runner, has made his tax cut, which he values at $483 billion over five years, the centerpiece of his domestic agenda.
Mr. Bush says his tax plan, which would most likely use up nearly all of the non-Social Security surplus over 10 years, or perhaps even more, would provide benefits to workers across the income spectrum. Moreover, he said, by putting money back in the hands of taxpayers it would keep Washington from spending it on ever-larger government programs.
"The only way to get rid of the so-called surpluses in the short term is to put Al Gore or Bill Bradley as president of the United States, and they'll spend it all," Mr. Bush said at the most recent Republican debate, earlier this month in Iowa.
Mr. Bush's advisers said they had not decided whether to put out a detailed plan for Social Security. But they said that Mr. Bush generally favored creating individual Social Security investment accounts, financed by perhaps 2 or 3 percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax that supports the retirement system.
To create private accounts on that scale while still having enough revenue to pay current Social Security beneficiaries would probably require using the entire $2 trillion in Social Security surpluses over the next decade, they said.
Such an approach would leave Mr. Bush vulnerable to attack from Democrats that he is forgoing an opportunity to reduce or even pay off the national debt held by the public. But Mr. Bush's advisers said that creating private accounts would help reduce the national debt by another definition -- the government's deferred obligations to pay Social Security benefits down the road for which no money has been put aside.
"As a practical matter, fixing Social Security is as effective at improving the balance sheet of the United States as a direct debt pay-down," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser.
The other Republican candidates have Social Security plans of their own. And now Mr. McCain is starting to question whether Mr. Bush is too focused on tax cuts at the expense of ensuring Social Security's survival.
While Mr. Bush would reserve the $2 trillion Social Security surplus for the retirement system, Mr. McCain proposes using it plus 62 percent of the non-Social Security surplus -- roughly another $620 billion over 10 years -- to pay for a revamped system including personal accounts.
That approach leaves Mr. McCain with relatively little money out of the surplus for tax cuts. But his emerging fiscal strategy is that shoring up Social Security will trump Mr. Bush's tax plan even among the Republican faithful.
"Until his campaign offers a fuller explanation of his plan, it's difficult to see how Governor Bush's tax proposal leaves enough money for Social Security," said Dan Schnur, a spokesman for Mr. McCain.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "WHERE THEY STAND: A Leftover Pie, and a Stack of Plates to Fill"
The presidential candidates are setting out plans for the projected budget surplus, forecast at $3 trillion over the next decade, including $2 trillion in Social Security revenues. Here is how they would use it:
 
BUDGET SURPLUS FROM SOCIAL SECURITY
 
AL GORE -- Would pay down the part of the national debt held by the public and channel interest savings from debt reduction to Social Security.
 
BILL BRADLEY -- Would reserve the Social Security surplus to help keep the retirement system solvent, but has not provided any details of his plan.
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- Would use the Social Security surplus to finance the establishment of private investment accounts within the retirement system.
 
SURPLUS FROM OTHER THAN SOCIAL SECURITY
 
AL GORE -- Would allocate $374 billion to Medicare over 10 years, $146 billion to health care, $115 billion to education, $127 billion to the military and $190 billion to a variety of other intitiatives.
 
BILL BRADLEY -- Would dedicate most of it to his $65 billion- a-year plan to expand access to health care, while providing about $10 billion a year to fight child poverty and smaller amounts to other programs including farm aid.
 
GEORGE W. BUSH -- Would use most for a tax cut of $483 billion over five years (it would most likely cost more than $1 trillion over 10 years, according to inde-pendent estimates). Likely to propose increased Pentagon spending and cuts in other areas.
 
JOHN McCAIN -- Would use the Social Security surplus plus 62 percent of the non-Social Security surplus -- roughly $620 billion over 10 years -- to establish private retirement accounts. Would allocate $230 billion to tax cuts, $100 billion for Medicare and $50 billion for debt reduction. Would also propose spending cuts and closing tax loopholes to provide additional money for tax reductions. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BUDGETS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); AGING (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



676 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Upset, Bradley Enlists Unlikely Model

SERIES: THE STATE OF THE RACES: The Bradley Campaign

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24

 BODY:
In his professorial style, former Senator Bill Bradley reminds some people of Adlai E. Stevenson. Others hear the liberal idealism of Robert F. Kennedy in his speeches, or find his distaste for hardball politics reminiscent of Michael S. Dukakis.
But the candidate that Mr. Bradley invokes most often in his insurgent campaign for president is not a liberal or even a Democrat. It is former President Ronald Reagan, in whose political playbook Mr. Bradley and his advisers have found much to admire, and perhaps emulate, as they battle Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic nomination. 
 Like Mr. Reagan, Mr. Bradley has sought to project a sunny optimism, calling for a "world of new possibilities" that echoes Mr. Reagan's "morning in America." Like Mr. Reagan, he has focused on a few issues, hoping that expanding health care and reducing poverty will grab voters' imaginations the way shrinking government and fighting Communism did for Mr. Reagan.
And like Mr. Reagan, a former actor, Mr. Bradley, a former basketball star, is running as a celebrity outsider, trying to build an anti-Washington rebellion against a White House scarred by scandal.
"I admired the focus that he had when he ran," Mr. Bradley said of Mr. Reagan in an interview. "He told people what he wanted to do. And when people voted for him in sizable majorities, it gave him a mandate."
It is a game plan that has helped Mr. Bradley mount a surprisingly potent challenge to Mr. Gore. Just 15 months ago, he was not a candidate and Mr. Gore was a shoo-in for the party's nomination. Today, he has matched Mr. Gore in fund-raising, pulled even with him in polls in New Hampshire, built a national organization and given himself a shot, though still a long one, at upsetting the vice president.
But the coming weeks will provide a critical test of Mr. Bradley's staying power.
First up are the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 24 and the New Hampshire primary a week later. Then come five weeks of coast-to-coast campaigning for the primaries on March 7 in New York, California, Ohio and several other major states. If either candidate stumbles badly, the race could be over by mid-March.
And with that daunting schedule, many analysts have begun questioning whether Mr. Bradley's campaign is up to the task.
Did he fail to take advantage of a wave of positive news coverage in the early fall? Is he winning attention mainly because of his basketball celebrity? Is he in a seemingly strong position now simply because he is the only challenger to an opponent who seems to be constantly trying to reinvent himself to connect with voters?
Many analysts have also begun sensing vulnerabilities in his Reaganesque strategy. They say Mr. Bradley seems to be trying too hard to stay above the fray. And some assert that in focusing on just a few issues -- health care, poverty, campaign finance and race relations -- he has failed to address problems people care about as much or more, like education and the economy.
But most important, a large number of analysts argue, Mr. Bradley has yet to demonstrate that he has built the kind of national movement needed to upset a vice president who dominates the party's organization and has spent seven years recruiting endorsements.
"He must throw Gore into disarray to have a shot in California," said Fred Siegel, a history professor at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art in New York. "He needs to win decisively in New Hampshire and New York, and I don't know if all those things can happen."
Mr. Siegel and other experts point to Mr. Reagan's failed primary challenge against President Gerald Ford in 1976 as evidence of just how difficult Mr. Bradley's task is.
"Reagan ran an extraordinary campaign in 1976, but it still wasn't enough" Mr. Siegel said. "Sure, Gore has made plenty of miscues. But I'm not sure it's enough to knock him out."
That year, Mr. Reagan had an important advantage that Mr. Bradley does not: he was viewed as the leader of the Republican's conservative wing, a group disaffected with Mr. Ford. Mr. Bradley cannot claim any such base and is widely viewed within the party as centrist, on the same ideological plane as Mr. Gore.
Mr. Bradley has tried to outflank the vice president among the party's liberal base, which includes blacks, women, labor unions and environmentalists. In every stump speech, he talks about improving race relations, protecting the environment and reducing poverty. And he has proposed increasing the minimum wage automatically when inflation rises.
But while Mr. Bradley has made inroads on the left, the Gore campaign still holds more cards. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has endorsed the vice president and polls show that black voters and women remain supportive of the administration and, by extension, Mr. Gore.
With those obstacles in mind, Mr. Bradley has mapped out a strategy to "expand the electorate" by energizing first-time voters and people who have become apathetic or disgusted with politics. His pledges to reduce the influence of money in politics and to speak from his heart are aimed directly at disaffected independents and Democrats angry with President Clinton.
It might seem an impossible task to build a national movement in just a few months. But Mr. Bradley has actually been laying the groundwork for a national campaign for more than a decade. By the time he announced his candidacy in late 1998, he had a group of devoted longtime advisers and a network of fund-raisers in place -- much like Mr. Reagan in 1976.
By October this year, Mr. Bradley had raised nearly $20 million dollars, and his frugal spending had left him more cash on hand than Mr. Gore. Mr. Bradley also won much national attention by unveiling a plan to subsidize health insurance for 95 percent of Americans.
As he campaigns, Mr. Bradley often tells audiences that he decided to release a detailed health plan partly because he thought the strategy had worked for Mr. Reagan in 1980. By being specific, Mr. Bradley argues, Mr. Reagan could claim a mandate for his budget and tax-cutting policies when he won, helping to soften opposition in Congress.
But the specificity that Mr. Bradley considers a strength is a tempting target for Mr. Gore.
For two months, the Gore camp has picked apart the Bradley health plan. And Mr. Gore and his supporters have broadened their criticisms to include Mr. Bradley's record on education, campaign finance and agriculture.
Mr. Gore's aides say they think their combative approach has tied the Bradley campaign in knots. "It's a conundrum for them," said one aide. "If they engage us, it's a mistake, because his strength is being a philosopher-king. If you stay out there and don't do anything, you get defined negatively." Either way, the aide said, the Gore campaign has managed to muddle Mr. Bradley's message and knock him off stride.
In recent weeks, Mr. Bradley has become somewhat more forceful in his responses. During a testy debate with Mr. Gore on "Meet the Press," Mr. Bradley repeatedly shouted "That's not true!" when Mr. Gore criticized his health plan. And when Mr. Gore offered a hand-shake deal to eschew television commercials, Mr. Bradley sarcastically rejected it.
Still, some analysts said Mr. Bradley should have delivered a more forceful blow directly at what they consider Mr. Gore's Achilles' heel: the much-criticized fund-raising practices of the Clinton-Gore campaign in 1996.
Mr. Bradley hit at some of those problems when he staged an event recently with Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential candidate, where both pledged to forsake so-called soft money if they are nominated. Then Mr. McCain took some potshots at Mr. Gore.
But analysts say Mr. Bradley himself may need to take those shots. "Sooner or later he's going to have to engage Gore in hand-to-hand combat," said Mitchell Moss, director of New York University's urban research center.
For his part, Mr. Bradley says his greatest challenge will be to amplify his message above the noise of Mr. Gore's attacks. So far, he has had some success with that in Iowa and New Hampshire, where small-group campaigning dominates and his folksy style seems most effective.
The fight for March 7, however, will be played out mostly on television, which has not always been kind to Mr. Bradley, who can come across as sleepy-eyed or stiff on camera.
Mr. Bradley has worked hard, with some success, at appearing comfortable on television. And his campaign is preparing commercials that will try to evoke his plain-spoken, earnest style, probably by relying on shots of him speaking into the camera or to groups of voters.
"The traditional answer is you hire political consulting firms and they turn you into a cookie-cutter production," Mr. Bradley said. "And what I decided was, no, I wanted to convey who I am and what I believe and where I want to take the country to the widest audience."
"Now," he added, "we are going to test whether I am able to do that."
 
AT A GLANCE -- The Bradley Campaign
 
HEADQUARTERS -- West Orange, N.J.
STAFF SIZE -- 150 full-time workers nationwide.
CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN -- Douglas C. Berman.
CASH ON HAND -- The campaign refuses to release an estimate.
PROMINENT ADVISERS -- Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger on foreign policy; Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, on economics; David M. Cutler, professor of economics at Harvard University, on health care; Robert B. Reich, former secretary of labor, on social policy.
BIGGEST COUPS SO FAR -- Getting positive national attention for the kickoff of his campaign in September; staging a well-covered event on campaign finance reform with Senator John McCain of Arizona, a Republican candidate, in December.
BIGGEST MISTAKES SO FAR -- Responding slowly to Vice President Al Gore's attacks on his health care plan.
CHALLENGES AHEAD -- Matching Mr. Gore's national organization; translating his folksy campaign style to television.
 
State of the Races
This is the first in a series of status reports on the campaigns of the top contenders for the Democratic and Republican nominations as they enter the primary season. Next: The Gore campaign.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley, a former basketball star, signing an autograph for a fan recently in Washington. Though he spent 18 years in the Senate, Mr. Bradley has embraced an outsider image, as did Ronald Reagan, a former actor. (Associated Press)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DAO, JAMES; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



677 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Two Visions on Health Care

 BODY:
Recent debates between Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley have put health care squarely on the campaign agenda, but no doubt confused many voters about complex cost and coverage issues. Mr. Bradley proposes an expensive plan that invites uninsured people to buy coverage, with the help of federal subsidies for families with incomes of up to about $50,000, from any one of hundreds of private plans that serve federal employees. Mr. Gore, arguing that Mr. Bradley's plan would lead to unacceptably high tax increases or federal spending cuts, proposes taking modest steps that would reduce the number of uninsured people by expanding existing federal-state programs to cover more low-income children and their parents. He would also offer tax credits to individuals and small businesses that acquire coverage.
The difference between the two approaches poses the central question that divides liberals from moderates in the Democratic Party: Is universal access to health insurance worth its costs? 
 There are two ways to achieve universal coverage. The first imposes a legal mandate. But with mandates come complexity and intense political opposition, as President Clinton learned to his regret in 1994. The second -- Mr. Bradley's way -- relies on voluntary purchase. The problem here is cost. If Mr. Bradley were to subsidize coverage only for uninsured people, he would encourage employers to drop coverage, use some of the savings to boost wages and invite workers to switch to the subsidized public program. That would drive up costs and possibly increase the number of uninsured workers. So Mr. Bradley is forced to offer subsidies to low-wage workers who remain insured through their employers, eliminating any incentive to drop their private coverage. He says his program, including a drug benefit for the elderly, would cost up to $65 billion a year. Mr. Gore's advisers say it could cost twice that much. In fact, Mr. Bradley's figure is probably low.
Mr. Bradley provides a maximum subsidy of $1,800 for a single adult. The problem, as Mr. Gore never ceases to point out, is that in many parts of the country there are no federal plans that offer coverage for only $1,800. In practice Mr. Bradley's subsidy would probably have to rise to an average of between $2,100 and $2,400. Mr. Bradley's drug plan would also probably cost more than he estimates. It would cover 75 percent of all drug costs for the elderly above $500 a year. By contrast, Mr. Gore's drug plan would pay 50 percent of the costs up to an initial maximum of $2,000 a year. Mr. Bradley says the two plans would cost about the same amount, but his more comprehensive coverage might cost 50 percent more.
It is when the debate shifts from costs to coverage that Mr. Bradley has a chance to score with voters. Mr. Gore's advisers say his plan would provide coverage to 12 million uninsured people, while Mr. Bradley's would reach 15 million. Mr. Bradley's advisers counter that the Bradley plan plan would cover 30 million Americans, Mr. Gore's only 7 million. Mr. Gore also accuses Mr. Bradley of eliminating Medicaid. But Mr. Bradley says he is doing what Mr. Clinton proposed in 1994, enrolling the poor into the same health plans that cover everyone else. He says he provides enough money to keep their benefits from falling.
On narrow calculation, Mr. Gore's plan gets more coverage per dollar. It covers approximately 10 million people at a cost of about $25 billion a year. Mr. Bradley's plan would cover between 15 million and 30 million people for $85 billion to $100 billion a year. But Mr. Gore's strategy of incremental steps is unlikely to ever produce universal coverage. Once he tries to extend coverage beyond the least privileged people, he will run into Mr. Bradley's problem that any effort to subsidize uninsured workers requires subsidizing insured workers as well.
A realistic look at budget options starkly outlines the question underlying their differing approaches. In a $9 trillion economy that is experiencing the best economic times ever, is it worth spending $100 billion a year on universal coverage, something other, less wealthy industrialized countries have already achieved? Mr. Bradley's plan would mean less money for Medicare, education and other programs and might require higher taxes. Mr. Gore says, in effect, that the benefits are not worth these costs. That is the right debate for an election year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



678 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Future: Bright or Grim?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "Good News From Russia (Yes, It's True)" (Op-Ed, Dec. 23), Martin Malia praises Russia's fledgling steps toward reform and democracy. But he doesn't offer a solution to Russia's empty value system, and therein lies the undoing of his hopeful analysis. 
 The reason for Poland's success and Russia's failure in making the transition to a lawful, bustling society has to do with values, not Western loans or a lack of patience. Poland had a strong Catholic tradition to build on. Russia, on the other hand, had a significantly weakened Orthodox tradition. Russia presently has a values vacuum, and until it is filled, we will not know what kind of society will evolve on the great plain of Eurasia.
 
DENNIS J. DUNN
San Marcos, Tex., Dec. 23, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of history at Southwest Texas State University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); POLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS STATE TITLE (56%); SOUTHWEST TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SOUTHWEST TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWEST TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SOUTHWEST TEXAS STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); POLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: DUNN, DENNIS J; MALIA, MARTIN MARTIN MALIA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1999



679 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 3; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Back on Top in Industrial Research

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
American industry is pouring extraordinary sums of money into research and development in an effort to nurture strong growth, private and federal officials are reporting.
Analysts had once feared that American industry in the 1990's, faced with rising global competition, tightening budgets and growing demands for quick profitability from investors, was quietly abandoning the kind of high-risk research that historically has produced the biggest payoffs and breakthroughs. Worrisome examples cited by experts are W. R. Grace and Eastman Chemical, which recently closed the doors on corporate laboratories. 
 But a new study by the Industrial Research Institute, a nonprofit group in Washington that represents large companies, says overall trends turn out to be strongly the opposite -- and federal officials in interviews echoed the upbeat numbers and analyses.
The report, titled "Basic Research in Industry," is based on federal data and institute surveys, and concludes, "Industry is doing more long-range, high-risk, discovery-type research than ever before." It was released on Dec. 15 by Charles F. Larson, executive director of the institute.
"I was amazed at the growth," Mr. Larson said in an interview. "I've been sensing this for some time but was delighted to find that it was true in terms of the hard numbers. It's a new era."
From 1994 to 1999, the study said, American industrial research and development grew to a projected $166 billion from $97.1 billion, a rise of 71 percent, or slightly less if adjusted for inflation, and in any case more than double the spending of the federal government, which in 1999 is putting about $70 billion into research and development. Until the 1980's, the government was the nation's unrivaled research leader as it probed new frontiers with innovative technology from atom smashers to orbiting telescopes.
By soaring during the past five years, industrial research and development is rebounding from a flat period in the early 1990's, when companies cut back on research in an effort to try to raise efficiencies and cut redundancies. By 1992, Japan was seen as having equaled or surpassed the United States as the world's top patron of industrial research and development, giving it a powerful weapon in the trade wars to produce a new wave of innovative goods and services.
But America is now indisputably back on top, with Japanese industry spending some $95 billion last year, far less than the United States.
Most of the industrial money goes into the relatively prosaic work of development, like engineering, making prototypes and testing products. A lesser amount goes into applied research, which focuses on making new products, processes and services for tomorrow.
A major surprise of the study, Mr. Larson said, is that directed basic research -- the blue-sky pursuit of products and services that might lie a decade in the future -- has grown even faster than overall research and development in the past half decade. It is up 79 percent, to $10.9 billion in 1999 from $6.1 billion in 1994.
The Industrial Research Institute found that the rise came mainly from companies doing business in the life and information sciences, including enterprises like Cisco Systems, Compaq Computer, Lilly & Company, Lucent Technologies, Merck & Company, Microsoft, Monsanto and Sun Microsystems. Microsoft is reportedly investing 17 percent of its sales in research and development, and many companies are putting in more.
The feverish growth, Mr. Larson said, comes in reaction to strong global competition and is made possible by healthy corporate profits and cash flows. Other factors, he said, include the spread of the idea that the economy is increasingly knowledge-driven, and that raising intellectual capital is good a way to manage the corporate enterprise for growth in sales, profits and shareholder value.
He added that many companies, including Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Lucent, International Business Machines, Texas Instruments and Xerox, have begun "skunk works," or independent start-ups, to help foster innovation.
John E. Jankowski, a financial analyst at the National Science Foundation, a federal agency that tracks science spending, said the Industrial Research Institute study was right on target. "Our statistics show strong positive growth," he said. "We've had a very positive trend in terms of industrial research and development."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Spending Spree"
American industry is pouring vast sums into research and development. The rise comes mainly from companies doing business in life and information sciences.
 
Graph plots R.& D. spending in billions.
 
(Source: Industrial Research Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (58%); W R GRACE & CO (57%); INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (91%); INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (91%); INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TEST MARKETING (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (62%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J CHARLES F LARSON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



680 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Urban Squeeze

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Dec. 23 news article "Artists Are Evicted From Apartments They Built in a Vacant Factory" raises some points that the city needs to address immediately. The reason factory buildings have been converted to apartments has always been because of the need for affordable housing near the center of the city. 
 Unfortunately, these conversions are driving out part of our diverse economic base, the manufacturers, who cannot compete with the prices the apartment dwellers are willing to pay. We need to find room for both affordable housing and manufacturing space.
 
THOMAS G. LUNKE
New York, Dec. 23, 1999
 
The writer is an urban planner. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; EVICTIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EVICTION (90%); WRITERS (86%); LAND USE PLANNING (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LUNKE, THOMAS G

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



681 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The Defining Styles of Capitalism

 BODY:
Malt liquors and boots were among America's 10 largest industries at the beginning of the 20th century. A third of Americans worked in agriculture. Fifty years later, cars, aircraft and chemical manufacturing dominated the economy and only about 4 percent of Americans worked in agriculture. The United States started the century on an economic par with Great Britain. By the middle of the century, living standards were 50 percent higher in the United States than in Britain.
Now, at the end of the century, Americans, mostly employed in white-collar jobs, account for only 4 percent of the world's population but for more than 20 percent of its output. The American brand of capitalism -- democratic, lightly regulated and full of opportunities for individuals to fail as well as succeed -- is widely seen as a model for others to emulate. As the end of the century draws near, there is no longer any doubt that the state-dominated economies that competed with capitalism for much of the modern era have failed. Less clear than many Americans might imagine, however, is which model of capitalism -- American, European or Japanese -- is likely to prove most dominant in the decades ahead. 
 America's economic success began before this century. The country had abundant natural resources from the start, and in the 19th century, immigration and huge investments in railroads helped create a continent-expanding economy. Entrepreneurs developed the "American system" of interchangeable parts, first in firearms, to cut down the costs of producing complex products. In the 20th century came the assembly line, churning out cars that workers could afford. Long before Europe, the United States provided free high school education, laying the foundation for a knowledge-based economy. From the 1920's on, economic growth was tied to science-based technologies, and in the 50 years after 1910 output per hour more than tripled.
A mostly hands-off, decentralized system rewarded personal skills, entrepreneurial investment and innovation. The flexibility of largely unfettered labor markets also helped the economy triple in size in the 30 years following World War II. More people working with more machines account for some of the growth. But most of the spectacular gains arose from something more profound: educated people working with smarter machines. By 1975, productivity -- output per worker -- was twice as high in the United States as in Britain.
The economy has been so hot in the past few years that there is a natural temptation to declare that America's freewheeling "cowboy" capitalism has triumphed permanently over European or Japanese versions. But economic historians, taking the longer view, consider such a conclusion premature. Each of the models has its own strengths and each has stumbled at times in recent decades.
The American economy, for instance, stalled in the 1970's after the oil price shocks. For nearly two decades unemployment rates remained high and wages of all but the highest-paid workers stagnated. Inequality soared. Americans looked abroad for answers. Europe's system of generous social insurance and regulated labor markets produced comparable living standards and more equal income distribution. But then unemployment took hold. In the 1980's attention turned to the success of Japan's system of corporate cartels and lifetime employment. But by the 1990's Japan had entered a decade-long slumber.
Attention returned to America's hurly-burly economy, which has achieved the lowest unemployment in the industrialized world in part by throwing millions of people out of work each year only to hire them back (in different jobs) along with millions more. The United States prospered in part because of the accelerating pace of globalization and technological change. Rapid change puts a premium on flexibility, America's greatest economic asset. Europe's more stable system of long-term employment may return to favor in more tranquil times.
Indeed, for all these ups and downs, economists and historians see more similarities than differences among successful economies in Japan, Europe and the United States. All are vibrant, literate, science-oriented democracies with a base of private property. They rely on relatively open markets, trade and mature legal systems for resolving conflicts. None of the governments are hands-off. All of them, including the United States, tightly regulate financial markets. The current dominance of the American model rests, in historic terms, on a fleeting experience. Only in the last few years of the current recovery has the economy created both large employment gains and wage increases.
But for scholars reflecting on the economic history of the century, there can be no doubt on one central point. Measured by the feature that best defines economic prosperity -- productivity growth -- the market economies of the United States, Western Europe and Japan far outpaced state-run, autocratic, anti-trade regimes throughout Latin America and Africa. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; AFRICA; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



682 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Progress on Medical Errors

 BODY:
The Department of Veterans Affairs recently reported that veterans' hospitals around the country committed about 3,000 medical errors leading to about 700 deaths between June 1997 and December 1998. These frightening statistics reflect what can go wrong in the veterans' health system. But they also reflect what is being done right.
Veterans' hospitals are not the only ones plagued by mistakes. The Institute of Medicine reported last month that medical mistakes kill more hospital patients than car accidents, AIDS or breast cancer. The report goaded politicians to promise corrective action, and last week eight executives of major companies disclosed the formation of an organization -- the Leapfrog Group -- designed in part to steer employees to hospitals that make the fewest mistakes. 
 The veterans' hospitals had already begun putting error-catching systems in place before the institute's report was released. When Dr. Kenneth Kizer took over as under secretary of veterans affairs in 1994, he found an unorganized health system lacking modern quality control or standards. The system had a reputation for bloated costs and sometimes substandard care.
Dr. Kizer brought hospitals, outpatient clinics and nursing homes together into integrated networks. He paid the networks a fixed amount of money for each veteran the network treated independent of the diagnosis, giving them a powerful incentive to spend money wisely. The doctors were paid salaries, eliminating any economic reason to under-treat or over-treat patients. Dr. Kizer closed hospitals and eliminated administrators.
"The Veterans Health Administration has made a more serious commitment to improving health safety than any other large system in the country," said Dr. Donald Berwick of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, a nonprofit research center in Boston.
Beyond structural reforms, Dr. Kizer initiated a policy that requires employees of the veterans' health system to report medical errors. This policy produced the data on thousands of mistakes and hundreds of deaths over 19 months. There is no evidence that the veterans' hospitals are treating patients less safely than other institutions are, Dr. Berwick said. He argues that private hospitals would look just as bad if they reported medical errors as accurately.
The first step in overcoming errors is to report them accurately. The data from the veterans' hospitals, as grim as they are, reflect the fact that the system is moving in the right direction. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (53%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (53%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; HOSPITALS; VETERANS VETERANS HEALTH CARE (93%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); BREAST CANCER (56%); 

PERSON: KIZER, KENNETH W (UNDER SEC) KENNETH KIZER (92%); DONALD BERWICK (65%); JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



683 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Cuba's Infant Death Rate Drops Again

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: HAVANA, Cuba, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Cuba's infant mortality rate, already one of the lowest in the world, fell further in 1999, health officials said.
Health Minister Carlos Dotres, in a news conference over the weekend, said the preliminary figure for this year was about 6.5 deaths per thousand births, down from a rate of 7.1 per thousand the previous year and 11 per thousand a decade ago. 
 Free health service for all, a rarity in Latin America, has been one of the main features of President Fidel Castro's government since he seized power in 1959.
In an overview of their ministry's work, Mr. Dotres and other officials added that Cuba currently has 3,140 medical personnel assisting international organizations in 58 countries around the world, including the poorest regions of Central America, the Caribbean and Africa.
Some 447 medical workers also have flown to Venezuela in recent days to provide free emergency services in the flood-ravaged South American nation, the officials added.
Cuba offers a free medical education to 1,913 students from 18 countries in the region at the new Latin American School for Medical Sciences in Havana.
Mr. Dotres acknowledged that the country still had shortages of medicine, largely owing to the United States' economic blockade, but he said that the situation was improving slowly. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & DEATH RATES (91%); INFANT MORTALITY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (52%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



684 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
The Prices Of Treasuries Rise Slightly

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
As shoppers returned to stores and malls looking for post-Christmas bargains yesterday, a faint echo of that trend was heard in the Treasury market as scattered bargain hunting lifted prices off 27-month lows.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 9/32, to 95 18/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.46 percent from 6.49 percent at Thursday's close. The market was closed on Friday before Christmas Day. 
 Analysts said a smattering of bargain hunting and favorable financing rates buoyed prices. But they also said the modest upward move occurred on such light trading that it held little significance.
"It didn't take much to push yields around, just because volume is so thin," said George Simon, debt strategist at A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc.
Kevin Flanagan, money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said the levels in place "when we took the baton this morning were overdone, some bargain hunters came in and, given the thin volume, had a more pronounced effect."
Mr. Flanagan said traders tried to buy on the dips. "There was no news and sentiment didn't shift. The market just wasn't ready to go through 6.50 yet," he said, referring to the benchmark 30-year bond yield.
A trader at a primary government securities dealer said: "People think the low was put in last week or maybe overnight. The market is drastically oversold."
The federal funds rate traded in the afternoon at 5 1/2 percent, which is the Federal Reserve's target rate, and at a relatively soft 5 7/16 percent early in the day. The Fed also added $8.98 billion in temporary reserves to the banking system through 17-day fixed-system repurchase agreements.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Both issues are dated Dec. 30, 1999. The three-month bills mature on March 30, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on June 29, 2000.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



685 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: World Bank's Aim: Beef for China

BYLINE: By Neal D. Barnard; Neal D. Barnard is president of the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The World Bank has proved again that the pen is mightier than the sword. The sword -- in this case a scythe harvesting the grains that have kept the Chinese free of the diet-related health problems plaguing Westerners -- was defeated last week when, with the stroke of a pen, the World Bank signed off on a $93.5 million loan to build 130 feedlots and five processing centers for China's nascent beef industry.
The World Health Organization would have had it differently. Its figures show that the traditional Chinese diet, rich in rice and vegetables, with little meat and virtually no dairy products, has kept heart disease and myriad other Western health problems at arm's length. An improved food distribution network has eliminated the shortages suffered by some other Asian countries. Today, per capita food intake is actually higher in China than in the United States. Unfortunately, steak, fast food and cheese have started to replace traditional rice and noodle dishes in some regions even without the World Bank's help. Those areas have shown the highest incidence of Western-style medical problems. 
 While smart Americans recognize the need to "Easternize" their own diets with rice, soy products and more vegetarian options, World Bank bureaucrats decided to promote a Westernization of China's diet. Instead of supporting the use of grain as a cholesterol-free dietary staple for people, the grain will be fed to cattle to produce meat.
This practice promotes not just poor health, but also the inefficient use of food. Kilo after kilo of grain proteins fed to cattle yield only one-tenth this amount of protein in meat.
Of course, the World Bank's efforts to promote cattle farming in China are concerned less with good health than with economic investment. No doubt some cattle ranchers will profit, as they edge out vegetable and rice acreage. But why is the World Bank, so roundly criticized over for years for its self-defeating economic development schemes, falling into the same old trap? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (94%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT WORLD BANK (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; HEART; DIET AND NUTRITION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); NUTRITION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); HEART DISEASE (77%); BEEF (76%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); CHEESE (74%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHOLESTEROL (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

PERSON: BARNARD, NEAL D (DR)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



686 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: On the Year 2000 Front, Humans Are the Big Wild Cards

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
With four days until the year 2000, government officials, company managers and computer experts are waiting anxiously to see if the public will remain calm.
It is not that everyone is sure the computers and the machinery in which they are often embedded will perform flawlessly as they roll past midnight and encounter Year 2000 dates -- far from it. Repair work has lagged behind in many countries and some domestic sectors, like small businesses. And even the most stringent programs will inevitably have some overlooked flaws. 
 Still, the prevailing view is that the technical glitches are likely to have limited economic and social impact. Bigger disruptions could come, the experts say, from unwarranted stockpiling, withdrawals of large sums from banks, or other sudden efforts by millions of people to insulate themselves from possible technical failures.
"The biggest remaining variable is public attitude," said Harris N. Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America. (For the moment that attitude is more confident than ever: The Associated Press's latest poll found that 92 percent of Americans expect minor problems at worst.) "One incident can change it quickly," he added, "but if we stay on this track, the whole thing could end up as a major victory for common sense."
Such thinking is disputed by Year 2000 readiness advocates who contend that it is reckless for individuals not to prepare for major disruptions just as the government and major companies have done. But whatever happens, there is wide agreement with John A. Koskinen, chairman of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion, that Y2K, as the computer problem is known, has become "the greatest management challenge of the past 50 years."
Had nothing been done, the world's financial systems would already be sagging from errors in software that relies on future dates -- like programs tracking debt payments -- with an almost certain collapse early next year. Manufacturing, food distribution, power and phone networks and most other basic services would have begun slowing within weeks if not minutes after midnight Dec. 31. Computer users not hit directly would nonetheless have been quickly crippled by breakdowns among suppliers or key customers, experts say.
To prevent such a fate, tens of millions of people have been involved in preparations ranging from fixing computer code to developing contingency plans to deal with any remaining glitches. More than $250 billion has been spent in the effort, mostly in the last three years, according to several estimates.
The Year 2000 problem came as no surprise to programmers. It stems from a decades-old space-saving tactic of using just two digits to represent the year. Many programmers recognized that 00 would be ambiguous -- some computers would interpret it as 1900 and others not recognize it as a valid date -- but they mistakenly assumed that the two-digit programming practice would die out long before the new century and the software using it would be retired.
It was not until the late 1990's that most senior managers recognized how deep the problem ran. Now, even computer novices realize that Year 2000 flaws can crash their systems or pump vast amounts of faulty data into files, billings or other documents before they are recognized.
It has turned out that faulty computers in machinery like phone switches, industrial robots and video recorders are rarer and usually more trivial than many experts originally feared. In fact, officials in the airline and electric industries said recently that their repairs turned up no embedded computers that could have caused major failures.
Still, because there are billions of embedded processors, even a small percentage of date-sensitive units adds up to millions of devices that could cause trouble if incorrectly handled. Chrysler has identified 6,000 robots, controllers and other electronic devices in 50 plants that it will reset on Jan. 3 before it restarts its production lines. No one knows how many have been overlooked or inadequately tested.
For all the work that has been done, tough challenges remain.
While some embedded flaws will remain invisible until machines are turned off or on for the first time in the Year 2000, which could be months from now, the worst of that threat will be over quickly in January. Most managers are more worried about office systems and software. The information technology that runs the world's offices, banks and government agencies could continue to have problems for months as different programs, like payrolls or tax accounting packages, deal with Year 2000 dates for the first time.
Major computer users may have hundreds of millions of lines of code in their software, and research shows that even the programs that have ostensibly been fixed and tested still have flaws, some serious. Managers in this country are confident that they have found enough of the major problems to be able to fix new ones that come to light before they do much damage.
One hopeful sign is that flaws have, so far, been showing up at slightly lower rates than analysts had projected. For example, the Gartner Group, a technology consulting firm in Stamford, Conn., expected Year 2000 problems to create 75 percent more breakdowns than normal this month but its latest projections suggest that the increase will be 65 percent. But Gartner is sticking by projections that programmers will be twice as burdened as normal thanks to Year 2000 flaws for the first two months of next year.
"The issue will be, you've got a boat, you've got a hole in it, how fast can you bail?" said James Woodward, the Dallas-based head of North American Year 2000 services for Cap Gemini, Europe's largest computer services company.
As Dec. 31 nears, concerns about computer viruses and intruders are also on the rise. Managers fear that the vast amount of work on systems may have left them more open to security breaches. In addition, publicity about Year 2000 "acts as a draw for those who want to make a statement," said Richard Landes, director of the Center for Millennial Studies at Boston University.
A growing number of computer users are erecting defenses like those of the Regional Medical Center in Orangeburg, S.C., which is shutting off computer access from its system to the Internet on Dec. 31; executives in its command center that want to track information on the World Wide Web will use a separate computer installed for the rollover.
Security threats aside, many companies are preparing to execute elaborate precautions affecting employees, suppliers and customers alike. Many large chemical plants and oil pipelines are shutting down for the transition. Major freight railroads and Amtrak are suspending service on New Year's Eve to go through one last round of equipment and signal checks after midnight.
Perhaps most of all, government and company officials will be struggling to separate fact from rumor, and a vast number of public and private information networks are being pieced together for the occasion. A recent test of the Government's Y2K Information Coordination Center included telecommunications links to counterparts in 80 countries and 50 states and many numerous emergency management officials.
"We are going to be asking what is happening with everything all over the world," Mr. Koskinen said. "Our major requirement is to put out accurate information, but we have to be timely, too. There has never been anything like this in all of history."
Reliable information is crucial for contingency planners, because the computers and human actors they have been worrying most about are those beyond their control.
International businesses say information is particularly hard to come by overseas. All assessments describe Russia as the largest nation far behind in preparations. China by virtue of its size and heavy reliance on pirated software is seen as a higher than average risk. Japan started late but seems to have largely caught up, at least among its larger companies.
Nigeria is one of several African countries considered especially risky; the national Year 2000 group was given $1 million of the $200 million it said it needed. But oil companies have said they expect exports as usual from there, the Persian Gulf and Venezuela.
Of course, many of the countries least prepared for the problem are those most accustomed to coping with disruptions. Only a handful of nations with major Year 2000 problems are likely to suffer substantial economic consequences, according to projections by the International Data Corporation, a consulting firm based in Framingham, Mass. Even then, I.D.C. says, worldwide losses will be less than $24 billion.
No one thinks Americans will stay relaxed if major disruptions develop. Indeed, for most of this year, many of the biggest debates have swirled around how to encourage some preparations without inciting unusual behavior or panic.
Authorities have been warning homeowners against storing gasoline or taking large amounts of money out of the bank. The Gartner Group predicts lines and possible spot shortages of gasoline the last two days of this month as Americans top off the tanks in their cars.
"It's going to get hairy for a couple of days," said Lou Marcoccio, Year 2000 research director at the Gartner Group.
The actual arrival of the Year 2000 might seem like a letdown, experts say. But most experts agree that it will take several quiet weeks to be confident that the first global technology challenge has been met successfully.
Even if it all unfolds as smoothly as the optimists project, a potentially titanic legal battle over who pays is shaping up. Xerox, Nike and Unisys are among the eight companies that have already sued for reimbursement from their insurers for spending hundreds of millions of dollars on Year 2000 repairs.
They cite language in business contracts dating from the 19th century, when insurers would pay ship owners for money spent trying to prevent a ship from sinking. The insurers argue they owe nothing because Year 2000 losses were completely foreseeable, and Congress acted last summer to limit their exposure.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bonnie Johnson stocked up on containers in Twin Falls, Idaho, before Christmas. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); A man in Seoul, South Korea, stocks up for possible Year 2000 problems. His emergency kit contains rice, noodles, water, tuna, ham, butane gas containers, candles and matches. The kit costs about $75. (Associated Press)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "Year 2000: A Consumer Checklist"
Following are some suggestions from the government's preparedness checklist:
 
FOOD AND WATER: At least a three-day supply (1 gallon of water a person a day).
OTHER SUPPLIES: Flashlights, batteries, battery-powered radio, first- aid kit and adequate clothing.
RECORDS: Keep copies of financial statements, medical records and drug information for several months; check credit card charges and other transactions against statements; have phone numbers of hospitals, police and fire departments and neighbors.
CASH No more than normal for a holiday weekend.
MEDICINE: Refill, if less than a week's supply left.
GASOLINE: Keep your tank above half full.
CONSUMER ELECTRONICS: Check Year 2000 readiness of essential equipment like programmable thermostats, security systems and home computers with manufacturers.
PHONES AND INTERNET: Use only if necessary on Jan. 1.
CAMS: Beware of scams. Never give out bank account, credit card or Social Security numbers unless you initiated the contact. (pg. C4)
 
Graph: "Year 2000: The Economic Impact"
 
A BIGGER WORKLOAD
Year 2000 problems come on top of the steady stream of normal software breakdowns that keep programmers busy. Earlier this year, the Gartner Group, a technology consulting firm, projected that Year 2000 problems might double the workload of computer workers by January. But so far, actual increases are running below their projections. The graph shows the additional workload because of Y2K since October 1998.
 
SOME COUNTRIES WILL FARE BETTER THAN OTHERS
Some countries are unlikely to have serious Year 2000 problems because of extensive preparations. Analysts say others, with only small portions of their economies computerized, will also do well. At greatest risk are computerized countries that are not prepared -- but even these, according to the International Data Corporation, may lose less than one-half of 1 percent of 2000 business revenues. The graph shows the breakdown of each country and what percent of annual business revenues lost. (Sources: Gartner Group; International Data Corp.'s Project Magellan)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); COMPUTER SOFTWARE COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHRISTMAS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



687 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: Gore Path to 'Promotion' Hit A Glass Backboard in Bradley

SERIES: THE STATE OF THE CAMPAIGN: Al Gore

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27

 BODY:
It was all so simple for Al Gore back in the days when he expected a coast to the Democratic presidential nomination.
He had the money, the endorsements and a careerist staff comfortable in the corridors of power. Potential rivals concluded that it would be foolish to challenge him. And his airy campaign slogan of "practical idealism" encapsulated just what Mr. Gore wanted the world to know about him: he was pragmatic yet optimistic, visionary even. 
 But his glide to the nomination hit a brick wall -- in the person of Bill Bradley -- and the common assumptions about Mr. Gore's once-inevitable candidacy have shattered. It is hard now to think of a candidate who has tried more transformations in a shorter period.
Now with the Iowa caucuses just four weeks away, Mr. Gore faces what could be the most critical weeks of his 23-year political career. The frantic primary pace after Iowa, taking in New Hampshire, New York, California and the Deep South by mid-March, will most likely reveal whether his self-makeover and the doubts he has tried to raise about Mr. Bradley have worked, or whether he will be denied what he once viewed as his rightful "promotion."
Gore strategists believe that the vice president, who already has a lock on hundreds of the so-called superdelegates to the Democratic National Convention and is ahead in the national polls, can win the nomination under several scenarios.
But they say Mr. Bradley can win under only one -- by making a strong showing in Iowa on Jan. 24 and winning in New Hampshire a week later. Without those states, especially New Hampshire, whose voters tend to favor insurgents, Mr. Bradley would be hard pressed to convince the rest of the country that he is a winner.
"If they do not stop us there, we will not be stopped," a top Gore strategist said. "They understand that."
Mr. Gore is leading Mr. Bradley in Iowa polls by 20 percentage points and claims a strong organization there. But with Mr. Bradley pouring everything into Iowa next month, including more than $800,000 for television and radio commercials and a full schedule of daily appearances, the Gore campaign says it intends to match him dollar for dollar to make sure that lead does not slip away.
Gore advisers do not yet know how much time Mr. Gore will spend in Iowa because he also needs to campaign in New Hampshire, where the most recent poll showed him behind Mr. Bradley by 12 points. Their hope is that if Mr. Bradley fails in Iowa the loss may prompt some supporters to cross party lines and vote for Senator John McCain, a Republican, in New Hampshire.
Darrell West, a political scientist at Brown University, said the stakes were higher for Mr. Bradley than for Mr. Gore in New Hampshire.
"Bradley really does have to win it because New England should be a very good place for him," Mr. West said. "It has a tradition of independence, and the Northeast is the most liberal region in national politics."
But Mr. Bradley's lead in New England is not replicated across the country, and in most states, Mr. Gore is ahead by healthy margins.
Mr. Gore is laboring under the impression, voiced by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York in his endorsement of Mr. Bradley, that he cannot get elected in the fall against the leading Republican, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. Mr. Gore has lagged behind Mr. Bush in hypothetical matchups, and although that gap is narrowing, even Mr. Bradley does better against Mr. Bush in some states than Mr. Gore does.
Though he moved his campaign to Nashville from Washington, pared his staff, cut salaries and shed the off-putting, cumbersome entourage that once enveloped him on the campaign trail, Mr. Gore is still burdened by his aura as a cautious, calculating Washington insider.
Even more galling to the Gore staff is that the man he is campaigning against spent 18 years in the Senate, is bankrolled by Wall Street and has still managed to cast himself as the nonestablishment, noncalculating nonpolitician.
Peter Hart, a pollster not affiliated with any campaign, said his most recent surveys showed that 38 percent of voters nationally had a positive view of Mr. Gore while 35 percent had a negative view. By contrast, he said, Mr. Bradley had a positive rating of 42 percent and a negative rating of 10 percent.
"Al Gore has a lot of work to do to warm up the electorate," Mr. Hart said. "He is perceived as a politician, who comes across more with a rotelike performance than a human performance, and while that may have changed over the last month and a half, I'm not sure the electorate has seen that."
These numbers, combined with the simultaneous Bradley surge and Mr. Gore's disappointing poll results in the hypothetical race against Mr. Bush, sent Mr. Gore into a tumult of reinvention at the end of September and spawned a painfully public makeover. The competition jolted him out of his blue suit, out of his predictable stump speech and out of the arms of Bill Clinton. The remodeling was so extensive that it raised questions of his essential self and whether he was a subservient "beta" male who could morph into a dominating "alpha" male.
In addition, the continual recalibrating and focus on the performance aspects of politics began to overshadow what his supporters saw as his strongest assets: his experience and command of the issues.
That point seemed to be at the heart of the heated exchange between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley in their Dec. 19 debate on "Meet the Press." Hoping to unmask Mr. Bradley as a conventional politician who could not survive without high-priced television spots, Mr. Gore proposed that both he and Mr. Bradley drop all 30-second commercials and instead hold twice-a-week debates.
Mr. Bradley spurned the offer, as the Gore camp expected he would, and ridiculed it as a gimmick. "The point is, Al," he said derisively, "and I don't know if you get this, but a political campaign is not just a performance for people, which is what this is, but it is, rather, a dialogue."
For Mr. Gore, the offer was about more than performance, or even saving money on commercials. He wanted to show himself as the true "reformer" and paint Mr. Bradley as beholden to the status quo. Despite the negative press reviews of thetheatrics, Gore advisers said they were pleased with the gesture because the public did not like 30-second commercials, even if it got most of its information from them.
"I think people are sick of these old advertisements and the old approach to campaigning," Mr. Gore said a few days later on the PBS program "The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer." He dismissed campaign commercials as "filled with fuzzy images and little, short slogans" and cast Mr. Bradley as cautious and timid, precisely the words often used to describe Mr. Gore.
Curtis Gans, director of the nonpartisan Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, said that the Gore campaign was determined to portray Mr. Bradley as just another politician. "What Gore was trying to establish in that debate was that Bradley couldn't run above it all," Mr. Gans said.
Whether or not Mr. Gore succeeded, many analysts say that his aggressive approach has thrown Mr. Bradley off his game. "Gore has stemmed the bloodletting," Mr. West said. "He's been a better candidate."
Mr. Gore has also sought to draw Mr. Bradley into an argument over policy details -- and away from the former basketball star's big themes and compelling personal story.
"Bradley was saying to people, 'Here's who I am,' " Mr. Hart said. "People aren't going to pick a president on the basis of that. At this point, I don't know that Bradley has the message that overrides the constituency groups that Gore has put together. Gore has the backbone of the Democratic Party -- women, labor, minorities."
Mr. Gore has been working to solidify that base, with his sharp attacks on Mr. Bradley's proposals. In particular, he has warned relentlessly that Mr. Bradley's health care proposal would "shred the social safety net," because it would eliminate Medicaid; he does not mention that Mr. Bradley has proposed a replacement for Medicaid.
Although Mr. Gore has been running behind in New Hampshire polls, he has cause for optimism. After New Hampshire, attention turns to the March primaries in New York, Ohio, California and a dozen other states. Mr. Bradley could receive a tremendous lift by winning in New York, perhaps his best state after New Hampshire, but polls in California show Mr. Gore strongly ahead.
Beyond that, Mr. Gore has the underlying advantage of official party support and the endorsement of labor, including the teachers' unions. He has locked up endorsements from more than 520 of the 799 superdelegates to the convention. These are the governors, senators, members of Congress and other party worthies who are automatically delegates. Mr. Bradley has endorsements from about 20 superdelegates.
The first to claim 2,169 delegates wins the nomination; without a single vote yet cast, Mr. Gore is nearly a quarter of the way there.
Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist based in California and not affiliated with either campaign, put it this way: "Bradley almost has to get a nuclear blast out of Iowa and New Hampshire to carry him out of March 7 and March 14."
After Iowa and New Hampshire, he said, "you begin to play to the vice president's strength, which is broad support across many demographic groups. Even in New York the numbers are moving for Gore."
But other challenges remain. In voter surveys, Mr. Gore ranks poorly in the category of leadership. On money, he has two problems. He is vulnerable to charges of overzealousness in raising it at a Buddhist temple, and vulnerable to concerns that he might not have enough of it to campaign effectively against Mr. Bush through the summer.
In addition, if Mr. Gore wins the nomination, he may have to convince moderate swing voters that he is not as liberal as he may have seemed in his fight with Mr. Bradley.
"Bradley has forced Gore to the left on a wide range of issues, from education to health care to gay rights," Mr. West said. On education, he has promised to increase federal spending to $115 billion over 10 years. He is now framing his health-care plan as one that would lead to universal coverage, as Mr. Bradley proposes, and he has followed Mr. Bradley in his public support for allowing gays to serve openly in the military.
Ominously, a Pew Research Center poll on Dec. 16 found Mr. Gore losing a hypothetical matchup against Mr. Bush, 55 percent to 40 percent, with two important segments of the traditional Democratic base -- women and senior citizens -- favoring Mr. Bush.
But perhaps no challenge is stickier than what to do about Mr. Clinton. Mr. Gore seems caught in a revolving door of walking out on his mentor and then walking back in. Mr. Clinton is a strong force in mobilizing black voters for Mr. Gore. But he is also a drag on Mr. Gore with other voters, especially the independents and Republicans whom Mr. Gore would need in a general election.
"Al Gore's biggest problem is that he represents the equivalent of a Clinton third term," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for the Bush campaign. "And no one is of a mind to give Bill Clinton a third term."
 
AT A GLANCE: The Gore Campaign
 
HEADQUARTERS Nashville
STAFF SIZE 160 full-time paid workers.
TOP CAMPAIGN STAFF Chairman is Tony Coelho, a former congressman from California. Campaign manager is Donna Brazile, a veteran political organizer. Top media strategists are Carter Eskew, Bob Shrum and Tad Devine, longtime Democratic advisers.
CASH ON HAND The campaign refuses to release an estimate, but at the end of September, it had about $10 million.
PROMINENT ADVISERS Chief domestic policy adviser is Elaine Kamarck, formerly of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, now with the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Others who work closely with Mr. Gore are Karenna Gore Schiff, his older daughter; Naomi Wolf, the feminist author, and Andrew M. Cuomo, the housing secretary. He talks informally with several other advisers, including Henry L. Gates, Harvard professor, on racial issues; Robert F. Kennedy Jr., on the environment; Gov. Gray Davis of California, on education; Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, on agriculture, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, on general political matters. Among his closest associates are Tom Downey, the former congressman from Long Island who is now a Washington lobbyist.
BEST MOVES SO FAR Locking up the support of the Democratic establishment early so that he staved off all but one challenger for the nomination; amassing most of the superdelegates early; revamping his campaign in September with a renewed sense of vigor; winning the endorsement of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
WORST MOVES SO FAR He says his biggest mistake was exaggerating his role in the creation of the Internet. More broadly, he underestimated the Bradley challenge; he started his campaign on K Street, Washington's corridor of power and influence, and coasted for months with a bloated staff and a sense of entitlement to the nomination.
CHALLENGES AHEAD Erasing doubts about his electability in the fall; escaping his association with his impeached political benefactor, Bill Clinton, but getting credit for the booming economy; shedding the image of a career politician and appearing less programmed.
 
State of the Campaigns
 
This is the second in a series of status reports on the campaigns of the top contenders for the Democratic and Republican nominations as they enter the primary season. Next: The Bush campaign.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The competition with Bill Bradley has jolted Vice President Al Gore out of his blue suit. The weeks ahead will tell whether he has impressed voters. (Associated Press)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); SUPERDELEGATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



688 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Another Model for Schools

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Schools on military bases, run by the Department of Defense, have a better record than most public schools in this country. Student test scores are high. Black and Hispanic children far outperform those elsewhere. Children from poorer families do almost as well as the better-off.
I learned about the base schools in an article by Daniel Golden in The Wall Street Journal last week. It was an eye-opening piece, reporting remarkable facts about a little-known institution and leaving us with important questions about what makes those schools work and how our society can learn from their success. 
 The Pentagon has 71 schools for children of service members at bases in this country, and 153 overseas. In the last six years, pupils have taken 13 National Assessment of Educational Progress tests; in 12 their results were above the national mean. More than 80 percent of the graduates go on to college, compared with the national figure of 67 percent.
Of the 34,000 students in the domestic base schools, more than half qualify for free or reduced-price lunches because of low family income. They did almost as well as other students in demonstrating writing proficiency.
Forty percent of the domestic students are black or Hispanic. On writing proficiency, 26 percent of the black children scored at or above passing level, compared with 7 percent nationally; 32 percent of the Hispanics did, compared with 10 percent nationally.
Mr. Golden's story quoted Roy Truby, executive director of the board that administers the National Assessment tests, on those results: "This debunks the notion that demography is destiny."
How is it done? The article mentioned a number of distinctive factors.
One is money. The domestic schools spend $7,279 per pupil, 23 percent more than public schools do on average. Among other things, the money goes for art and music classes -- which have been trimmed in many public schools as marginal extras but which I think are a vital part of the learning atmosphere. And some goes for technology: more computers for the students.
Parent involvement is a second factor. The military gives parents of children in base schools an hour off a week or a half-day a month to volunteer in the schools, and many do.
A third is discipline. If a student misbehaves and moderate measures do not work, a parent will be called in for a conference. If he or she does not show up, the school may get in touch with his or her commanding officer. Enough said.
Some of the practices that help account for the good showing of the base schools could readily be duplicated in ordinary public schools. If a community is able to spend more on its schools -- and, crucially, has the political will to do so -- students may benefit.
Other elements are peculiar to the military. We would not want a school principal to telephone a private employer of a parent who has not come in for a conference about a misbehaving child.
Underneath the particular reasons for the performance of the base schools there are, surely, larger social factors. For one, military families may have modest housing, but they are not likely to live in the desperate ghettos that exist in our inner cities. To put it mildly, it is harder for a child to learn when she lives amid decay and danger.
The gap between high and low incomes is less stark among military personnel, and less distorting, than in our civilian society today. The difference between rich and poor school districts is a major problem for public schools in many states. There are one-parent families in the military, but probably not so many as in civilian America.
Finally, I think there is a deeper sense of community among military families. The free market and the race to get ahead have given us, along with their economic benefits, an atomized society. We do not care for each other as we believe, perhaps romantically, Americans once did.
We do not want to be militarized as a nation. But we have to recognize that the military is one of our most successful institutions: profoundly effective in achieving racial integration in the services and now, we find, in educating its children. We should be able to learn from its successes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (79%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (79%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY DANIEL GOLDEN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



689 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3450 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Diversity Slows Traditional Political Climb

SERIES: THE NEWCOMERS -- Last of three articles: Outsiders to Insiders

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
As a teenager, Morshed Alam dodged enemy soldiers to deliver food to Bangladeshi independence fighters. And as a student at Dhaka University in the mid-1970's, he endured police beatings to organize pro-democracy demonstrations against the newly formed nation's military regime.
So it is hardly surprising that Mr. Alam dived headlong into American politics soon after immigrating to Queens 15 years ago. In 1996, he became the first Bangladeshi on a New York City community school board. In 1998, he challenged an entrenched Republican state senator. And when the county Democratic organization opposed his candidacy, he built his own insurgent political club. 
 "Politics is the same everywhere in the world," said Mr. Alam, who lost the 1998 race but plans to run again next year. "Nobody wants to give up their power. But times are changing."
Ambitious and impatient, sour on local Democrats but enthusiastic about democracy, Mr. Alam is a prime example of a new breed of immigrant politicians from Asia, the West Indies and Latin America who are beginning to take their places at the city's table of power, just as Italian and East European Jewish immigrants did 90 years ago.
Some, like Mr. Alam, are rebelling against established politicians. Others are rebuilding dying political clubs. Still others are entering politics the old-fashioned way by running for ground-floor offices, like a spot on the school board, competing in races that often draw yawns from native-born politicians.
They are scoring small but significant successes. Dominicans control the Democratic clubs of Washington Heights. Asian-Americans hold five elected judicial positions and 15 seats on nine different school boards. And there are now eight people of West Indian descent in the City Council and State Legislature.
But the new immigrants have yet to reach the higher rungs of the city's political ladder. No Asian-Americans, West Indians or Latin Americans in New York City are Democratic county leaders, members of Congress or strong contenders for citywide office. Oddly enough, the thing they are celebrated for, their extraordinary diversity, has weakened their political strength.
Today's immigrants come from more countries and speak more languages than the last great wave of European immigrants. They are more economically varied, with highly educated and skilled people among their ranks. And more than their predecessors, they are eschewing homogenous enclaves, scattering to neighborhoods across the city.
Fractured and dispersed, they have proved more difficult to unite into political movements. In New York, no group approaches the influence of Cuban immigrants in Miami, Mexican immigrants in San Antonio or even Asian-Americans in San Francisco, whose political power has been amplified by their more concentrated numbers.
"There hasn't been a citywide candidate who can jell the immigrants, partly because it is such a diverse community," said John Mollenkopf, a professor of history at the City University of New York.
But the city's political landscape is changing in ways that could catapult more immigrant politicians into office. In 2001, term limits will force 36 of the 51 City Council members from office. Presented with that historic opportunity, political analysts predict, large numbers of immigrants will be registering voters and building organizations -- trying to rouse communities many veteran politicians once felt safe to ignore.
And the immigrants will be there for the rousing. Since 1996, record numbers have applied for citizenship, spurred by Congress's decision to end welfare benefits for certain noncitizens and by the advent of dual citizenship in countries like the Dominican Republic and Colombia, which send large numbers of immigrants to America.
Mr. Alam, a cheerful, rail-thin man of 42 who is an environmental chemist for the city, is hoping to ride that wave to victory.
Last year, he challenged State Senator Frank Padavan, a 13-term Republican who had made an issue of the cost of social services for immigrants. When the Queens Democratic Party refused to support Mr. Alam, he recruited immigrants into his own organization, the New American Democratic Club. With a shoestring budget and little campaign experience, they knocked on doors, gave out literature and helped him win 41 percent of the vote.
A recent meeting of the club showed it to be as kaleidoscopic as the city itself. Among the 35 people eating chicken tikka and basmati rice at Mr. Alam's house in Jamaica were school board members from Korea and Taiwan; an Indian dentist and Pakistani professor; Roman Catholics from Colombia and Black Muslims from Brooklyn.
Their accents were as varied as their faces. They wore business suits, saris and flowing white robes. But they could clearly agree on one thing: it was time to have a voice, perhaps many, in American politics.
"We have to show them we belong," Elizabeth Aivars, a Venezuelan immigrant, told the group. "This is a political organization. We're not embarrassed to say that."
 
Getting Noticed
Jews and Italians Show the Way
On a November morning in 1914, hundreds of Jewish immigrants gathered along East Broadway in the chill before dawn, singing, dancing and hoping to catch a glimpse of their hero: Meyer London, a Socialist Party leader who had just been elected to Congress from the Lower East Side.
To those immigrants, Mr. London's election was a watershed. He was one of them, a new American who had come from Russia as a youth, the son of a print shop owner, a lawyer for garment workers. His election seemed to validate their yearnings for political influence and economic security.
Two years later, the city's Italian immigrant community elected its first member of Congress, Fiorello H. La Guardia. (Actually, La Guardia could claim a dual heritage; his father was Italian, his mother, Jewish. And in 1933, he was able to build a multi-ethnic, multiparty coalition to become mayor, the first Italian-American to do so.)
To political analysts today, there is an important lesson to be gleaned from London's and La Guardia's first elections: they came roughly three decades after the first waves of East European Jews began arriving in New York City. By that timetable, the Asian, Latin American and West Indian immigrants who began flowing into New York in the mid-1960's are not far behind.
"By the Russian Jewish time clock, 1999 is equivalent to 1915," said Philip Kasinitz, a Hunter College sociologist.
The Italians and Jews became politicized at different rates. Italians, like many Hispanic immigrants today, were relatively slow to naturalize, in part because many did not intend to make America their permanent home. Jews become citizens faster, in large part because they had no intention of returning to Europe. They also brought with them urban traditions of socialist politics and labor organizing that caught on with immigrants in New York City's working-class streets and sweatshops.
And while the Democratic Party was slow to recruit these Jewish and Italian immigrants, it eventually embraced them, and they it. By the 1950's, the old Democratic machine was dominated by Italians, particularly its last true boss, Carmine G. DeSapio. And Jews became important forces not only in the mainstream organization, but also in the reform clubs that produced Mayor Edward I. Koch.
In the 1960's, when strict immigration quotas were lifted, new waves of immigrants from Asia, Latin America and the West Indies began pouring into the city. And the very diversity of these immigrants has become a major hurdle not confronted by the Jews and Italians before them.
In 1933, when La Guardia was elected mayor, Italians and Jews together represented a third of New York's population. Today, Dominicans, the city's largest immigrant group, are roughly 6 percent of the population; West Indians as a group are about 8 percent. Chinese, the largest Asian group, are less than 4 percent. Unifying them will be a politician's nightmare.
The new immigrants face another challenge: the Democratic Party has been on a steady downward trend. Reform politicians have weakened the party's control over patronage, a fundamental recruiting tool. The modern welfare state has made the clubs' rudimentary social services seem redundant. Paid consultants have taken over the work of running campaigns, reducing the need for immigrant volunteers.
"We can't even fix a parking ticket," said James McManus, whose great-uncle founded the McManus Midtown Democratic Association on West 44th Street more than 90 years ago. "It's no wonder people don't come around anymore."
But for all the obstacles, the new immigrants have had their triumphs. Just this decade, the Dominicans have come to dominate politics in Washington Heights, one of the most concentrated immigrant enclaves.
Dominicans virtually control the three local Democratic clubs and the local school board. They have elected one of their own, Guillermo Linares, to the City Council, and another, Adriano Espaillat, to the State Assembly. And when Representative Charles B. Rangel retires, many local party officials predict, the area is very likely to elect the first Dominican to Congress.
And in the Bronx, the last of the city's true political machines, the county Democratic committee, which is dominated by Puerto Ricans, is trying to build citywide immigrant support behind Borough President Fernando Ferrer, who is considering running for mayor in 2001. He is a long shot, but his efforts may lay the foundations for an immigrant candidate to seek citywide office in the future. And perhaps, like La Guardia, that first successful citywide candidate will have roots in more than one immigrant group.
"This is a group of people who are hungry, who are ready for ownership of a city that has not always been kind to them," said Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the county chairman.
 
Breaking Out
Electoral Success As a West Indian
Who, many historians ask, will be the new immigrants' Meyer London?
One of the strongest candidates would seem to be a bespectacled, pixieish, hard-charging mother from the island of Jamaica: City Councilwoman Una Clarke of Brooklyn, who is aggressively raising money and courting support for a potential challenge to Representative Major R. Owens, a nine-term Democrat, next year.
"They are pushing me to run," she says of her fellow West Indians, pretending she hasn't tried to stoke such talk. "Their plot is to push me so far that I cannot turn back."
In her drive for recognition, Mrs. Clarke, 64, clearly reflects the desires of many of the city's 600,000 West Indians -- particularly in Flatbush and Crown Heights -- to see their growing population translated into political power beyond the City Council or State Legislature. But by taking on Mr. Owens, who is African American, a Clarke campaign could also place her into conflict with central Brooklyn's other major voter bloc.
In the past, politicians from the West Indies -- including Representative Shirley Chisholm, an immigrant from Barbados who represented the 11th Congressional District in the 1970's -- generally viewed themselves as African-American leaders first and Caribbeans second. But for Mrs. Clarke, being from the West Indies seems to come first.
Indeed, Mrs. Clarke, who must leave the Council in 2001 under term limits, has built her career on issues related to the West Indies. In the Council, her signal achievement was to legalize the unlicensed vans that are owned mainly by West Indian immigrants. And recently, she led a delegation to Washington to lobby for trade rules that would benefit West Indian banana growers.
She also aggressively courts immigrant voters, filling her weekends with visits to West Indian festivals and interviews on local radio shows. A service in Harlem commemorating the day of Bahamian independence was typical. Midway through the event, the nation's consul general, Dr. Doswell Coakley, spotted Mrs. Clarke in the second row -- an easy task, given her bright red pillbox hat.
"Una Clarke is term-limited and moving on to other things," Dr. Coakley told the crowd as Mrs. Clarke covered her face with red-gloved hands in mock horror. "She tells me she is Caribbean first, and that we keep her in the fore of our thoughts. We shall."
Mrs. Clarke and her husband came to the United States in 1959 as students, had two children and decided to stay. Politics seemed to come naturally. She first got involved in Parent-Teacher Associations, then helped form an insurgent Democratic club that included Mr. Owens. Later she became head of a community group called the Caribbean Action Lobby.
And in 1991, after the city created a majority-West Indian Council district in central Brooklyn, she defied the county's black-dominated Democratic organization, which supported an American-born black candidate, and won the seat.
"I never saw bias until I ran in 1991," Mrs. Clarke said recently. "When I entered office, the street talk was, 'Why do these West Indians feel they have to be in politics?' "
Now, her daughter, Yvette, 34, is considering running for her Council seat. More than the mother, the daughter moves seamlessly between two worlds. "How do you like my daughter?" Mrs. Clarke asked an acquaintance recently in the lilting voice that marks her as a West Indian immigrant. "Is she an all-American girl? I'm getting there myself. It's taken a long time, but I'll get there."
 
Working Together
Asian Immigrants Look to Coalitions
The gathering of the North Flushing Civic Association was much like the dozens of civic association meetings held every month in Queens. A group of 60 middle-class homeowners, upset about a proposed Salvation Army church on 32nd Avenue, fired testy questions about increased traffic and ruined vistas at church officials.
But there was something different about this event: the man running it. He was John Liu, a 32-year-old immigrant from Taiwan, the association's president and one of just four Asian-Americans in the room. It is often that way for Mr. Liu, who is trying to become the first Asian-American on the City Council.
While immigrant candidates in heavily concentrated immigrant communities like Washington Heights or Flatbush can afford to focus on their fellow countrymen, Asian-Americans in Queens cannot. Not only are Asian-Americans a minority in most Queens communities; many do not vote. Even in Flushing, where Asian-Americans are nearly half the population, they represent less than 20 percent of the registered Democrats. The rest either are not citizens or have registered as independents or Republicans, making them ineligible for the Democratic primaries that usually determine elections here.
Don Nakanishi, director of the Asian-American Studies Center at the University of California at Los Angles, says that while Asian-Americans are quick to naturalize, they are slow to register to vote. The reasons he gives include a strong emphasis on work over other activities, and a fear of politics from living in authoritarian Asian societies.
Mr. Liu, an actuary, learned those lessons the hard way. In 1997, he was one of two Asian-American Democrats who challenged City Councilwoman Julia Harrison, a Democrat who had sharply criticized Asian-American business owners in Flushing on a variety of issues, including not posting signs in English. The two split the Asian-American vote, making it easier for Mrs. Harrison to win re-election with just 48 percent of the vote.
With Mrs. Harrison required to step down in 2001, Mr. Liu is working much harder to gain support among non-Asians -- not an easy task when many longtime residents bristle at the rapid growth of Flushing's Asian-American population.
So he fills his evenings and weekends with political events where he can meet and greet the borough's Democratic cognoscenti and voters. In addition to his civic association, he sits on the boards of the Queens Symphony and a handful of Democratic clubs, including one linked to the most powerful official in his Council district, Assemblyman Brian M. McLaughlin, whose support he hopes to win.
A stocky, effervescent man with a boyish face and the kind of boundless energy a good politician needs, Mr. Liu arrived in Flushing at the age of 5 when his father, a bank executive, was transferred to New York. Back then, the family was among the neighborhood's only Chinese.
"I didn't want to speak Chinese," he recalled in his unaccented English. "I wanted to be white."
But at the State University of New York in Binghamton, he became active in the Asian-American organization. Angry that the group was receiving far less financing than others, he and friends campaigned to pack the student assembly with Asian-Americans. They won, and the Asian Student Union got a $10,000 budget increase.
Five years ago, he and his wife, a nuclear engineer, bought an 80-year-old Colonial-style home just a few blocks from where he grew up. Sometimes he recalls the racial slurs of his childhood as he walks door to door, trying to drum up support for his incipient campaign.
"People say to me: 'I'm Italian. You are going to know what I need?' " he said. "I say: 'You need regular garbage pickup. You need the schools to be good. And you know what? That's what I want, too.' "
 
Joining Ranks
Hell's Kitchen Club Takes Latin Flavor
The McManus Midtown Democratic Association on West 44th Street has the musty, other-era feel of someone's well-kept attic. Outside, a red-haired man sells J.F.K. buttons. By the door hangs an oversize drawing of George Washington Plunkitt, the salty Hell's Kitchen district leader whose blunt advocacy of "honest graft" was Tammany Hall's turn-of-the-century motto. Old men sit watching television.
But on a recent evening, there was a distinctly new New York feel to the club's clientele. A family of Mexicans sat on folding chairs inside the door, awaiting help with a housing matter. A few paces away, a club member filled out immigration forms for a Colombian woman. And in the back, a Brazilian man leafed through a sheaf of job openings at city agencies.
Carlos Manzano, the club president, looked on happily. "I did my homework," he said, referring to the job listings he had compiled. "That's what Carmine DeSapio told me. Do your homework."
In one sense, the 33-year-old Mr. Manzano, who builds and manages World Wide Web pages for a living, is something of a political throwback, the last of a dying breed. But in another, he may be the model for something new: immigrants trying to revive the city's political clubs.
Mr. Manzano, who emigrated from Colombia in 1985, joined the club 11 years ago as a student at Queens College, simply because he wanted to learn about American-style politics. He was the club's second Hispanic member. But over the next few years, he recruited other immigrants, largely by providing basic services: citizenship classes, free legal services and assistance in navigating the city bureaucracy.
It was not quite like the old days, when clubs could put a supporter's nephew on the city payroll or get a friendly judge to go easy on a particular case. But the club's Hispanic membership grew steadily to 600, about half of its total.
This Latinization drew grumbles from some of the older Irish and Italian stalwarts. But the effort had the blessing of Mr. McManus, who had installed Mr. Manzano as president and helped elect him a district leader. To him, Mr. Manzano represents not just the future of his club, but of New York City politics.
"Nobody gave the Irish and Italians anything," Mr. McManus said, adding, "So I've been waiting for someone like Carlos to come along and do the same thing for poor and working-class Hispanics."
With that in mind, Mr. Manzano, whose ever-crisp attire and dignified bearing seem as old-fashioned as his politics, ran last February for City Council in a heavily white district that extends from West 74th Street into Greenwich Village. Derided as "the machine candidate" by his opponents, he finished second in a field of four.
Since then, he has received feelers from other Hispanic leaders about running as a pan-Hispanic Council candidate in Queens. More appealing to him is spending nights at the club. As he prepared to close down at 10:30 on a recent evening, a frail looking, elderly woman walked in and asked for a private meeting.
As they emerged from their talk a few minutes later, the woman began to toddle off, then stopped and gave Mr. Manzano a kiss on the cheek. "You will take care of that, right?" she asked. "Cause if you don't, who will?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Politics is the same everywhere in the world. Nobody wants to give up their power. But times are changing." MORSHED ALAM -- Founder and President, New American Democratic Club, Jamaica, Queens (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); "I never saw bias until I ran in 1991. When I entered office, the street talk was, 'Why do these West Indians feel they have to be in politics?' " UNA CLARKE -- City Councilwoman (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); "People say to me: 'I'm Italian. You are going to know what I need?' I say, 'You need regular garbage pickup. You need the schools to be good.' " JOHN LIU -- President, North Flushing Civic Association (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BANGLADESH (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); BANGLADESH (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTIONS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; WEST INDIAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT IMMIGRATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); COUNTIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); TRENDS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



690 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Spurs Call for New Zoning

BYLINE: By MARCIA BIEDERMAN 

 BODY:
There are no holiday decorations at the Family Grocery store on Post Avenue in the Inwood section of Manhattan. The small bodega is still festooned with the pennants that announced its opening a year ago. The city has ordered the store to close because it violates zoning laws, and the owners are selling what they can in a race with the padlock.
"It's a disaster for us," said Ariel Acevedo, estimating that he and three siblings will lose nearly all of the $70,000 they invested in the store if it is closed on Jan. 31, as the Department of Buildings has threatened. He said he had no inkling that the area was not zoned for commercial use when he rented the space, which had previously been rented by another bodega. The landlord, as is customary, held the certificate of occupancy, and "he didn't say I would have a problem," Mr. Acevedo said. 
 A barber shop, a travel agency and a beeper store that occupied other ground-floor units in the five-story walkup have moved out since they were cited, like Mr. Acevedo, for zoning violations.
Things are indeed confusing in Inwood and Washington Heights, where the side streets are studded with shoe stores, travel agencies and hair salons prohibited by zoning laws. Many say landlords have long rented units to commercial tenants in places zoned exclusively residential in order to charge higher rents, while the city has either ignored the practice or issued light fines and allowing the stores to stay open.
Now, though, Family Grocery has joined a growing list of out-of-zone businesses that the city has closed or sought to close.
The Department of Buildings acts only in response to complaints, and one was received about Family Grocery, said Paul Wein, a department spokesman. Washington Heights and Inwood have not been singled out, he said, but "we have increased our enforcement capabilities lately."
But some in the area feel the zoning laws have not kept pace with the rapid population growth at the northern end of Manhattan. So with the support of a city councilman, Guillermo Linares, a business group has organized an unusual coalition of landlords and tenants to try to change the area's zoning. Their rallying point is the intersection of Post Avenue and West 204th Street, where Family Grocery is situated.
In June, the Audubon Partnership for Economic Development, a nonprofit group, asked the city's Department of Planning to allow stores in 40,000 square feet of street-level space in the buildings at the intersection's four corners, which several businesses have abandoned recently after receiving zoning citations. The application is endorsed by three owners of properties on the corners, including Belmont Holding of Manhattan, Family Grocery's landlord. A spokeswoman for Belmont, Janet Falu, said the initiative had persuaded the Buildings Department to extend the deadline for Family Grocery's closing by two months while the Planning Department considers it.
"We're not trying to rezone the entire area," said Walther Delgado, executive director of the Audubon Partnership. But his group, which estimates that there are 3,500 small businesses in Washington Heights and Inwood, sees a need for broad change.
Sybil Dodson, chairwoman of Manhattan Community Board 12, said the plan had been presented to the board's executive committee, which wanted to study it further. She agreed that demand for services had grown, but said that "there is still a feeling that Inwood is still a residential area."
Mr. Linares said he was supporting the application because it is "a way to address the growing pains of the city." He said that the problem of outdated zoning extends beyond his districts -- Washington Heights and Inwood -- into other parts of the city, and that the Buildings Department's closings were not the solution.
"This is a bigger challenge than the way it is being handled," said the councilman, who has an office in Family Grocery's building. Ms. Falu of Belmont Holding said it was a legal use of space.
But George Sanchez, executive director of the Washington Heights Business Improvement District, said the routine disregard of zoning laws had created a "major public safety issue" in the neighborhood, because landlords who illegally convert residential units to commercial ones also use shoddy construction.
"Sometimes pipes have come crashing down from the ceiling of a store," said Mr. Sanchez, whose group last month began surveying the scope of the problem.
Some landlords apparently have not been deterred by enforcement efforts. Two weeks ago, a sign reading "Store For Rent" hung on a storefront at Fort Washington Avenue and 162nd Street, where the Buildings Department recently forced a grocery to close because of zoning. Gus Perry, a broker for Stein-Perry Real Estate of Manhattan, which had posted the sign, said it was a mistake.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miguel Urena, left, and Ariel Acevedo, co-owners of Family Grocery in Upper Manhattan. The city has ordered it to close. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (NYC); AUDUBON PARTNERSHIP FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (NYC); AUDUBON PARTNERSHIP FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; INWOOD (NYC); WASHINGTON HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING ZONING (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); RETAILERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); SHOE STORES (73%); FOOTWEAR (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); POPULATION GROWTH (64%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (51%); 

PERSON: BIEDERMAN, MARCIA ARIEL ACEVEDO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



691 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E;Page 1;Column 2;The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: Nary a Drama on Broadway;
Straight Plays Are Thriving, but Elsewhere in Manhattan

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The play "Epic Proportions" was greeted with mostly negative reviews two months ago and attracted only modest audiences, but its closing on Dec. 19 brought a historic moment to New York theater: for the first time, at least in memory, no recently written comedy or drama is running on Broadway.
The moment won't officially end until mid-January. "Wrong Mountain," a new play by David Hirson, started previews last night and is to open on Jan. 13, joining a robust Broadway field dominated by megamusicals. And a couple of other new works are planned for next year. But it is testimony nonetheless to a steady erosion in the tradition of the straight play on Broadway. In the 1998-1999 season, 10 new plays opened on Broadway, compared with 22 in 1978-1979 and a high of 30 in 1979-1980. 
 "If anybody cared, they would call it a crisis," said the playwright Arthur Miller. "I think people do care, but they feel helpless."
One could see this as an embarrassing moment for Broadway, given that it may be a stretch to fill the usual category of four nominees for the Tony Awards in the spring.
On the other hand, some say the decline of new plays -- particularly by Americans -- on Broadway is offset by the vitality in recent years of Off Broadway, where this season's hits include "Dinner With Friends" and "Fuddy Meers." Every year for the last five, Off Broadway has produced the Pulitzer Prize winning play: "Wit" (1999); "How I Learned to Drive" (1998); the musical "Rent" (1996), which moved to Broadway; "The Young Man From Atlanta" (1995); and "Three Tall Women" (1994). There was no prize for drama given for 1997.
According to this theory of shifting focus, the nexis of New York theater shifted permanently.
"Times Square is turning into something else -- a mass-entertainment district -- and that includes the kind of theater Broadway has now," said Ada Louise Huxtable, the architecture critic and historian. "I don't think that's all bad, as long as you don't lose what matters." What matters, she said, is that new work is still percolating elsewhere in the city.
Among the staples in the Theater District now are solo shows like "Dame Edna" ; splashy musicals like "The Lion King"; dance shows like "Fosse"; revivals like "The Price," "Kiss Me, Kate," and "Chicago"; and those long-running phenomena "Cats," "Les Miserables," "Miss Saigon" and "The Phantom of the Opera."
Paradoxically perhaps, this season's play vacuum comes when business on Broadway is booming; ticket sales are brisk, and theaters are booked. What's more, just last year there was a healthy crop of straight plays on Broadway. But those were either new plays written by foreigners ("Closer," "The Weir") imported after successes in London and Dublin or revivals like "Death of a Salesman" and "The Iceman Cometh," featuring Hollywood stars.
With plays now costing $1 million to $2 million to produce on Broadway, and mass audiences normally less attracted to them than to musicals, many Broadway producers are steering clear of new plays. Musicals are more expensive to put on ($5 million to $12 million, especially now that corporations like Disney have upped the ante), but they are more of a reliable draw.
'It's a little harder every year," said Todd Haimes, artistic director of the nonprofit Roundabout Theater Company, which produced "The Rainmaker," with Woody Harrelson, on Broadway this season. "It's hard to see right now what's going to turn that around. It's so expensive to produce these plays, and it's so difficult to recoup."
As for why audiences might be staying away from straight plays on Broadway, theater professionals offer several reasons: an average ticket price of $80 for the best seats; the decline in school programs that introduce students to the dramatic arts; the more hip appeal of unconventional theater downtown, and the allure of competition like television, films and the Internet.
Given this environment, one might ask why Dodger Theatricals has chosen to raise $1.5 million to bring "Wrong Mountain," a new straight play with no stars and no out-of-town tryout, to Broadway. "Beyond high-mindedness and good-deed doing and scoring spiritual points, I suppose there is some kind of testicular bravado," said Michael David, the president of the company, which has produced shows like "Footloose" and "Titanic."
Mr. David said he was bucking the trend because he believed that the play, a satire about the theater world, would find an audience. Nevertheless, the venture is unusual for his company. Dodger has done more shows on Broadway than anyone else in the last 10 years, he said, but only one drama ("Hamlet," featuring Ralph Fiennes). "I do think it becomes ever more daunting," Mr. David said. "Broadway has become so dangerous, so unwelcome, that one has to second-guess."
In addition to "Wrong Mountain," the other new plays to open later this season are "Taller Than a Dwarf," a comedy by Elaine May featuring the film stars Parker Posey and Matthew Broderick, and "Copenhagen," by the British playwright Michael Frayn. The producer Emanuel Azenberg said he planned to present "The Enigma Variations," a new play by Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt, on Broadway this spring starring Donald Sutherland, although he has yet to announce it.
The other plays expected are revivals of Tom Stoppard's "The Real Thing" and Sam Shepard's "True West."
With a bit of stretching one could argue that other works could qualify as new plays. These include Julie Taymor's new version of her 1996 production of Carlo Gozzi's "Green Bird" and Arthur Miller's "Ride Down Mount Morgan," to open this season, and Noel Coward's "Waiting in the Wings," which opened this month. The latter two have never been produced in New York, though both were written years ago (Miller's in 1991 and Coward's in 1960).
New musicals are better represented on Broadway. "James Joyce's 'The Dead' " recently moved to the Belasco Theater from Off Broadway. "Marie Christine" is now at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center, which is large enough for its productions to be eligible for Tony Awards and is therefore considered a "Broadway house." "The Wild Party" is to open this spring. The dance shows "Contact," and "Swing" also qualify as new musicals.
The last season raised hopes that nonmusicals were poised for a rebirth. It was often hard to get a ticket to plays like "Death of a Salesman," "The Iceman Cometh" and "The Blue Room."
"The audience came," said Mr. Azenberg, who produced "Iceman." "They came in droves."
But "Iceman" featured Kevin Spacey (and the production made a healthy profit with a steep top ticket price of $100). Similarly "Salesman" offered Brian Dennehy and "Blue Room" Nicole Kidman. And most stars agree to grace productions only for limited engagements.
Mr. Miller, whose plays have seen a steady stream of Broadway revivals, suggested that leaning on Hollywood does not bode well for Broadway. "Being a theater that relies completely on star draws is, generally speaking, not in a healthy condition," he said.
Mr. Azenberg said he was nervous about bringing "Enigma" to Broadway this spring. "We're terrified, absolutely terrified, because I have no guideposts anymore," he said. "We don't know that there is an audience."
Fifteen years ago, Mr. Azenberg said, he had six plays on Broadway, including Athol Fugard's "Master Harold . . . and the Boys" and Tom Stoppard's "Real Thing." "Now," he said, "I'm struggling to get one on."
Mr. Haimes suggested that there might not in fact be an audience, that wordy, often cerebral plays can no longer compete with flashy alternatives.
"The mass audience that's needed to make a commercial production successful is used to not having to think as much because of television and because of education problems nationally," he said. "Their idea of going to the theater is having an experience, seeing musicals and plays like 'Stomp' and 'Thwak.' Plays that require more work have trouble attracting a mass audience." ("Stomp" and "Thwak," like the long-running "Blue Man Group," are more performance pieces than narrative works.)
Some theater professionals suggest that tastes for such fare have begun to dictate content. If people are flocking to see "Beauty and the Beast" and "Jekyll and Hyde," the thinking goes, why not try to replicate such remunerative offerings?
"Producers are producing plays they think have a better chance of breaking even," Mr. Haimes said. "That is affecting the product that is ending up in their theaters."
One could argue that Broadway's current offerings are a throwback to the days of vaudeville. And several Broadway producers have talked about plans for summoning that era with a Broadway Hall of Fame at the Lyceum Theater that would feature videotaped segments of current Broadway shows as something of a tasting menu for tourists.
Some argue that ticket prices may be keeping people away, especially young, unseasoned theatergoers. And several producers have made an effort to set aside tickets at lower prices to attract this population. Mr. Azenberg said 150 seats at $20 each were set aside for performances of "Iceman."
Others argue that money is not the main obstacle, since the economy is so strong, and people are spending the same amount or more on other diversions.
Meanwhile at theaters downtown and west of Eighth Avenue, where ticket prices are considerably lower, new theaters are being created to accommodate the demand for stages.
"The plays have migrated to a different place," said George A. Wachtel, president of Audience Research and Analysis, a marketing group that specializes in the arts.
And new audiences have followed them. Whereas Off Broadway once connoted experimental, offbeat work, it is attracting more people from uptown and out of town. In 1997 non-New Yorkers amounted to 25 percent of the Off Broadway audience, up from 7 percent in 1981, Mr. Wachtel said. That figure is now close to what Broadway's out-of-town audience amounted to in 1980: 35 percent.
"Off Broadway is starting to approach where Broadway was 20 years ago," Mr. Wachtel said. "And the line between the two is diminishing."
Others say it is difficult to attract top talent to lower-paying, lower-profile Off Broadway productions: directors and designers as well as actors.
Some theater professionals expressed concern that even Broadway had suffered from a long-term brain drain to movies and television. "It completely depresses me because I think these forces are driving artists out of the theater," Mr. Haimes said. "There is no doubt that some of these people would have been the next Arthur Miller, would have been the next Tennessee Williams, and we'll never know that."
Some producers seem to be looking for ways to develop new audiences through school programs. And occasionally talk bubbles up about possible new ways to finance the Broadway theater, though no workable plan has emerged.
Still, Broadway veterans remain disheartened. "Time was when New York theater was the one the British looked to for inspiration," Mr. Miller said. "Now Broadway theater is suddenly the place where plays go to die. And it's too bad."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the dearth of new dramas and comedies on Broadway this season misstated the history of the comedy "Wrong Mountain," which is to open on Broadway in mid-January. It was presented in San Francisco in the fall; it is not opening without an out-of-town tryout.
The article also misstated the history of "The Ride Down Mount Morgan," which is headed for Broadway this season. It indeed had a previous production in New York, at the Public Theater in 1998. The article also misstated the opening date of "Epic Proportions," which closed on Dec. 19. It opened on Sept. 30, not two months ago.

 
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Lithgow, left, and B.D. Wong in "M. Butterfly" in 1988 at the Eugene O'Neil Theater. (Joan Marcus); (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. E1); The closing of "Epic Proportions" at the Helen Hayes Theater on Dec. 19 left no recently written drama or comedy running on Broadway. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. E5)
 
Chart: "More Singing and Less Speaking"
With some ups and downs, there has been a steady falloff in the number of nonmusical dramas and comedies playing on Broadway. These are the figures on productions by category for the Christmas weeks of 1979, 1989, and 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); WRITERS (77%); HISTORY (72%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR MILLER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999



692 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Time of Turmoil at Willy Loman & Co.

BYLINE: By CHARLES BUTLER 

 BODY:
For months, at work and in bed at night, Bob Carr agonized over the exodus of his insurance customers to Web sites that offered the same products at lower rates.
Since 1980, he had sold pension plans and 401(k) programs to businesses for the Equitable Life Assurance Society, often making more than $100,000 a year in commissions. But by last year, his income had shrunk to an annual rate of about $60,000, mostly because of competition from insurance-related Web sites like Quotesmith.com. 
 "It came to the point where I couldn't sleep and I couldn't envision myself getting up each morning and finding new clients," said Mr. Carr, 53, who lives in Westfield, N.J. So in November 1998, he quit in disgust, even though he had no job lined up. For six months, he searched for a sales position that would be "immune" from the Internet. Finally, in May, he landed one, with Parker Interior Plantscape, a company in Scotch Plains, N.J., that designs floral landscapes for office buildings and hotels. Now, instead of debating the benefits of whole-life versus term policies with customers, Mr. Carr consults with companies on whether palm trees or ficus will thrive better in their atriums.
While acknowledging that he has no green thumb, Mr. Carr says he also has no fears that customers will abandon him for the Internet. "Nothing can happen that can cause me to lose sleep," he said.
These days it is not just car dealers and retail clerks who fear for their jobs as the World Wide Web encroaches on their territory. Increasingly, people in traditional corporate sales jobs like insurance, hotels and newspapers and magazines are debating what will become of them as online selling takes off. Many of them, seeing what they view as the writing on the wall, are bailing out before they have to.
Eventually, many will have to. Sales of business-to-business products through Internet-based corporate networks are expected to increase from at least $95 billion this year to $500 billion in 2002, according to the GIGA Information Group in Cambridge, Mass. That would eliminate the need for many of the calls that corporate sales representatives make to purchasing managers.
"The lone-ranger salesman is getting rarer and rarer in the business-to-business world," said Neil Rackham, a consultant who wrote "Rethinking the Sales Force" (McGraw-Hill, 1999). "Face-to-face selling is very expensive, and because of that the Willy Loman becomes an expensive way to tell your customers about your product."
The Internet poses a long-term threat to the entire sales profession, one of the biggest parts of the American economy. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, America's 14 million sales representatives make up 12 percent of the work force. Robert Davenport, a vice president with Hay Management Consultants in Jersey City, says that percentage has held steady for nearly 15 years, but he and others predict that it will fall into the single digits within five years, meaning that several million jobs, mostly in retail, will disappear as consumers switch to buying online.
So far, corporate sales representatives have weathered the storm. But once big corporations get their online selling systems up to speed, or once the economy inevitably turns sour, John DeVincentis, a consultant based in Solebury, Pa., said, "then we will see some bloodletting."
Michael Pusateri, who spent 10 years in sales for Marriott hotels, working as a vice president for sales and overseeing the company's e-commerce business, is also among those who have chosen not to wait and see how the new economy might affect their careers. In April, he left Marriott to join Proxicom, a Web development company in Reston, Va., as head of sales and marketing. He says he was lured to the new industry more by its income potential than by any immediate fears of losing his hotel job. Still, as he debated making the change, he remembers asking himself, "Do I stay in the marathon and get the silver ring, or do I jump now and try to get the brass ring?"
He jumped, and it looks as if he got the gold ring. Since he joined Proxicom, where he has stock options, its stock has shot up from $13 to more than $90 this week. "If I lived my whole life at Marriott, I never would have made that much money," said Mr. Pusateri, who is 40.
Stephen Powell took the leap from hotel sales to an Internet company, too, but for different reasons. He had spent 26 years working at hotel chains like Loews and Sheraton. But as more companies were swallowed up in mergers, his sense of loyalty to his employer was replaced by a dread of losing his job, and when Sheraton, a division of Starwood Hotels and Resorts, asked him to relocate from Atlanta to the New York area, he took a buyout instead.
Three months later, he became vice president for global sales at PlanSoft, an Internet company that provides hotel information for companies planning corporate meetings. Since then, Mr. Powell, 49, has persuaded several other experienced hotel sales representatives to join him, including Susie Lichenstein, who spent 13 years with Sheraton.
"I'd rather be on this side of the fence than working in sales for a hotel company," said Ms. Lichenstein, who is based in Raleigh, N.C. "Once this type of product takes off -- and it could be 5 years or 15 -- you probably won't need all that manpower on the other side of the fence."
That sense of uncertainty weighs heavily on some career decisions. Mr. Carr had misgivings about leaving Equitable, which he says treated him well, but he knew that the Web's impact on his income would intensify. "I'm middle aged," he said, "so the question becomes: Do I do something now and be comfortable and earn a good living, or do I try to hang on and get to 55 or 57 and it's too late to start something new?"
He has not soured on the Web, though. He is using his new knowledge of plants to help design Parker's first Web site, and he has done some shopping online, though he admits to a twinge of guilt. "Some other salesman is suffering," he said, "because I can make my choice on the Internet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Pusateri joined Proxicom, a Web developer, after 10 years in sales at Marriott. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Writing on the Web"
Projections for business-to-business sales over the internet.
 
1999
Low estimate -- $95 billion
High estimate -- $112 billion
 
2000
Low estimate -- $208 billion
High estimate -- $308 billion
 
2001
Low estimate -- $350 billion
High estimate -- $580 billion
 
2002
Low estimate -- $500 billion
High estimate -- $800 billion
 
(Source: GIGA Information Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NSUR (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROXICOM; MARRIOTT HOTELS LIFE QUOTES INC (57%); GIGA INFORMATION GROUP INC (52%); GREEN THUMB (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROXICOM; MARRIOTT HOTELS GREEN THUMB (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SALESMEN; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRY PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNET & WWW (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); SALES & SELLING (89%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); LABOR FORCE (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: PUSATERI, MICHAEL; BUTLER, CHARLES MICHAEL BUTLER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



693 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2320 words

HEADLINE: The 800-Year-Old Dessert, and More

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
NO matter which way you slice the last millennium, a thousand years adds up to a lot of meals. Some were more memorable than others. For a majority of the human race, the challenge for most of the last 10 centuries was not eating well, but merely eating. Thin soup with a few vegetables was the plat du jour for the mass of humankind, but even for the lucky ones who could count on three substantial meals every day, dining rarely deserved much notice, judging by the written record. In the swirl of momentous events, food too often gets swept aside.
Only rarely does food break through to history's front page, but through the current millennium, it has been the pivot point for encounters and events -- some actual, some fictional -- that have resonated down the corridors of time. Not many people can explain the causes of the Franco-Prussian War, but nearly everyone feels the power of Proust's madeleine. The economics of Plymouth Colony feel remote, but the great dinner that became Thanksgiving lives on, a central fact of American life. 
 It would be foolish to try to name the greatest meals of the last thousand years. The historical record is too spotty. But it is possible to isolate a dozen moments that, for various reasons, still grip the imagination, define the human experience or seem, in retrospect, brimming with implication for the future.
Every age likes to imagine that it has invented everything. Yet, with the possible exception of frozen breakfast pizza, the 20th century cannot really take credit for too much in the food arena. Fusion is as old as the first European traveler to come back from the Middle East with a bagful of spices. Trendy restaurants have existed since the first French chefs, thrown out of work when the revolution erased the ancien regime, came up with the idea of hanging out a shingle and printing up a menu. Nouvelle cuisine, in the narrow sense, is a creation of the 1970's, but what could be more nouvelle than the movement codified in the writings of La Varenne and the other giants who developed haute cuisine?
If a tour of the last 1,000 years of eating feels eerily familiar, perhaps that's because styles change, but human appetite and behavior remain as fixed as the North Star.
 
1191: Slush in the Desert
During the Third Crusade, the Christian army, commanded by Richard the Lion-Hearted, presses within a few miles of Jerusalem and defeats the Saracens at Arsuf. It is hot. As a form of tribute, Richard's adversary, the great Saladin, sends him a cold treat, all the more startling given the desert setting. History's soft-focus lens obscures the dish. It is either a bowl of sherbet or a sharbat, a drink of rose water chilled with snow collected from the mountains of Lebanon. Either way, it is one of the first, and greatest, examples of East-West culinary exchange, and a seminal moment in the grand tradition of frozen desserts, one of the most universal of all foods. The Arabic word becomes the French "sorbet" and the Italian "sorbetto." The offspring of that Lebanese slush include the 7-Eleven Slurpee and ice cream in every form, from vanilla to jalapeno.
Richard gets the dessert but fails to capture Jerusalem.
 
1280: West Meets, and Eats, East
Marco Polo, traveling through the Mongol empire, becomes the first European to develop a fascination with Chinese cuisine, and as such, should be considered the patron saint of Sunday dim sum, if not the West's first foodie. In the city of Hangzhou, he finds restaurants specializing in blood soup, others that specialize in dishes made from organ meat and others that serve vegetarian Buddhist temple food. To give an idea of the vast quantities of food consumed in Hangzhou, he calculates the amount of pepper consumed every day and comes up with a figure of 43 cartloads, a cartload equaling 223 pounds.
Nothing gives him pause. In the same deadpan prose used to describe men with tails, he reports on the Tatar custom of mincing up raw beef or horsemeat and mixing it with onions and garlic. The dish has ever since been known as steak tartare. Contrary to legend, Polo does not bring back noodles to Italy. But takeout food in white cardboard cartons eventually spreads throughout the West.
 
1518: One Fat Englishman
In a single day of feasting, Henry VIII and his courtiers consume 11 beef carcasses, 6 sheep, 17 hogs and pigs, 45 dozen chickens, 15 swans, 6 cranes, 384 pigeons, 648 larks, 72 geese and 4 peacocks; the meat is flavored by 3,000 pears and 1,300 apples. Three thousand loaves of bread and 400 dishes of butter are also consumed. It is a substantial meal. By 1541, Henry's waist will expand from 37 inches to 57 inches.
In the age of exploration and mercantile globe-gobbling, Henry stands supreme as a symbol of unbridled appetite, with an insatiable hunger -- for power, for women, for gambling and for food. He is, without question, the man who ate everything. The image will become indelible when Charles Laughton portrays him on film seated at a banquet table and waving a giant leg of lamb in the air.
 
1549: Paris alla Fiorentina
On June 16, Catherine de' Medici formally enters Paris as the bride of Henry II. The ensuing celebrations include a feast organized around birds, including 30 peacocks, 21 swans, 9 cranes, 66 herons and 33 egrets, along with smaller birds, hares and rabbits. As a display of the city's power as a culinary center, the meal is unrivaled, reflecting the highly developed system of markets and specialized guilds and the wealth of ingredients that will soon give rise to haute cuisine. French ascendancy throughout much of the world will last nearly to the end of the millennium.
Catherine, a Florentine, will also touch off one of the longest-running controversies in food history. Her retinue includes Italian cooks, pastry makers, confectioners and distillers, and in her baggage are such novel ingredients as artichokes and parsley. With time, it becomes accepted that Italy (or, as Diderot's Encyclopedia put it, "that crowd of corrupt Italians who served at the court of Catherine de' Medici") taught France to cast off heavily spiced, sweet-and-sour medieval cooking and to develop the more refined, complex principles of haute cuisine. The Oxford Companion to Food relegates the theory to an article titled "Culinary Mythology." Italian scholars refuse to budge.
 
1621: New American Cuisine
Sometime between Sept. 21 and Nov. 9, the Pilgrims of Plymouth Colony sit down to dinner with Chief Massasoit and 99 braves from the Wampanoag tribe to celebrate the first harvest. Fowl are served, although it is not clear that turkey was on the menu. Other dishes, many of them provided by the Indians, are oysters, eel, corn bread, goose, venison, watercress, leeks, berries and plums. The Indians also bring popcorn, thereby initiating a longstanding American tradition of taking food to potluck dinners that costs virtually nothing but takes up a lot of space. Despite the absence of football games on television, the dinner goes smoothly. At the second Thanksgiving, in 1623, turkey, pumpkin pie and cranberries gain a place on the menu and never leave it. The multiethnic origins of the feast will later inspire Southwestern-style stuffings, Afrocentric side dishes and Asian glazes. In any language, it will translate into leftovers that achieve deep levels of obscurity in the refrigerator.
 
1671: Chef en Brochette
On April 24, the Prince de Conde receives Louis XIV, his cousin, at Chantilly, where the steward Vatel organizes a feast fit for the Sun King. But a small detail gone awry begins to gnaw at Vatel: because extra guests show up unexpectedly, two tables are left without roast meat, plunging Vatel, who has not slept for 12 nights running, into a deep depression.
The following day, Vatel waits expectantly for fish deliveries to arrive. When only one purveyor shows up, he turns to his assistant and says: "I shall not be able to live down this disgrace. I shall lose my reputation and self-respect."
Vatel goes to his room, props his sword against the door and falls on it, inflicting a mortal wound. The missing fish arrive soon after.
Antonin Careme, the great 19th-century chef, honors Vatel as one of the profession's martyrs. In the popular imagination, he remains the high-strung, perfectionist French chef par excellence, the kind who virtually dares diners to send a dish back.
 
1794: The French Take Boston
Anthelme Brillat-Savarin, aristocrat and gourmet, speeds northward from New York to Boston to try the menu at a new restaurant, Julien, where the consomme achieves overnight fame and earns its creator, formerly a chef to the archbishop of Bordeaux, the title "Prince of Soups." There is no velvet rope, and supermodels lie far off in the future, but Julien is nonetheless America's first hot restaurant, a gastronomic destination that introduces Americans to such fare as fondue and Perigord truffles. It spawns the thousand and one fancy French restaurants that will epitomize stylish dining in the United States for the next two centuries.
 
1843: Curse of the Cratchits
Dickens, the supreme poet of English food and drink, creates Christmas dinner for the ages in "A Christmas Carol." His evocation of holiday meals past and present is so powerful that most readers do not realize that several dinners are involved. The most famous is Bob Cratchit's. On a clerk's salary, Scrooge's oppressed employee manages to assemble a heartwarming meal of goose stuffed with onion and sage, accompanied by applesauce and mashed potatoes. Christmas pudding follows, along with roast chestnuts, apples, oranges and a jug of punch. Families around the world will experience high levels of stress and an undefined sense of failure trying to recreate the warm Dickensian glow year after year at Yuletide.
 
1903: New York Haute, on Horseback
On March 29, a select gathering of New York's rich and powerful turn up at Sherry's restaurant on Fifth Avenue to help C. K. G. Billings celebrate the completion of his new racing stables in Washington Park. The guests sit on horseback, and against a canvas backdrop depicting an English pastoral scene, they eat from trays attached to their saddles and sip Champagne through straws from bottles in their saddlebags. When it comes to excessive, swaggering display, New York once again raises the bar. The city's dining scene will continue to be defined by such power restaurants, although lavish feasting will give way to conspicuous nonconsumption, as the relationship between girth and social status goes into reverse. Important restaurateurs will continue to play the role of social gatekeepers.
 
1913: Little Cookie, Big Book
Proust's narrator, Marcel, recalls the moment when the crumbs of a madeleine soaked in lime tea reveal to him the great artistic project he must undertake. As the English food writer Jane Grigson later points out, that madeleine is deceptive. As food, there is nothing much to recommend it. It works its spell precisely because Marcel has dropped the habit of eating one with tea. When his mother offers him one unexpectedly, its taste unearths buried memories of Combray, the country town where Marcel went to visit his grandmother. The term "comfort food" does not yet exist, but this is it -- food whose power to nourish and sustain, even to flood the soul with joy, cannot be explained in terms of taste alone. Amateur cooks trying to recapture the Proustian moment discover that a madeleine is nothing more than a soft cookie.
If a tiny madeleine can generate six fat volumes, A. J. Liebling wonders, what would have resulted if the narrator had polished off a normal meal, say "a dozen Gardiners Island oysters, a bowl of clam chowder, a peck of steamers, some bay scallops, three sauteed soft-shell crabs, a few ears of fresh-picked corn, a thin swordfish steak of generous area, a pair of lobsters and a Long Island duck"?
 
1930: Hold the Linguine
Filippo Marinetti issues "The Manifesto of Futurist Cooking," calling for more chemicals, meat sculpture, the abolition of the knife and fork and absolute originality in all forms of food. He offers two recipes, Alaskan salmon in the rays of the sun with Mars sauce, and woodcock with Venus sauce. Some of his ideas are prescient. His proposal that diners be presented with an ever-changing array of canapes with 10 or 20 flavors to be tasted quickly anticipates the ambitious tasting menus of today's leading restaurants. His call for abolishing traditional mixtures in favor of experimentation with "new, apparently absurd mixtures" will be realized in French nouvelle cuisine. His demand for an end to pasta does not catch on, however.
 
1955: Today Des Plaines, Tomorrow the World
Ray Kroc opens his first McDonald's hamburger stand on April 15 in Des Plaines, Ill., after buying the rights to the McDonald's name from the owners of a hamburger stand in San Bernardino, Calif. The burgers are 15 cents. The fries are a dime. The rapid spread of the golden arches across the the United States and later all over the world will make burger-fries-Coke the most compelling food combination since loaves and fishes, and a powerful symbol of American commercial power. In 1999, Jose Bove, a French farmer, becomes a national hero when he leads a fleet of tractors that tear down part of the roof of a McDonald's under construction in Millau. The French nation rallies around the sentiment that "McDo" is the leading edge of American global domination and soulless Anglo-Saxon free-market values. As it happens, French children, like Japanese and Russian and Chinese children, love McDonald's and continue to eat at them. The company, which has restaurants in 115 countries on six continents, opens its 25,000th franchise in May 1999. The new millennium has Big Mac written all over it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DINNER EVOLVES -- In the last millennium, food has been relished, flaunted and eaten at greater speeds. Top: a scene from "A Christmas Carol," with Alastair Sim, upper left, as Scrooge. Far left: a McDonald's in the 1950's, and C. K. G Billings's horseback dinner at Sherry's, 1903. (Museum of the City of New York, Byron Collection; Photofest (top) ); MEALS OF YORE -- A guide to the cover illustration, clockwise from top: a dinner on horseback in New York; Catherine de' Medici takes Italian cuisine to Paris; Richard the Lion-Hearted tastes sorbet; the first Thanksgiving; Henry VIII's banquet; and burger-loving children help make McDonald's a success. (Seymour Chwast)(pg. F6)
 
Drawing (Seymour Chwast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (76%); FRANCE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (76%); FRANCE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS MILLENNIUM (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); CHRISTMAS (67%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (66%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM HENRY VIII (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



694 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Is Highest Since 1968

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
With jobs plentiful and stock prices soaring, consumer confidence rose in December to the highest level in three decades.
The Conference Board said yesterday that its index of consumer confidence rose to 141.4 this month, the second-highest reading in the 32 years that the figures have been kept by the organization, a business-financed study group. 
 The last time it was higher was October 1968, when it hit 142.3, as a combination of President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society programs and rising military spending on the Vietnam War created a guns-and-butter economic boom.
This time around, consumers are the driving force behind the booming economy. The latest evidence came yesterday in reports that holiday sales in malls and on the Internet were stronger than expected.
The International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group based in New York, said sales at malls rose a surprisingly strong 7.7 percent from Thanksgiving through Christmas, the best performance since 1992.
And shoppers made heavy use of the Internet this Christmas. Analysts estimate that online Christmas sales were four times the level a year ago, well above estimates that sales would double.
"Consumers are in very good spirits as the 20th century comes to a close," said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's consumer research center. "Healthy paychecks, continued low inflation and continued job opportunities will keep the economic expansion on its record-breaking course."
She said consumer confidence "if anything seems to be stronger" now than in 1968, adding: "There are no signals here that consumers have reached the bottom of their pockets."
The consumer confidence reading of 141.4 for December was considerably stronger than expected. Analysts had predicted that the index, which is based on a survey of 5,000 United States households, would dip to 135 in December from a revised 137 in November.
The report issued yesterday also said consumers continued to be optimistic about jobs. Some 16.4 percent of those surveyed said they expected more jobs to be created, while 10.4 percent anticipate fewer. The rest expect no change.
In Washington, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday that sales of existing homes surged in November after four consecutive months of declines. The group said this probably reflected an effort by homebuyers to lock in deals before mortgage rates climbed higher.
The association said sales of existing single-family homes rose 6 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.09 million units.
They expect existing-home sales to total a record 5.18 million units this year, which would be 4.4 percent higher than the record of 4.97 million units set last year.
If the current economic expansion, which began in March 1991, continues through February, as expected, it will become the longest in United States history. Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the nation's overall economic activity.
The current record economic expansion of 106 months -- February 1961 to December 1969 -- was fueled in part by heavy military spending for the Vietnam conflict.
With all the economy's strength as the year winds down, some say there are signs that activity has peaked.
"As strong as consumer spending has been, it is actually decelerating," said Mark Vitner, an economist at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. "It was stronger in the first half of 1999 than in the second half, and we expect it to weaken further next year."
As he put it: "In some ways, consumers are kind of shopped out." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (52%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; SHOPPING CENTERS; HOUSING; CHRISTMAS ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (96%); RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); THANKSGIVING (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



695 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
The biggest dampener of celebrations this New Year's Eve is turning out to be inflated prices.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. Edwin McDowell's e-mail is emcdowell@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SEATTLE officials attributed yesterday's cancellation of most of the city's New Year's Eve celebration to the possibility of terrorist acts, a possibility that no longer seemed quite so far-fetched after the arrest in Washington State two weeks ago of an Algerian man who has been charged with smuggling explosives from Canada.
In fact, concerns about terrorism and possible Year 2000 problems have caused many Americans to cancel airline and hotel reservations for this week's holiday, or caused them to stay away from airlines, hotels or crowds in the first place. 
 But so far the biggest dampener on celebrations has proved to be the highly inflated price tags for the parties and entertainment packages. And since midnight this Friday will not usher in the real millennium, which will not arrive until the stroke of 2001, the question is what, if anything, tour packagers, hotels, cruise ships and the like plan for next year.
To hear them talk, the answer is "smaller events," "lower prices" and "less hype." But don't bet on it. Even assuming a safe and disaster-free celebration this New Year's Eve, and no computer problems to worry about next year, there remains a full year for the spinmeisters to beat the drums for the absolutely, positively, all-new millennium. Didn't P. T. Barnum, who should know, have something to say about human gullibility?
This is not to suggest that New York and other big cities will resemble ghost towns come Friday. On the contrary, most still expect swarms of visitors and locals.
The Marriott Marquis in Times Square -- which received its first reservation for this New Year's Eve back in 1983, two years before it even opened -- has had a few inquiries about reservations for next New Year's Eve. (It won't accept any reservations for next New Year's Eve before Jan. 16.) And in contrast to the early clamor for hotel and cruise ship reservations for this New Year's Eve -- which resulted in hotels and cruise ships writing reservations in ledger books because their computers did not accept reservations more than a year in advance -- none of the hotels or cruise ships surveyed about their plans for welcoming in 2001 have anything approaching a waiting list.
In fact, many of the eager beavers who booked reservations for this New Year's Eve as early as 1998, before the rates for parties and cruises were established, were among the first to cancel when it came time to put down a deposit. Among the exceptions are Ed Woodyard, a New York resident who made that reservation at the Marquis back in 1983 and is scheduled to be there on Friday, and an Oregon family that four years ago booked the restaurant in the Space Needle in Seattle and will be allowed up there on Friday even though the park below the Space Needle will be locked at 6 p.m.
Most New York hotels expect to be full or close to it over this weekend, and presumably again this time next year. But if so, that will be largely because New York hotels, at least the better ones, usually fill up on New Year's Eve. But to insure they will be full, many hotels reduced their four-night minimum stays, slashed their room rates and turned many rooms over to discount reservation services. And three hotels -- the Millennium Broadway, Fitzpatrick Grand Hotel and Fitzpatrick Manhattan -- that offered to rent their buildings and staff over New Year's Eve for $1 million to $3 million did not receive any takers.
On the other hand, the Holiday Inn Wall Street has sold out all 138 rooms to seven corporations, including J. P. Morgan Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Credit Suisse and Merrill Lynch. The companies, which paid $1,350 a room for a three-day stay, will be monitoring their mainframes for any possible Year 2000 problems.
It is already apparent that despite a roaring economy and the mantra that "the millennium only comes once every thousand years," the public from Boston to Los Angeles and from London to Sydney has balked at high-priced packages.
By mid-summer, Minneapolis-St. Paul had canceled its "biggest New Year's Eve party ever" for lack of corporate sponsors. Cruise lines began discounting their high-priced millennium cruises. The Celebration 2000 party scheduled for the Jacob Javits Convention Center in Manhattan (at $1,000 to $2,500 a person) cut prices but still had to cancel for lack of interest.
In recent weeks, the $10,000-a-person package that included a flight on the Concorde to welcome in the year 2000 in Paris and New York was canceled after only four people had signed up. America's New Millennium celebration in Washington, with tickets ranging up to $2,000, was called off two weeks ago for lack of interest. Tour operators in London recently began discounting some package tours as much as 80 percent. And from Philadelphia to Phoenix, sales for many big-ticket celebrations have lagged badly behind.
Is there a lesson in all this? No doubt, but we can only wait and see what next New Year's Eve brings in the way of parties and prices. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOST NEW YORK HOTELS (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHIPS AND SHIPPING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; NEW YEAR; PARTIES (SOCIAL); ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS TERRORISM (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); ARRESTS (77%); AIRLINES (76%); TOUR OPERATORS (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SMUGGLING (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (56%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



696 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Burger King Recall Hurts Marketer's Stock

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 28

 BODY:
Shares in Equity Marketing Inc. fell as much as 23 percent today after Burger King recalled the company's ball-shaped Pokemon toys because a 13-month-old girl suffocated on one.
Equity Marketing shares closed at $12.3125, down $2.6875, or 18 percent. 
 Burger King, which is based in Miami and is a unit of Diageo P.L.C., the world's biggest liquor company, said on Monday that the Pokemon balls were hazardous to children under 3. It declined to give details on the child's death.
Investors are concerned about Equity Marketing's role in the recall and its relationship with Burger King, said Melissa Williams, an analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. "There's general concern about the recall and what its financial impact will be -- which is negligible," she said. "There's a lot of negative sentiment around the stock right now."
Equity Marketing, which is based in Los Angeles, is not obligated by contract to cover any costs of the recall, though it may agree to cover some to stay on Burger King's good side, Ms. Williams said.
An Equity Marketing spokeswoman said Burger King had not asked the company to cover recall costs and that it was still working on future promotions with Burger King.
Ms. Williams said most of Equity Marketing's revenue comes from its promotions business, which includes toys offered at Burger King, its largest client. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (93%); DGE (PAR) (72%); DGE (LSE) (72%); DEO (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (72%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: EQUITY MARKETING INC; BURGER KING CORP BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (93%); DIAGEO PLC (72%); EMAK WORLDWIDE INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITY MARKETING INC; BURGER KING CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; POKEMON (CARTOON CHARACTERS); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ASPHYXIATION AND SUFFOCATION FAST FOOD (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); 

PERSON: MELISSA WILLIAMS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



697 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
New Economic Data Causes Slight Drop in Treasury Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell modestly yesterday in thin and listless trading, as fresh economic data heightened investor concern about another rate increase.
By late in the day, the price of the 30-year benchmark bond was down 4/32 , to 9514/32 , while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, increased to 6.47 percent from 6.46 percent on Monday. 
 Reports on consumer confidence and home sales exceeded market forecasts, solidifying the already rising expectations that the Federal Reserve will increase rates as soon as February to slow economic growth.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said yesterday's data was strongly indicative of continued economic momentum in excess of what is generally considered to be the maximum noninflationary rate of growth. "Indeed, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose sharply and somewhat unexpectedly in December, to 141.4, approaching the record level of 142.3 registered in October 1968," Mr. Fine said. "Quite obviously, consumers remain highly optimistic, and are likely to continue to spend freely over the near term."
"Meanwhile," he added, "the 6 percent jump in November existing- home sales was a clear signal that the housing market, while perhaps past its peak, is still quite vibrant, and is not yet displaying any signs of an impending economic slowdown."
The session lows came after the National Association of Realtors said existing-home sales rebounded last month after four straight months of declines. Sales rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.09 million in November, above economists' forecasts for a 5 million rate.
The unemployment rate is currently at a very low 4.1 percent and gross domestic product growth was at a blistering 5.7 percent pace for the third quarter and is widely projected to show continued strength for the fourth quarter. Given all that, Mr. Fine said the members of the Fed's policy-setting committee "must be squirming in their seats as they nervously analyze this steady stream of buoyant economic data, which at the same time is further solidifying the already widespread expectation of bond market participants of further tightening by the Fed during the first quarter."
Although the stock and bond markets have largely uncoupled in recent weeks, the strength in the stock market has been pressing bond investors, with some buyers of Government securities electing instead to dabble in stocks.
The only economic indicator left for 1999 that could move the market is a report on regional manufacturing activity by the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago, scheduled for release on Friday.
The survey is closely watched for trends in nationwide manufacturing activity. But investors are already anticipating data due out in early January, including the December jobs report, the December survey of the National Association of Purchasing Management and inflation indicators.
Even though the bond market can be expected to get some support from investors attracted to the current high yields, Treasuries might not fall much further. Bonds have registered their worst annual performance since the Treasury began selling the 30-year issue regularly in 1977. They have handed investors losses of 12.6 percent this year, taking reinvested interest into account.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve"
Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.
 
Graph tracks selected Treasury securities for yesterday and one month ago.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



698 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Sales Paid by Check Increase by 7.2% Over 1998

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In a measure of particularly strong holiday shopping in New York City, retail sales for the season increased by 7.2 percent for purchases paid for by check compared with last year, an industry study showed.
At a news conference yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani cited data released Monday by Telecheck Services, a check-clearing company that analyzes sales across the nation, showing that the increase in retail sales by check in New York was greater than in any other American city. For the period from Nov. 27 through Dec. 26, widely regarded as the holiday shopping season, New York City's gain outpaced a 6.2 percent increase across the nation, the analysis showed. 
 The analysis by Telecheck, a Houston-based subsidiary of the First Data Corporation of Atlanta, is limited because it takes into account only purchases made by check. That accounts for about a third of retail sales, Telecheck said, and does not provide any measure of cash purchases, or of credit card purchases during the holiday season by people who have not yet paid their credit card bills.
Nevertheless, the study is widely used as a yardstick by the retail industry. Telecheck said it tracked sales at more than 27,000 stores.
The study said the strong economy had boosted holiday purchases in every major city compared with 1998. Retail sales by check increased by 6.6 percent in Chicago, 6.5 percent in Boston and 5.8 percent in Los Angeles, the study said.
"There were periods of time in which holiday shopping declined in the last 8 to 10 years, and the question then was, 'Do people still shop in New York like they used to?' " Mr. Giuliani said. "The answer is, it looks like the growth in holiday shopping was the greatest in New York."
In New York City, economists said, the results provided fresh, but not unexpected, evidence of a booming economy.
"It is certainly consistent with the strength we are seeing across the metropolitan economy," said Rae Rosen, a senior economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "For the first time in a long time we have started calling New York City robust."
Ms. Rosen attributed the surge in holiday sales to the tourists and other visitors in the city, and to strong gains in private sector employment.
William Ford, senior economic adviser to Telecheck, said yesterday that the sales gain for New York City was "unusually impressive" because it followed strong gains last year. During the same holiday shopping season in 1998, he said, the city's sales by check rose 3.6 percent, compared with a 2.5 percent gain for the nation.
Some of the reasons go beyond simple questions of personal finance, Mr. Ford said in a telephone interview from his office in Houston. He pointed to the city's mild December weather, its reduction in crime and increased tourism.
He also seized on data, which had not been included in Telecheck's study, that showed the average check written by New York City holiday shoppers this year was for $205.50, more than $34 higher than last year and more than double the national average.
"Everybody knows New Yorkers take home bigger paychecks," Mr. Ford said, "and it looks like the thing behind holiday purchases this year was those big bonuses on Wall Street." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDC (NYSE) (84%); BK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (73%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (73%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (70%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); TELECHECK SERVICES INC (73%); FIRST DATA CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CHRISTMAS; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS RETAIL SALES (94%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LUECK, THOMAS J RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



699 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plans New Vouchers For Working-Class Housing

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
President Clinton will propose 120,000 new housing vouchers for working-class families in the federal budget that he will send to Congress in February, administration officials said today. It would amount to the largest expansion of the housing program in a decade.
The vouchers allow low-income families to find their own housing, and to use government subsidies to help pay the costs. Congressional Republicans have been reluctant to finance the program at the levels requested by the president in recent years, resulting in a large backlog in applicants. After Mr. Clinton proposed money for 100,000 vouchers this year, Congress eventually approved 60,000. 
 Currently, 1.4 million families receive such housing vouchers. But a report prepared by the Department of Housing and Urban Development in March 1999 found that the number of families waiting for such assistance had increased to 600,000. The wait for vouchers has stretched to 10 years in Newark and Los Angeles, 7 years in Houston and 5 years in Chicago and Memphis, the report found.
Aides said the president's proposed expansion, which will cost $690 million, is designed to address a paradox of the current economic expansion. At the same time that the strong national economy is making many Americans rich, it is hurting millions of the nation's poorest people by making affordable housing more difficult to find.
"We have the greatest need for affordable housing in history," Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo said today in an interview. "The strong economy is driving up rents. This is the most aggressive housing budget of his administration. It is the largest request of the decade."
White House aides said Mr. Clinton would include in his budget a package of vouchers intended for individuals who are moving from welfare to work, homeless people, those with large families and working-class families designated by local housing authorities. All recipients would have to meet strict income requirements, about $27,900 per family nationally.
"We see this as an important part of the overall strategy of supporting working families," an aide to Mr. Clinton said.
The president will deliver the broad outlines of his budget on Jan. 27 at his final State of the Union address. On Feb. 7, he will send the document to the Congress.
Housing experts say the voucher program grew steadily from 1978 until 1995, when Republicans in Congress stopped further expansions because of concerns about the management of the money. Since then, there have been only two moderate increases.
Representative Rick A. Lazio, the Long Island Republican who heads the House housing subcommittee, said the main question was how Mr. Clinton intended to finance the new vouchers.
"I strongly support additional vouchers, provided that the president can find an acceptable way to pay for them," Mr. Lazio said.
The vouchers continue to be sought-after commodities that can take years to obtain. The average subsidy, aides said, is about $400 a month. The tenant adds $223 a month, to cover an average rent of $623.
"Many low-income families don't live near where their jobs are and this program allows them to move closer," a White House official said. "Housing is expensive and it's hard to find. This program allows them to fill in the gap."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VOUCHERS; SHORTAGES HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); CITIES (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LACEY, MARC; CUOMO, ANDREW M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



700 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Away From Bid To Cut Off Aid to Russia

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
The United States will not seek to block economic aid to Russia as punishment for that country's widely condemned campaign against separatist rebels in Chechnya, a Clinton administration official said today.
The official, speaking after Russia won the release today of a $100 million loan from the World Bank, said aid packages to Russia from the United States, the World Bank or its sister agency, the International Monetary Fund, would be considered on a case-by-case basis. But he said the Clinton administration would not apply a umbrella political standard when reviewing aid programs and has no plans to cut off aid in general as a way of punishing Russia for its military campaign in Chechnya. 
 "We support this disbursement of funds, which will be used to restructure the coal sector," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "It is fully consistent with the common objective of promoting market reforms in Russia."
The World Bank loan released today to help Russia restructure its coal industry did not require formal United States approval. But Washington often uses its influence at the bank and the International Monetary Fund to block loans that it considers contrary to its national interest.
Last week, the administration sent a different signal when Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright ordered the Export-Import Bank to reject a $500 million loan for Russia. Dr. Albright cited concerns about the Russian state-affiliated oil company that would have received the money and State Department officials said the decision had nothing to do with Chechnya. But other administration officials suggested at the time that the Chechnya conflict had heightened the political sensitivity of economic cooperation with Russia.
The approval of aid from the World Bank immediately raised Russian hopes that the United States would not block a much larger aid package from the monetary fund. The fund must decide whether to release $640 million to Russia that it delayed in September, citing Russia's failure to meet certain conditions of the loan. A decision on whether Russia has met those conditions could come as soon as next month.
"It is good news, a good event," Alexander Livshits, a senior Russia economic envoy, said today on Moscow television. "The World Bank has grasped positively what is happening in the Russian economy. I think this is not the last good news."
Clinton administration officials said they did not intend to signal that their support for World Bank loans would necessarily carry over to aid from the monetary fund, which is intended to help Russia pay back earlier loans it has received from international agencies. But they said that the United States was not applying a political litmus test to economic aid and that the administration would continue to pursue its broad economic objectives in Russia despite the Chechnya campaign.
What the war in Chechnya has done, one administration official said, was to make the United States reluctant to approve any new loan disbursements if Russia had not strictly adhered to the terms of using previous aid. In other words, Russia is not going to get much latitude in the way it uses aid, but could still see a steady flow of foreign loans as long as it uses them properly.
Russia had fully met the conditions of previous World Bank loans to its coal industry, and therefore the bank and the United States had no grounds to hold up aid, officials at the bank and the Clinton administration said.
The World Bank loan will mean little to the Russian economy or the country's ability to wage war against Chechen separatists. The money is earmarked exclusively to "cushion the impact" of mass layoffs in the coal industry. Russia has agreed to close 116 inefficient mines as a condition of receiving the aid.
But the loan is still an important symbol for the Russian government, which has been working to show that its economic relations with the outside world are still on track despite international condemnation of its military actions in Chechnya.
Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, whose centrist political party did well in Russia's recent parliamentary elections, has promised to jumpstart economic reforms advocated by the West even as he leads the uncompromising military effort. His party includes a number of politicians who say they would like to speed up efforts to remake Russia's economy in the Western mold, changes that came to a standstill when Russia devalued its currency and defaulted on some of its debt in August 1998.
The Clinton administration has also been eager to show that economic engagement with Russia, a broad policy of helping Russia manage its economy and its finances, has paid dividends despite an increasingly strained relationship with Moscow over geopolitical issues. Officials said halting aid to Russia now makes no sense, given that politicians with favor economic changes are ascendant and that Russian markets have begun to recover from their sharp reversal last year.
Human rights groups also criticized the World Bank's decision to release the loans. "We are seriously disappointed by the bank's decision," Holly Cartner, executive director of Human Rights Watch's Europe and Central Asia Division, said in a statement. "The bank's stated commitment to addressing the 'human aspects' of development rings hollow when its funds are paid directly to a government pursuing the kind of abusive campaign we are witnessing in Chechnya."
The World Bank staff considered the Chechnya conflict when reviewing whether to release the aid, according to a bank spokeswoman, Gina Ciagne. But that review focused soley on the financial impact -- whether the war effort would so deplete Russia's financial resources and scare away investors that the country would have a hard time paying back the loans, she said.
The war could have that effect in the long run, Ms. Ciagne said. But it did not threaten to do so now. She said the bank was legally obligated to disburse money agreed to in the 1997 coal-sector reform package, provided that Russia met the loan's conditions.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); APPROVALS (76%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (68%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



701 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Asian Markets Ending 1999 On Steep Internet Ascent

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 28

 BODY:
Stock markets across Asia are riding out the millennium on a cloud of euphoria generated by -- what else? -- the Internet.
Shares in Tokyo, Seoul, Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur rose again today, providing fresh evidence, if any were needed, that the information revolution has replaced the Asian economic crisis as the preoccupation of investors in this part of the world. 
"Asia has lagged the West in information technology," said Dong Tao, a regional economist with Credit Suisse First Boston in Hong Kong. "But with Asia recovering from the crisis, companies are now willing to invest in this area. People see the possibility of a real breakthrough."
In South Korea, the market rose 2.2 percent to a five-year high, while stocks in Taiwan were up four-tenths of 1 percent, in the last trading sessions of 1999 for those markets. The gains capped a rally that began early in the year, as fears about Asian finances receded. After a setback during the summer, the rally reignited in October as companies began pursuing a flurry of Internet-related ventures in the region.
This jolt of excitement helped the benchmark South Korean index gain 82.78 percent for the year -- and more yet in dollar terms, 92.58 percent -- the best performance of any Asian market outside Japan. Taiwan's exchange, despite the devastating earthquake there in September, rose 31.63 percent from its final trading session of 1998.
Nowhere has the giddiness over technology been more pronounced than in Hong Kong. The benchmark Hang Seng index has moved from strength to strength over the last week, up more than half a percent today, to 16,928.29. It has risen 68 percent so far this year, and is higher now than it was at the peak of the territory's real estate boom in the mid-90's.
Analysts said today's gain was led by a company that did not exist a year ago: Pacific Century Cyberworks, which invests in Internet start-ups and is creating its own satellite-delivered Internet service. Its shares jumped 22 percent today, after soaring 44 percent last Thursday and Friday. The surge began in the United States last Wednesday, when the company's shares doubled in over-the-counter trading.
Pacific Century Cyberworks -- which was founded by Richard Li, the son of the Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing -- loses money and will for several more years. Still, the company is being hailed as the vehicle that could turn Hong Kong into a technology mecca. And the younger Mr. Li spent last week denying rumors that he was about to swap shares with Microsoft or seek a listing on the Nasdaq market.
"Pacific Century does not even have a core business yet," Mr. Tao of Credit Suisse First Boston said. "But it has demonstrated its ability to raise funds, and that's what's important in this business."
With a market capitalization exceeding $30 billion, Pacific Century is worth almost as much as the elder Mr. Li's flagship company, Cheung Kong Holdings. Mr. Tao suggested that Richard Li had created as much wealth, on paper, in five months as his father did in 50 years.
Hong Kong's Internet bubble has expanded to encompass Internet-related companies like Cable and Wireless HKT, Hong Kong's local phone provider, and China Telecom (Hong Kong), the publicly listed arm of the entrenched mainland Chinese phone company.
China Telecom, which owns the gateways that Chinese use to gain access to the World Wide Web, is regarded by investors as a way to capitalize on the rapid growth of the Internet there. Cable and Wireless HKT recently signed a deal with Star TV, an Asian satellite television company controlled by the News Corporation, to provide high-speed Internet access and television programs throughout the region.
Despite the resurgence of Asian stocks, many analysts do not think that Hong Kong and other Asian markets are as steeply priced as those in the United States. Brokerage firms here predict that the Hang Seng index will finish next year significantly above its current levels, even with 1999's ascent.
"The Hong Kong market could easily pull back a bit from here," acknowledged Richard Margolis, a regional strategist at Merrill Lynch here. "But it's not as heavily underpinned as the U.S. markets by companies whose only valuation is a multiple of their losses."
One reason for the optimism is that Asia's underlying economies have recovered faster than almost anyone predicted. Mr. Tao, for example, recently increased his forecast for Hong Kong's economic growth in 2000 to 5.1 percent, from 3.2 percent. He says the territory is enjoying a sharp, "V-shaped" rebound.
With exports from South Korea booming and foreign investors pouring money into stocks there, the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade estimated that the country's gross domestic product will increase this year at an outsized rate of 9.5 percent, and a very respectable 6.5 percent in 2000.
Still, analysts are wary of projecting a future of unbroken gains. The enthusiasm for Internet shares is an export of the United States, and it has made Asian markets more dependent than ever on stock performance in New York, especially on the Nasdaq in recent months. If either the Nasdaq or the Dow Jones industrial average were to fall significantly from their current levels, analysts said it could halt the rebound in the region.
Simon L. Ogus, former head of Asian economics at Warburg Dillon Read, said: "There has always been a lot of correlation between the U.S. and Asian markets, because many of them are small, trading economies. But there is more correlation than ever now. We've got one huge correlative bet going on here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Exuberance merged with congestion yesterday at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, as shares sold at levels above those during the real estate bubble of the mid-90's. A trader rolled up a printout of his day's figures. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Graph: "A Resurgence in Asia"
The Taiwan and South Korean Stock Markets had strong revivals this year as investors put their concerns about the region behind them.
 
Graph plots the Index of the Taiwan Stock Exchange. since January
 
Graph plots the Korean Stock Price Index since January.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 0008 (HKSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (94%); MALAYSIA (90%); JAPAN (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); PCCW LTD (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; HONG KONG; MALAYSIA; HONG KONG (96%); ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (94%); MALAYSIA (90%); JAPAN (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); TRENDS (73%); STARTUPS (71%); BONDS (71%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); SATELLITE BROADBAND SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK LI KA-SHING (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



702 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Coup Leader Tells Diplomats He Will Honor Ivory Coast's Debts

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Dec. 28

 BODY:
Portraying himself as a responsible leader, the former army chief who seized power here last week met today with foreign diplomats and vowed to honor Ivory Coast's huge foreign debts.
Since the largely nonviolent coup, Gen. Robert Guei has been meeting with people from various sectors of society to outline his vision for the future. 
 General Guei met with political party leaders on Monday and invited them to submit candidates for a transitional cabinet that he said could be announced next week.
General Guei, who earlier had promised an "orderly" return to democracy, said today that he would improve on the record of the ousted president, Henri Konan Bedie, whose government was accused of rampant corruption that led the International Monetary Fund and European Union to cut aid this year.
General Guei has not said, however, whether presidential elections scheduled for October would go ahead.
An American Embassy official, speaking on condition of anonymity, cautiously praised General Guei for "making the right noises."
But the official said the United States would continue to push for a return to constitutional rule and democracy.
General Guei told diplomats that the coup had not been planned. He said he had merely responded to a spontaneous army uprising for better conditions and improved governance.
"I had to make a choice to guarantee peace," General Guei said, and assure "security to all Ivoirian men and women." He also accused Mr. Bedie of deliberately fomenting political and ethnic divisions, including hiring private security companies to terrorize civilians. His claims could not immediately be verified.
The Canadian ambassador, Don McMaster, however, condemned the overthrow. Canada has suspended all direct aid to Ivory Coast.
Ambassador McMaster said: "Guei's response was: 'This wasn't a coup d'etat.' But whatever term you want to use, this is something we have to condemn."
The military uprising began last Thursday with troops racing through the commercial capital, Abidjan, in seized luxury cars and shooting in the air.
On Friday, General Guei declared that the military was in control and suspended the Constitution, courts and Parliament. He then appointed nine officers to a National Committee of Public Salvation that will oversee the country, with himself as president of the committee.
Many Ivoirians welcomed the coup, saying they hoped that the army would improve Ivory Coast's declining economic and political conditions.
Ivory Coast, a nation of 19 million people, had long been considered a model of stability in volatile West Africa. The military takeover was the country's first since it became independent from France in 1960.
Political and social tensions have increased in recent months. President Bedie was widely criticized for banning outdoor political demonstrations and jailing opposition politicians.
On Sunday, Mr. Bedie fled with family members to Lome, the capital of nearby Togo.
The ousted president made a brief trip on Monday to Abuja, Nigeria, where he promised not to oppose the coup with violence and said he planned to spend his "forced asylum" trying to rally support for his government.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); NIGERIA (92%); TOGO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IVORY COAST; COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); NIGERIA (92%); TOGO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT COUPS (93%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); TRENDS (67%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (65%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); 

PERSON: GUEI, ROBERT (GEN) ROBERT GUEI (94%); HENRI KONAN BEDIE (79%); DON MCMASTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



703 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Record for Dow Jones; Nasdaq Falls Shy of 4,000
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed to a record. Led by Alcoa, United Technologies and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, the Dow closed at 11,476.71, up 85.63 points, or 0.8 percent. 
 Highflying technology shares suffered a late-day sell-off, and the Nasdaq composite index -- which traded above the 4,000 level for most of the session -- gave up a 47-point gain and closed lower. The Nasdaq fell 3.27 points, to 3,972.11. Meanwhile, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index barely budged, edging up 0.56 point, to 1,457.66. Page C9.
 
Internet Propels Stocks in Asia
Stock prices in Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Malaysia rose again, riding a wave of euphoria over the Internet, providing fresh evidence that the information revolution has replaced the Asian economic crisis as the preoccupation of investors in the region. C3.
 
The Belle of the New Year's Ball
Tama Starr, the third generation of her family to run Artkraft Strauss, the company known for its giant animated signs in Times Square and the New Year's Eve ball that it has tended and lowered for 88 years, never expected to run the company. Her background was in liberal arts. After a year of graduate study in comparative religion, she moved to Hawaii, built a house, was a writer and was in a performing arts group. But she returned to the company, where she has spent 18 New Year's Eves atop the tower where the ball drops. Management. C6.
 
Goldman Sachs Buying Clarin Stake
Goldman Sachs agreed to acquire a stake in Argentina's Grupo Clarin, the publisher of the largest-circulation newspaper in the Spanish-speaking world, for $500 million. C3.
 
New Jersey Company Recalls Foods
D'Artagnan, a New Jersey company, is voluntarily recalling 26 of its products, including foie gras pates, mousses and terrines, and has closed the Huntington, N.Y., plant that produced them because of possible contamination with a sometimes deadly bacteria. A20.
 
Commodity Rally Not a Warning Sign
As the prices of commodities like heating oil, crude oil, copper and nickel make a run at the end of the year, some analysts say that the rally is built on a bet that the global economy, led by Asia and Europe, will continue to rebound in 2000. But the rise in industrial commodities is not, as it has been in the past, an early warning signal for inflation. Market Place. C8.
 
Consumer Confidence Stays Strong
Consumer confidence rose in December to the highest level in three decades. The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence rose to 141.4 this month, the second-highest reading in the 32 years. In a separate report, the National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes surged 6 percent in November, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.09 million units. C8.
 
$100 Million Released to Russia
Russia won the release of a $100 million loan from the World Bank, and the United States said it would not seek to block economic aid to Russia as punishment for its campaign against separatist rebels in Chechnya. A8.
 
Millennium Celebrations Fizzle
Fears of terrorism have caused organizers to cancel some New Year's Eve events and prompted some travelers to cancel airline and hotel reservations, but the biggest dampener has proved to be the high price tags for parties and entertainment packages. But that is not stopping preparations for 2001, the real start of the next millennium in many eyes. Edwin McDowell: Business Travel. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,476.71 (up) 85.63
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.47% (up) 0.01
The euro -- $1.006 (down) 0.001
The dollar -- 102.42 yen (up) 0.07
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Leading indicators from May to Oct.
 
Graph plots Existing-Home Sales from June to Nov.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); MMM (SWX) (58%); MMM (NYSE) (58%); MMM (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); 3M CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEATING OIL (74%); HEATING OIL PRICES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); WRITERS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (65%); FOOD RECALLS (62%); BACTERIA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



704 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: IDEAS INTO ACTION/FRED ANDREWS;
A Man of Words Is Still Partial to One: Loyalty

BYLINE: This column about management issues appears every other week. Fred Andrews's e-mail address is frandrew@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
IN the 90's, a tough, impatient decade that has given loyalty a drubbing, Frederick F. Reichheld has always been loyalty's champion in business. Mr. Reichheld produced the hard numbers showing that a seasoned employee, treated properly, was two or three times as productive as someone just in the door.
No one ever questioned that customer loyalty was a good thing. But precious few companies actually understood how powerful a lever a committed customer was. Mr. Reichheld, a management consultant at Bain & Company in Boston, had the tally: A company that keeps just 5 percent more of its customers from sliding away could lift profits by 50 percent. 
 Times have changed, but he still preaches that loyalty, an old-fashioned virtue, is fundamental to business success on the Internet. This season Amazon.com, for one, with its obsession with serving customers, is singing Fred Reichheld's song.
Everyone understands that e-commerce economics requires enormous expenditures upfront to attract a clientele. This holiday season was a critical test of which e-tailers could win out in pulling customers to their sites.
But that's only a start. Those customers have to stick around. The Internet measures a site's "stickiness" in minutes; profitability is reckoned in years. According to preliminary research by Bain and others, it will take three to four years of loyal patronage just to break even on what is now being spent to drag customers in the door.
"The economics of loyalty just gets applied so much more powerfully," Mr. Reichheld said in an interview on Dec. 17. "If you think about the true economics of an Internet business: they've got this big acquisition cost, and then they've got a potential annuity of income if they treat people right and earn their loyalty."
Mr. Reichheld believes the Internet has enormous potential for serving customers better, with richer information, interactive relationships and innovative services. "There are so many creative things you can do for the customer's lifetime experience," he said, "lots of ways to create a unique, distinctive and much better customer experience."
From what he has seen so far, however, "very few" companies are going to be able to hold their customers for three to four years. Acquisition costs for the pure Internet e-tailers are "going up like crazy," he said, while the customers they attract tend to surf from one retail site to another. "They're snagging fundamentally disloyal butterfly kinds of customers," he said.
The preliminary research on consumers' Internet shopping habits and projected loyalties shows some traditional merchants like Lands' End and L. L. Bean doing very well. Their customers are Velcro, not Vaseline.
"I'm pretty convinced that the existing firms, as they add Internet capabilities, are going to cream pure-play Internet," Mr. Reichheld said. Some traditional merchants enjoy customer retention rates 10 to 20 percentage points higher than their newer competition. Normally, trailing the competition by 20 points in customer loyalty "is enough to put you out of business," he noted, adding that "10 points is very weak returns."
Mr. Reichheld's core doctrine is engraved in stone: Companies that cultivate loyal customers, loyal employees, loyal investors, consistently outperform their competition. Mr. Reichheld first built a Bain practice and then a philosophy on that observation.
"One, it all starts with trust," he said. "If you don't earn your customer's trust, you won't make money on the Internet. Two, unless you have superior economics -- a strategy for building real economic advantage -- you're not worthy of trust. Three, customer selection is more vital than ever. There is so much churn out there."
Mr. Reichheld is an idealist and a perfectionist. On average, he notes, American companies lose roughly half their customers in five years, half their employees in four. The huge expense of replacing them offends his perfectionist streak. And the emerging career pattern of workers jumping from employer to employer strikes him as a sad failure. It is "sheer hogwash" to preach that message to young people, he said.
"A great company is where you want to end up and spend most of your life," he said. "Most of life is a search for people and institutions worthy of your loyalty and commitment. People yearn for that. That's why the Marines are not short on recruiting."
At 47 and financially secure, Mr. Reichheld has retired from client engagements. His Bain partners made him the first Bain Fellow, a half-time senior position that permits him to concentrate on extending his loyalty research. He gave a score of speeches this year, and he is three-quarters through writing a book on corporate leadership.
"This idea of treating people right, principled relationships -- it doesn't just happen naturally," he said. "It takes leaders who have the ability to put others' interests ahead, to take a long time frame, and to bring things into that framework."
Every year or so, most recently in October, Mr. Reichheld assembles a a circle of chief executives from companies he admires. The collection is as varied as Intuit, Vanguard, Harley Davidson, Chick-fil-A, Northwestern Mutual Life, State Farm, A. G. Edwards, Enterprise Rent-a-Car, ServiceMaster and Bright Horizons Family Solutions. That circle provides sketches from life for his book on leadership -- far-sighted executives like Scott Cook of Intuit, Benjamin F. Edwards III of A. G. Edwards and S. Truett Cathy of Chick-fil-A.
"These businesses structure themselves in a way that would make it logical that you would commit to them," Mr. Reichheld said. "The way people are treated, the principles they run on, the real results, are worth that commitment." Among other things, "they align people's interests, so that if the team wins, they drag along everyone who contributed."
His favorite instance is Chick-fil-A, the fast-food chicken chain, which is based in Atlanta. Its store operators put up only $5,000 and pay the parent company 15 percent of sales for various services. Above that, parent and operator split all the profits 50-50. Incomes of $100,000 or more are common; a handful of operators earn $300,000 or more, typically from two outlets. By contrast, the competition might pay $40,000 or $50,000.
"Chick-fil-A -- they celebrate when their people do well," Mr. Reichheld declared. In his view, Mr. Cathy, who founded Chick-fil-A, got it exactly right: "There is no way in heaven he can get rich unless his store operators get rich." And Mr. Cathy is quite rich.
Four years ago, Mr. Reichheld's first book, "The Loyalty Effect" (Harvard Business School Press), debunked the notion that loyalty was dead. It also put loyalty economics on the map. It showed, for instance, that when a brokerage house improved its retention of brokers to 90 percent from 80 percent, it more than doubled the potential value of a new hire.
For one credit card company, a 5 percent increase in customer retention translated into a 75 percent increase in the average customer's lifetime value to the company. Typically, a customer generated $40 in profit the first year, $106 in the 10th and $161 in the 20th. Customers who stick around tend to buy more, are much cheaper to serve, bring in friends as referrals, and accept premium pricing. Over the years, that all compounds.
"In the old world," Mr. Reichheld said, "you can have medium loyalty and still make a buck," protected by a convenient location or the customer's lack of information. In the Internet world, there will be no place to hide, no substitute for earning high loyalty. "The economics are going to be obvious," he predicted. "People are going to be forced to do the right thing or get out of business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: No matter what else changes, Frederick F. Reichheld says, "If you don't earn your customer's trust, you won't make money on the Internet." (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BAIN & CO BAIN & CO (71%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAIN & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (61%); 

PERSON: REICHHELD, FREDERICK F; ANDREWS, FRED FREDERICK F REICHHELD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



705 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Another Destructive Coup

 BODY:
The news out of Ivory Coast this week may seem all too familiar for a West African nation: an armed forces mutiny, widespread looting, the armed seizure of radio and television stations, and finally the announcement of a coup by soldiers who say they are promoting national "salvation." On Sunday the ousted president, Henri Konan Bedie, was airlifted to neighboring Togo and may seek asylum in France.
But this not just another African coup. Ivory Coast has long been regarded as one of the most stable and prosperous countries in Africa. It is the world's largest producer of cocoa, with good roads and a modern capital, Abidjan, boasting glass-and-steel office towers and a cosmopolitan middle class. It has been a friend to the United States. 
 Yet the coup has exposed the illusory nature of stability in countries where even the best-intentioned leaders have relied on coercion and patronage to secure their power and where democracy and accountability are extremely fragile. After independence from France in 1960, Ivory Coast was dominated for more than three decades by Felix Houphouet-Boigny, who presided over rapid economic growth and skillfully balanced the interests of regional groups, but failed to lay a firm institutional foundation that could withstand the ambitions of a less nimble successor.
Mr. Bedie, who took office when Mr. Houphouet-Boigny died in 1993, oversaw a steadily more corrupt and repressive regime. His fate may have been sealed in 1995 when he won a full five-year term in balloting sullied by government rules that eliminated the president's strongest rivals. His security forces bullied opponents and the press, creating a groundswell of ill will. The country is now being run by a nine-man junta. Its leader is Gen. Robert Guei, a former chief of staff of the armed forces who has said he will create a government that will include civilians -- but has not said when.
France is the real power to reckon with in Ivory Coast. The French too often acquiesced in Mr. Bedie's transgressions for their own strategic and commercial reasons. Nevertheless, both France and the United States have rightly condemned this armed seizure of power, as did Nigeria and South Africa, the two most powerful countries in sub-Saharan Africa. They should insist that the soldiers promptly set a date certain when they will hand the country over to genuine democratic rule. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOGO (92%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IVORY COAST; FRANCE; NIGERIA; SOUTH AFRICA; COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOGO (92%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IVORY COAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PATRONAGE COUPS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); ETHICS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (52%); 

PERSON: BEDIE, HENRI KONAN (PRES) FELIX HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



706 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Turf War Over Transplants Mirrors Feuds Across the Nation

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Dec. 23

 BODY:
Like a baseball team that recruits a winning pitcher, administrators at Iowa Methodist Medical Center gave themselves a hearty pat on the back when Dr. Maureen Martin signed on to their staff. A nationally recognized liver transplant surgeon, Dr. Martin, 49, possesses the self-confident charm and star power that hospital marketing people love.
She had worked with Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, who founded the field and turned the University of Pittsburgh into a magnet for liver transplants, and went on to build her own program at the University of Iowa, 120 miles from here in Iowa City. Two years ago, when the university rejected her plans for satellite centers around the state, Iowa Methodist was only too happy to start its own liver transplant center, with Dr. Martin as chief. 
 What Iowa Methodist did not anticipate was the nasty turf war that would ensue. The chief liver surgeon at the University of Nebraska, which draws patients from neighboring Iowa, has questioned whether the region needs another transplant program and has accused Dr. Martin of "self-serving baloney." When Iowa Methodist sought, and received, state approval for its plans, the opposition from the University of Iowa was so fierce that Dr. Martin no longer speaks to her former partner there.
Such is life in the liver wars. At a time when human organs, particularly livers, are in short supply, the skirmish in Iowa provides a window into a national feud over the Clinton administration's plan to require that donated hearts, lungs, livers, kidneys and pancreases go to the sickest patients first, rather than those who live closest to the organ donors. The debate polarized Congress at the end of its last session and is expected to resume when the lawmakers return in January.
But the debate is not just about saving lives, according to people on both sides as well as experts outside the transplant field. The fight, they say, is about which transplant centers -- not which patients -- will get the scarce organs, and the profits and prestige that go with them. It is being driven by surgeons, they say, whose careers and egos depend on the success and size of the transplant programs they run.
"This is a power struggle," said Dr. Martin, who will leave Iowa in January for Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston, to replace a surgeon who took his entire liver transplant team -- 28 people -- and 2,000 patients to a competing hospital, the Lahey Clinic. "It's a tug of war, and the patients are the rope."
The administration's proposed rule would give Dr. Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of Health and Human Services, broad authority over organ allocation policy. Dr. Shalala has ordered the United Network for Organ Sharing, the nonprofit agency that runs the distribution network, to devise a new system that meets her sickest-first criteria and would allow for broad sharing of organs across state lines. Although the details have not been worked out, the mere idea of change has split liver centers into roughly two camps.
Because nearly every liver surgeon in the nation has either trained under Dr. Starzl or trained under someone who has, the dispute is at its core a family feud, although the patriarch from Pittsburgh, now semiretired, has maintained a conspicuous silence throughout.
On one side are seven very large programs, led by Pittsburgh's, which tend to treat very sick patients and would presumably benefit from rules that put the sickest first. These centers support Dr. Shalala. On the other is the Patients Access to Transplantation Coalition, a collection of several dozen mostly midsize hospitals like the University of Iowa that have thrived under the current system, in which geography, as opposed to medical urgency, dictates the flow of organs. These centers want to maintain the status quo, and say that Dr. Shalala has no right to intervene in medical decisions.
Both sides are busy lobbying Congress, where members are lining up not by party affiliation but by how they believe the plan may affect doctors in their states.
"It's the politics of local interest, which are partially economic but also a question of prestige and status and competitiveness among surgeons and institutions," said Bruce Vladek, a health policy analyst at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, which is in the Pittsburgh camp. "There is something to me that is tawdry about very highly compensated, high-prestige professionals engaged in such a naked turf fight with the interests of patients so far down in the pecking order of what gets worried about or paid attention to."
Mr. Vladek is not the only one who is disgusted. Dr. Lawrence G. Hunsicker, the kidney specialist at the University of Iowa to whom Dr. Martin no longer speaks, accuses his fellow transplant professionals of "squabbling like spoiled children."
Dr. Byers W. Shaw Jr., the Nebraska surgeon who raised questions about Iowa Methodist's program, says friendships with doctors he once respected have gone sour.
"This is about our failure as a profession to solve our own problems," Dr. Shaw said. "The arrogance that I have heard from some of my colleagues is unimaginable."
Yet as the debate drags on, and the organ shortage grows more acute, more and more hospitals are trying to jump into the transplant business, creating regional feuds similar to the one that erupted in Iowa. With the transplant field maturing, the academic medical centers that dominated the landscape are now facing competition from community-based hospitals like Iowa Methodist. Often, there is little they can do.
When a hospital in Norfolk, Va., sought permission to start a liver program this year, the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond objected. When heart and pancreas transplant centers opened in Portland, Ore., the Oregon Health Sciences University raised a fuss. In New York, Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx and Westchester County Medical Center received state permission in November to begin doing heart transplants, provoking private grumbling, Mr. Vladek said, from others in the field.
Nationwide, the number of liver transplant programs has leaped to 125 in 1998 from 70 in 1988, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing.
"Most people would say there are certainly more programs than are warranted," said Roger W. Evans, a health policy analyst who has advised the government on transplant matters.
Yet building a transplant program, which requires not only highly trained surgeons but also a highly trained staff to support them, is not easy, as Dr. Martin has found.
Despite its state approval, Iowa Methodist has not begun offering liver transplants because it has not met the organ-sharing network's requirement that a hepatologist, a nonsurgical liver specialist, be on staff. A hepatologist has been recruited and will join the hospital in June, officials there say. And with Dr. Martin's departure for what she described as a job offer too good to resist, they will also have to find a liver surgeon.
Fast-talking and blunt, with blue-rimmed oval glasses and a dime-sized diamond on her ring finger, Dr. Martin is one of the very few women in her field. She chose the liver as her specialty, she says, because "it requires guts to operate on." The remark is telling, reflecting the legacy of Dr. Starzl, who is widely considered brilliant, irascible and bold.
Dr. Starzl declined to be interviewed. "He feels it's beneath him" to get involved in the dispute, explained Dr. John Fung, who now runs the Pittsburgh transplant program, adding that the dispute had "genuinely hurt" Dr. Starzl. "It's like a parent giving birth to Abel and Cain."
Dr. Martin, who describes Dr. Starzl as a "Rasputin" yet keeps his picture and a signed copy of his book in her office, went to work for him in 1989, when Pittsburgh dominated the field. Of 2,201 liver transplants in the United States that year, Pittsburgh surgeons performed 441. By the time Dr. Martin left for the University of Iowa three years later, new liver transplant centers, many run by Pittsburgh-trained surgeons, were popping up, changing the economics of the business.
Pittsburgh performed just 160 liver transplants last year, according to the organ-sharing network. The price of a transplant has been estimated at $244,600, said Mr. Evans, the health policy analyst, although health-plan reimbursements may be much lower. So for a big center like Pittsburgh, the drop-off in business is a significant loss.
For small to medium-sized hospitals like Iowa Methodist, the financial picture is different. The hospital does not plan to get rich doing transplants; an economic analysis found it would actually lose $1 million a year for the first three years, although those losses would be significantly offset by other liver disease patients the center would bring in. By the third year, the analysis found, the entire liver program would turn a profit of $94,433.
But money was not the only consideration. Transplant centers project a cutting-edge image and are important for attracting doctors and patients. And half of Iowans needing liver transplants go out of state.
As for Dr. Martin, she says her motivation is simple: treating patients close to home.
"If you can supply a service to a community that is cost-effective, with the same results, why send these people miles away?" she said.
But across the state in Iowa City, Dr. Hunsicker of the University of Iowa questions whether results would really be the same. Medical research shows patients fare best in centers that perform at least 20 transplants a year, he said, adding that the number of transplants in Iowa is now limited by the number of usable donated organs, about 40 a year.
"So if we had two programs," Dr. Hunsicker said, "and we split evenly, then we would both be at the very lowest end of the numbers necessary to maintain competence."
So doctors and researchers are looking for a way out of the organ crunch. Several hospitals, including the University of Iowa's, are experimenting with "living donor" transplants, which involve using part of a healthy adult's liver. (The liver has a remarkable capacity to regenerate.) And several companies are trying to develop pig livers for transplant use. Dr. Martin says Iowa Methodist is positioning itself to take advantage of these procedures.
That the hospital is laying its plans against the backdrop of the Clinton administration's proposed changes does not seem to faze her, perhaps because the national dispute shows no signs of a quick resolution. On Dec. 17, President Clinton signed a bill that in theory could put the new rule into effect by mid-March. But that is unlikely, because Congress plans to reopen the issue as part of a bill reauthorizing the National Organ Transplant Act, the 1984 law establishing the organ donor network. The House is considering legislation to revoke Dr. Shalala's authority.
Now Dr. Martin is readying herself for her next battleground: Boston. She is eager to get back in the operating room, she said, and in typical take-no-prisoners fashion, she laid out plans to wrest back some business from Dr. Roger Jenkins, the surgeon who left Beth Israel Deaconness for the Lahey Clinic. Already, Dr. Martin said, she has entered into a partnership with a hepatologist who refers some business to Dr. Jenkins.
"It is going to be," she predicted, "an interesting year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Maureen Martin, a liver surgeon, has met with fierce opposition as chief of a new transplant center. (Doug Wells for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IOWA METHODIST MEDICAL CENTER (DES MOINES) LAHEY CLINIC (51%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IOWA METHODIST MEDICAL CENTER (DES MOINES) UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (97%); IOWA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIVER; TRANSPLANTS; FINANCES TRANSPLANT SURGERY (95%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BASEBALL (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); ORGAN DONATION (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; MARTIN, MAUREEN (DR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



707 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Weighs Tax Increase On Gasoline Despite Big Surplus

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Dec. 28

 BODY:
New Jersey's treasury has been fattened by so much unexpected money this year that it may surprise many taxpayers that state officials are considering an increase in the gasoline tax.
Like other states basking in the nation's continuing economic boom, New Jersey reported a record budget surplus this fiscal year -- $782 million -- as steady increases in business profits and personal income swelled incoming revenues. The national settlement with tobacco companies will bestow an additional $7 billion windfall on the state, to be paid over 25 years. 
 Yet when New Jersey officials are not boasting about the robust economy, many -- including Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and Jack Collins, the speaker of the Assembly -- acknowledge that the state is considering an increase in its 10.5-cent-per-gallon tax on gasoline early next year to pay for several costly plans.
A plan to rebuild many of the state's aging public schools is expected to cost up to $10 billion. Governor Whitman has pledged to use most of the tobacco settlement money for health care and has proposed a $100 million plan to help provide insurance to 125,000 low- and moderate-income families. A property tax rebate program enacted last year will return $200 million more to taxpayers.
In addition, state officials must devise a way to replenish New Jersey's Transportation Trust Fund, which was established 15 years ago to finance construction of roads and bridges. After relying heavily on borrowing during the administrations of Governor Whitman and her predecessor, Jim Florio, the fund is now essentially broke.
Last November, voters approved a $450 million bond issue to tide the fund over until June. But with New Jersey roadways among the country's busiest, state leaders are under growing pressure to find a long-term money source for the program in the next several months.
Among major state officials, only the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, has contended that New Jersey can pay for its transportation fund, school construction and tax rebate programs while ruling out a gas tax increase. Mr. DiFrancesco recently proposed a four-year, $4 billion transportation plan that would restore the fund without touching the gasoline tax.
But some New Jersey officials and Wall Street analysts say that Mr. DiFrancesco's proposal calls for the state to shift money out of the general operating fund, and would require politically unpalatable steps like layoffs, cuts in services or a surge in borrowing.
Mr. Collins, the Assembly speaker, said recently that he saw few fiscally responsible alternatives to a gasoline tax increase. And Governor Whitman, whose attempt to increase the gasoline tax in 1998 was rejected by the Legislature, said she might support an increase this time if the legislators proposed it.
"We all try to look for other ways, other than raising taxes," Governor Whitman said early this month. "It certainly wasn't my favorite thing to do. But certainly a gasoline tax has been how we've funded the Transportation Trust Fund before."
New Jersey's current gasoline tax is one of the lowest in the nation, even with the additional state fees that raise its level to 14 cents per gallon, according to the American Petroleum Institute. New York charges 30.4 cents, and Connecticut levies 35.1 cents. The federal government also adds an 18.4-cent tax to each gallon of gasoline.
Still, it is not surprising that elected officials are moving cautiously, given New Jersey voters' angry reactions to recent tax increases. In 1990, Governor Florio, a Democrat, pushed through a $2.8 billion income tax increase to help the state comply with a court ruling on school financing. The plan so angered voters that Democrats lost control of both houses of the Legislature and Mr. Florio was denied a second term in 1993.
Mrs. Whitman, a Republican, defeated Mr. Florio by promising to cut income taxes by 30 percent, and boasts that she followed through on that plan. But despite the Governor's frequent reminders that she has reduced taxes 34 times, New Jersey property taxes are among the nation's highest and many public opinion polls list taxes as a top concern.
"There wouldn't be a need for any tax increase if the governor and legislators hadn't overextended themselves," said John Sheridan, director of New Jersey Citizens for Tax Reform. "The whole problem is there has been no cuts in spending."
But others say that since the transportation system is crucial to the state's economy, it makes good fiscal sense to shore up its financing while times are good. Former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, a Republican, began the transportation fund in 1984 and said it was intended to operate on a pay-as-you-go basis. His successors, Governors Florio and Whitman, have borrowed to finance many transportation projects, and the fund is now $4 billion in debt.
The fund takes in about $480 million a year in taxes, tolls and vehicle registration fees, $360 million of which comes from the gasoline tax. It was authorized to spend $900 million this year, including $157 million on building roads and rail lines and $367 million on debt service.
Many state officials say a gas tax can help the fund move back toward a pay-as-you-go approach and reduce its high debt costs. The governor has said that a gas tax is one of the least objectionable ways to raise money for roads because it is levied on people who use the transportation system and produces a tangible benefit. Mr. Collins, who has stopped short of saying he will definitely support a gas tax increase, said another advantage was that about a third of the gasoline sold in New Jersey was bought by nonresidents.
Mr. DiFrancesco's alternative proposal calls for diverting taxes now collected on auto sales and wholesale fuel products, money that now goes into the general spending fund. But even his fellow Republicans say that Mr. DiFrancesco, who would like to succeed Mrs. Whitman as governor, will have to offer specific spending cuts to sell the program to legislators, the public and Wall Street analysts who rate New Jersey's bonds.
Richard H. Bagger, a Republican who is chairman of the Assembly appropriations committee, said he would not support any more borrowing for the trust fund, and would wait until Mr. DiFrancesco released more details on his proposal before deciding whether a gasoline tax increase could be avoided. If the increase is unavoidable, Mr. Bagger said, voters can be convinced that it is sound policy. "If people see what they're getting for their money -- better roads -- I think the public can accept that," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TRANSPORTATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REBATES; PROPERTY TAXES; PUBLIC OPINION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GASOLINE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (88%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SMOKING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); BONDS (70%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); BOND ISSUES (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



708 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: In Manhattan, a Battle Over Nine Acres w/Rvr Vu

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
It is a developer's dream: nine acres along a prime stretch of the East River, just south of the United Nations, the kind of property that rarely comes on the market anymore in this real estate crazed city.
Now, the Consolidated Edison Company is selling the site, which includes a 99-year-old steam-generated power plant, one of the last vestiges of Manhattan's industrial past. Two developers are locked in a last-minute battle for the chance to demolish a power plant on the property and build up to five million square feet of luxury apartment towers and office buildings. The price tag? A half-billion dollars. 
 The property is more than twice the size of the Columbus Circle development site at the southwest corner of Central Park, which was sold last year for $345 million, but it is smaller than the historic 12-acre Rockefeller Center complex. In a city where the skyline is writ larger every year, the sale of such a rare piece of land has already drawn the intense interest not only of developers, but also of their inevitable combatants, community preservation advocates.
"It's probably the most important parcel left in New York City," said Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of Related Companies, which is developing the Columbus Circle site but lost out in the bidding for the Con Ed parcels. "And it should have a master plan for development. The biggest problem in New York today is that there's nothing else around."
Con Ed executives said that the company had not picked a buyer for the four parcels along First Avenue, between 35th and 41st Streets, that compose the nine acres. Real estate executives, however, said that the Fisher real estate family, and its partners -- Sheldon Solow, a developer, and the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter investment bank -- appeared on Monday to be the winners of the hotly contested, 14-month-long auction for the site. But yesterday morning, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the chairman of Boston Properties, and his partners -- the developers Leonard Litwin and Donald Zucker -- unexpectedly made a slightly better offer, setting off other another tense round of negotiating.
"We don't have a winner yet," said Robert P. Stelben, the treasurer of Con Ed, who oversaw the auction. "We'll be talking a little later this week and be able to tell you what's going on. Anything other than that is premature."
Whichever developer wins, the deal will have to be approved by Con Ed's board of directors. It will also take another month or two to negotiate the final details of a contract.
But once a developer is selected, the project faces myriad obstacles before the first spade can go in the ground.
For one, Con Ed has to obtain approval from the Public Service Commission to demolish the huge Waterside Steam Plant, which sits on the largest of the four parcels, between 38th and 40th Streets, at the East River. To do that, the company has to enhance the steam-generating capacity at its 14th Street plant, a process that could take three years. The renovated plant is to have a larger generating capacity than the two current plants together.
At the same time, the properties must go though the city's always contentious land use review process and an environmental review before residential and commercial development is allowed in the existing manufacturing site. One unknown is the extent of environmental problems, possibly including asbestos removal, that might emerge with the demolition of the power plant.
Several bidders said that Joseph P. Rose, chairman of the city's Planning Department, had indicated to them in private meetings that the city would ultimately permit towers of up to 45 or 50 stories for a development that is required to include green space and an esplanade.
"Rose's implicit statement was: No Donald Trumps," one bidder said, in a reference to that developer's planned 72-story residential tower at First Avenue and 48th Street, which provoked protests because it will loom 300 feet over the United Nations.
The three parcels are not contiguous: two blocks of residential towers separate the riverfront properties.
Although many local residents might be glad to see the smokestacks at the Waterside plant disappear, they do not want to see them replaced by a forest of tall towers that would overwhelm the United Nations or the nearby apartment houses at Tudor City. In the last decade, soaring residential towers have sprouted nearby on the sites of former warehouses, factories and bottling plants.
This fall, the East Midtown Coalition for Sensible Development, which includes thousands of condominium and cooperative owners in the neighborhoods of Turtle Bay and Murray Hill, sought unsuccessfully to persuade Con Ed to halt the land sale until the company could devise a design acceptable to the group. Since then they have been joined by the Municipal Art Society and the Natural Resources Defense Council, and the groups have vowed to intervene with both the city review process and the Public Service Commission.
"We have an opportunity to do something at the level of Battery Park City in terms of urban design, architecture and waterfront access," said Richard Kahn, an urban planner and a leader of the coalition. "These opportunities come up once in a generation. We look forward to working a development team that shares those objectives."
Some of those concerned about Con Ed's plans are veterans of the battle against Riverwalk, a proposed development along the East River near Stuyvesant Town, which succumbed in the early 90's after a decade of community opposition, lawsuits and a downturn in the economy.
"We feel it's better, safer and quicker to start dealing with the community early on," said Edward Rubin, a longtime member of Community Board 6, which includes the Con Ed property. "All large projects in this town inevitably end up in a lawsuit that could drag on for 10 years. That's destructive. If we could work together, it could go quicker."
The Fisher family has built about 10 million square feet of office space, most of it in Manhattan, and owns a string of hotels, while Mr. Solow has built both commercial and residential buildings on the East Side. The Fishers' construction company is building a headquarters for Random House on Broadway at 55th Street.
Mr. Zuckerman's company, a real estate investment trust, owns 132 commercial properties totaling 35.3 million square feet in New York, Boston, Washington and San Francisco. Early next year, Boston Properties will start building an office tower in Times Square for Ernst & Young, the accounting firm. Mr. Zuckerman's partners have built apartment houses up and down Manhattan avenues.
The land sale is part of Con Ed's state-mandated transformation from a regulated monopoly to a company that transmits and distributes electric power and gas provided by other companies. Earlier this year, the company sold three New York City power plants for $550 million, and announced plans to acquire Northeast Utilities in a $3.3 billion deal that would make it one of the largest utilities in the country.
Con Ed and its adviser, Cushman & Wakefield, the national commercial brokerage, first offered for sale three parcels along First Avenue. More than a year ago, they added the Waterside plant to the mix.
With three of the four properties facing the East River, the auction process drew dozens of developers, including Mr. Ross, Jerry I. Speyer, George Klein and the Pritzker family, before Con Ed selected the two finalists. Large construction sites are so rare today that developers are afraid of being caught without any land to develop.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: It's the location: nine acres along the East River, just south of the United Nations. Major developers are fighting for the right to pay Consolidated Edison about a half-billion dollars to tear down a 99-year-old steam-generated power plant and replace it with high-rise apartment and office towers. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; BOSTON PROPERTIES CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER; BOSTON PROPERTIES UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; FISHER FAMILY; SOLOW, SHELDON; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



709 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Hijackers Raise Demands For Release of Hostages
The armed men holding an Indian Airlines jet at the airport in Kandahar, Afghanistan, increased the pressure on India's government by demanding that India pay them $200 million and release 35 jailed militants, India's foreign minister said, as more than 150 hostages faced a fifth claustrophobic night of captivity on board the plane. A1
 
Barak Averts Coalition Breakup
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel resolved a potentially destabilizing political crisis by persuading Shas, the third-largest party, to stay in his coalition with an offer of greater financing and debt relief for its state-subsidized religious schools. A1 
 
Israel handed over the bodies of two Hezbollah guerrillas killed in recent fighting in Lebanon. A12
 
New Storm Blasts France
France was buffeted by a new storm, which killed 22 people, raising the death toll since Christmas to at least 66, officials said. Storms have left more than 100 people dead in Western Europe in the last four days. A4
 
Mexico Budget Is Approved
Congress passed a $128 billion federal budget for 2000, averting a year-end government shutdown. A3
 
U.N. to Review NATO in Kosovo
The chief war crimes prosecutor is reviewing the conduct of NATO pilots and commanders during the bombing campaign against Yugoslavia last spring. The war crimes tribunal cannot indict governments or organizations, but can press charges against individuals. A5
 
Long War Ahead, Russia Admits
The military, facing heavy resistance from Islamic militants, conceded that the fighting in Chechnya could drag on for several months. A8
 
The United States will not seek to block economic aid to Russia as punishment for its Chechnya campaign, an administration official said. A8
 
The Future of the Ivory Coast
The former army chief who seized power in Ivory Coast last week, Gen. Robert Guei, met with foreign diplomats and vowed to honor his country's huge foreign debts. A11
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-23
 
An Edgy Seattle Calls Off Its Millennium Party
Mayor Paul Schell said officials had canceled the public New Year's Eve celebration at the Space Needle because of security concerns that included the recent arrest of a man on explosives charges and the protests that accompanied the world trade talks. Officials in New York, Chicago and Washington said their cities' festivities would proceed. A16
 
Seeking More Housing Vouchers
President Clinton will propose 120,000 new housing vouchers for low-income families in the federal budget that he will send to Congress in February, administration officials said of the $690 million plan that would be the largest expansion of the housing program in a decade. A18
 
Surgery for Tipper Gore
Tipper Gore, the wife of Vice President Al Gore underwent surgery to remove a growth from her thyroid gland. The growth will be tested to see if it is cancerous. A22
 
Scientist's Bail Hearing
A supervisor of Wen Ho Lee, the weapons scientist charged with mishandling nuclear secrets, testified that Dr. Lee had told him that he might have inadvertently disclosed secrets to a foreign country. A23
 
U.S. Arrests Arms Dealer
Sarkis Soghanalian, 70, who has been an ally as well as a target of American intelligence and law enforcement, has been arrested in Miami under a year-old indictment accusing him of money laundering, tax evasion and bank fraud. A23
 
Recall of Delicacies
D'Artagnan, a New Jersey company, recalled 26 of its products, including foie gras pates, mousses and terrines, and has forced the closing of the New York plant that produced them because of possible contamination with the sometimes deadly bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. A20
 
Child Abandonment Charges
The chief executive of the PQ chemical company and his wife were arrested after they left their severely disabled son in the emergency room of a Delaware hospital with a note saying they could no longer care for him, the authorities said. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Mayor Says His Overhaul Of Welfare Is Complete
Mayor Giuliani said he had fulfilled a pledge made 18 months ago to end welfare as New York City has known it by shifting thousands of recipients into work, job training or treatment and taking benefits from the rest. He said all able-bodied recipients without infant children were now in jobs or taking steps to get them. A1
 
A Choice Plot of Real Estate
Con Ed is selling a nine-acre parcel along a prime stretch of the East River, south of the United Nations, for a half-billion dollars, and two developers are battling for the land and the opportunity to build up to five million square feet of luxury apartment towers and office buildings. A1
 
Senate Passes Lobbying Bill
The State Senate approved a bill that would toughen the law regulating lobbying in New York. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
EDUCATION B9
 
Crew's Contract Is Bought Out
The Board of Education decided to buy out the last six months of Chancellor Rudy Crew's $245,000-a-year salary, plus other provisions, officials said. A Jan. 12 deadline was set for naming an interim chancellor. A1
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Leading Contender for Jets
Charles Dolan, the chairman of Cablevision, which owns three sports teams, is expected to be named the new owner of the Jets in a couple of weeks, a person familiar with the bidding said. Dolan is said to be willing to pay $615 million. D5
 
OBITUARIES B7-8
 
Clayton Moore
The Lone Ranger in 169 episodes of the popular television series that ran from 1949 to 1957, as well as in promotional appearances and advertisements for many years after, he was 85. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
No Computer Threat Foreseen
Computer security experts in and out of government said almost no evidence had materialized that hackers or terrorists were plotting widespread disruption of computer networks over New Year's weekend. C1
 
DaimlerChrysler Posts Profit
The automaker, which was formed on Nov. 12, 1998, when Daimler-Benz of Germany bought Chrysler, said preliminary figures showed that 1999 revenue for the new company had increased 12.3 percent and that operating profits had risen even more. C1
 
Dow Soars as Nasdaq Falters
The Dow climbed 85.63 points, to 11,476.71, a record, but the Nasdaq ended 3.27 points lower, at 3,972.11. The S.& P. 500 barely budged, rising 0.56 point, to 1,457.66. C9
 
Shares in Tokyo, Seoul, Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur rose again. C3
 
Deal With Argentine Publisher
Goldman Sachs agreed to acquire a stake in Grupo Clarin of Argentina, the publisher of the largest-circulation newspaper in the Spanish-speaking world, for $500 million. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-16
 
DINING F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: New Year's Eve security issues; a delicate time for the schools; another destructive coup; equality on the golf course.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E13
 
TV Listings E15
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather C20
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: INDIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (72%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); HEZBOLLAH (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); HEZBOLLAH (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARRESTS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); ARMIES (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); POOR POPULATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); WAR CRIMES (71%); MILLENNIUM (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); RELIGION (69%); FAMILY (63%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (54%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (75%); EHUD BARAK (71%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



710 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Dolan Seen as Winning As Jet Bidding Heats Up

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS and MIKE FREEMAN 

 BODY:
The bidding for the Jets isn't over, but Charles Dolan is expected to be announced in the next couple of weeks as the new owner of the team, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said yesterday. Dolan, whose Cablevision owns two basketball teams and a hockey team, is so eager to acquire the Jets that he has agreed to pay $615 million, the person said.
Dolan's bid exceeds the current offer of $600 million by Robert Wood Johnson IV. However, another person involved in the negotiations said last night that Johnson would submit a revised bid today that would exceed $600 million. 
 Earlier yesterday, National Football League officials said there was a chance that Johnson would outbid Dolan, but not a very likely one.
The $615 million price, one expert on the purchase of sports teams said, is an enormous one to pay for a team that until this year was a perennial loser financially. The Jets have projected a profit of about $11.5 million this year.
The person with knowledge of the negotiations said it seemed apparent as the sale proceeded that the strategy of Goldman, Sachs, the investment-banking concern conducting the sale, was to use the interest of Johnson -- who is an heir to the Johnson & Johnson fortune -- as a way to induce Dolan to raise his bid. That strategy may still be at work in Johnson's new bid today.
Dolan, 73, who unsuccessfully bid for the Washington Redskins and expansion Cleveland Browns, has had to deal with another hurdle in his quest of owning an N.F.L. team. Although the league said this month that its finance committee would wait until the estate of Leon Hess, the late owner, made its decision on a buyer before reviewing the prospective owner, league officials have already been dealing with the ownership issue that Dolan would present.
The N.F.L. bars corporate ownership of its teams because of the concern that a large corporation would have endless economic resources with which to operate. Dolan is buying the team as an individual, but the league wants to put controls in place that would ensure that his ownership of the Jets remains separate from Cablevision. One person described those talks as being difficult.
As chairman of Cablevision, Dolan has a stable of teams that include the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty of the Women's National Basketball Association and other enterprises that include Madison Square Garden and the MSG cable network. Dolan has also been negotiating to buy the Mets. An announcement about the baseball team had been expected by the end of the year, but nothing has been forthcoming.
If Dolan takes over the Jets, he is expected to try to increase the team's revenue by getting a new stadium. The Jets' lease at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., runs through 2008 and severely limits the Jets' income. Although some people believe Dolan would like to return the Jets to New York, one friend said yesterday that he would be happy to have the team play anywhere in the metropolitan region where he could obtain a new stadium.
Dolan, in the estimation of league officials, is also expected to be a hands-off owner in the manner of Hess. Thus, as Bill Parcells continues to weigh his decision on whether to remain as the team's coach and general manager, the fact that he may soon have a new owner unlikely to prowl the sideline may sway him toward remaining at least one more season.
As for when a new Jets owner might be named, N.F.L. owners will gather in New York for a special meeting on Jan. 18, at which time they are expected to address the Jets' situation. It is quite possible they will vote to approve a new owner at the meeting, based on a recommendation from the finance committee. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (67%); GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (54%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (54%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (54%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (54%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (54%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (54%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BASEBALL (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); 

PERSON: DOLAN, CHARLES F; CHASS, MURRAY; FREEMAN, MIKE CHARLES DOLAN (93%); JAMES L DOLAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



711 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Loosening His Image In Effort to Counter McCain

SERIES: STATE OF THE CAMPAIGN: George W. Bush

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
For George W. Bush, a typical day on the campaign trail used to involve a $1,000-a-head fund-raiser or two, several skin-chafing marathons of hand shaking and a few rote recitations of his maxim-laden stump speech.
But in New Hampshire over the next several weeks, Mr. Bush plans to change all that. He will stage more of the free-wheeling, question-and-answer sessions that have been the strength and staple of Senator John McCain of Arizona, his chief rival for the Republican presidential nomination. 
 Mr. Bush's television commercials will also take on a new look and feel. In addition to the carefully posed, painstakingly produced spots that the Bush campaign has already put on the air, New Hampshire voters will see advertisements that bear the legend "campaign update" and show uninterrupted, straightforward snippets of Mr. Bush engaging the state's voters.
To aides like Mr. Bush's chief media adviser, Mark McKinnon, these newsreel-like, miniature documentaries are intended to affirm "just how hard the governor is working to earn every vote in New Hampshire."
But both of these adjustments seem like unmistakable acknowledgements of the deep trouble Mr. Bush finds himself facing in New Hampshire with the presidential primary just a month away.
Although Mr. Bush remains the overwhelming favorite to win the Republican nomination with tens of millions of dollars just waiting to be spent, he has failed to repel the pesky challenge posed by Mr. McCain, whose campaign is short on money but long on spirit. In fact, even Mr. Bush acknowledges that Mr. McCain is now the front-runner in New Hampshire.
While the moves clearly reflect Mr. McCain's surge in the New Hampshire polls, they also address a wider perception of Mr. Bush as a heavily scripted candidate who became the Republican front-runner by dint of his name and a collective Republican hunch and has yet to subject himself to the kind of sustained, exacting scrutiny that he must.
"We've agreed upon steps that we're putting into place, mid-course corrections," said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief strategist, speaking in particular of New Hampshire, where some members of the Bush team recently complained publicly about the paucity and formality of Mr. Bush's appearances.
For much of the period since he officially kicked off his campaign in June, Mr. Bush, the Texas governor, was busy canvassing the whole country, raising an unprecedented amount of money and giving himself ample family time and rest. Rare was the weekend when he scheduled a campaign appearance outside of Texas; a typical week put him on the road for no more than three and a half days.
But with only about a month to go before the Iowa caucus and New Hampshire primary jump-start a frenzied nominating process, that, too, is about to change.
"It'll be wall to wall in January," said Ari Fleischer, a campaign spokesman. "And it'll be geographically confined to the following states: Iowa, Iowa, Iowa and Iowa. New Hampshire, New Hampshire, New Hampshire and New Hampshire. And South Carolina, South Carolina and South Carolina."
That is not to say there is anything even remotely resembling a sense of panic among those around Mr. Bush, whose position remains the envy of his five Republican opponents.
In national polls, he continues to trump Mr. McCain by dizzying double-digit margins of more than 40 percentage points. Outside of Arizona, Mr. McCain's home state, and New Hampshire, which Mr. McCain could claim as a second residence at this point, Mr. Bush seems to have a lead in every state with an early contest.
Additionally, his campaign's estimated haul of more than $65 million in contributions means that Mr. Bush has the financial resources to advertise heavily anywhere his lead seems to be slipping. Mr. McCain's tally is less than a third of that sum.
"I have no doubt that Governor Bush will be the nominee of this party," said Ralph Reed, one of his advisers, in a recent interview. "None."
Mr. Rove added that Mr. Bush has an insurance policy that most candidates do not: an army of about 4,000 workers, mostly volunteers, including campaign chairmen and chairwomen not just in many states, but also in many counties, cities and towns.
"What that means is that when the little local Republican club has its meeting, there's a Bush surrogate there, there's Bush material being distributed," Mr. Rove explained. "We have an organization everywhere, and we can deliver a message everywhere."
Yet the adjustments that Mr. Bush's campaign is making suggest an awareness that a few mistakes have been made and a few problems created, that the once-magical spell enveloping his candidacy has been broken and that any residual glimmer of overconfidence could shrink the long odds against an upset victory by Mr. McCain.
A few recent polls contained some encouraging news for Mr. McCain. The surveys showed that while Mr. McCain still trails Mr. Bush by large margins in South Carolina and Michigan, he has collapsed the distance between him and the front-runner considerably. And in Iowa, where Mr. McCain has devoted virtually no time or energy, he nonetheless has double-digit support.
Small wonder, then, that Mr. Bush's advisers said that in both his public remarks in January and in upcoming commercials, Mr. Bush will more boldly underscore the distinctions between him and Mr. McCain, principally by focusing on two areas, taxes and education, where Mr. Bush and his team feel they have put forward more detailed, coherent and innovative proposals than Mr. McCain has.
Mr. McCain's crusade for changes in campaign finance laws has proven popular with independent voters, but Mr. Bush will continue to try to counter that with an effort to persuade Republicans that the McCain plan is flawed and would give Democrats an unfair advantage in elections.
At the same time, Mr. Bush's advisers have, over the past few weeks, begun to acknowledge that Mr. Bush may indeed lose New Hampshire. And they have begun to talk about why that does not matter or why that would be good for Mr. Bush, in that his eventual capture of the Republican nomination would then seem more like a mettle-proving triumph and less like an easy coronation.
But the attention they are poised to pay to New Hampshire indicates that they have by no means ceded the state and that, if they lose it, they want Mr. McCain's victory to be too narrow to give him any real momentum elsewhere.
Mr. Bush and his advisers also seem to see the way they campaign in New Hampshire over the coming weeks as an opportunity to repudiate some of the negative appraisals of Mr. Bush as an overly programmed and excessively cautious candidate, a task that political analysts said could affect how deft a segue Mr. Bush is able to make into the general election.
"The greatest challenge for Governor Bush is justifying the confidence that numerous Republicans and contributors have placed in him," said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster. "A great many people gave him money and lined up behind him before they knew him that well. He needs to give them some reassurance that their initial judgment is wise."
Indeed, Mr. Bush's tepid performances in debates earlier this month created a palpable sense of unease among some Republican officials and contributed to a gelling image of Mr. Bush in the media as a smug student ill-prepared for the exam he has sauntered into.
"I find it hard to buy the lightweight line, but the Democrats are repeating that mantra, and it's getting play in the press," noted Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist. "He needs to be conscious of it."
Bruce Buchanan, a political scientist at the University of Texas, said that the success of Mr. Bush's candidacy down the road could hinge on whether journalists and other opinion makers keep raising questions about Mr. Bush's gravity and depth and whether that creates qualms among other voters.
"I don't think it's a lead-pipe cinch they will care," Mr. Buchanan said, "but they could take cues from that media emphasis, and then the question is whether he can establish that kind of credibility."
Several of Mr. Bush's advisers dismissed the recurring questions about Mr. Bush's mastery of policy or intellectual dexterity as insider chatter that will seem condescending to most Americans, and Mr. Bush has professed little or no concern about it.
"In the '94 campaign, the same thing happened," Mr. Bush told reporters in Manchester, N.H., a week ago, on a last swing through the state before the holiday break. He was referring to his first, successful race for governor.
"People said he's Daddy's boy and they said he's not smart enough to be governor, he hasn't had the experience," Mr. Bush said. "Look who's standing here as governor of Texas."
Still, his advisers' unbridled elation after the third December debate, in which Mr. Bush appeared much more forceful and confident than in the previous forums, suggested that they were more troubled by criticisms of Mr. Bush than they had let on.
And Mr. Bush's response when Larry King broached the subject in an interview on CNN on Dec. 16 gave the impression that Mr. Bush is just as anxious to put the topic to rest.
Although he often mentions his abhorrence of name-dropping and pretension, intellectual and otherwise, and prides himself on being more of a Texan than a Northeasterner, he invoked the ivy-draped atmospheres of his college and business school when talking to Mr. King about political opponents who questioned his smarts in the past.
"They ignored the fact that I went to Yale and Harvard," Mr. Bush said, neglecting to point out that his last name undoubtedly helped his admission to both places.
Mr. Bush had not previously appeared on Mr. King's CNN program, and his agreement to the interview, along with a last-minute extension of it to a full hour from a half, reflected his campaign's conclusion that Mr. Bush generally did better in one-on-one situations than in group formats, according to one adviser.
But the adviser said Mr. Bush and his aides understood that he must take care to ward off accusations that he was trying to exert too much control over his public showcases.
To that end, Mr. Bush has agreed to at least four more debates in January, even though his campaign had once expected that Mr. Bush would do a total of two debates in December and January combined.
The game has changed since then, and so has Mr. Bush's game plan, although some advisers said that the alterations were inevitable.
"Iowa and New Hampshire have a cherished history of punishing complacent front-runners," Mr. Reed said. "So all this activity conveys the message: I'm working hard, I'm not taking you for granted."
 
AT A GLANCE: The Bush Campaign
 
HEADQUARTERS: Austin, Tex.
STAFF SIZE: 185 full-time paid workers.
TOP CAMPAIGN STAFF: At the head of George W. Bush's campaign is a troika of longtime aides: the campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh, who has never guided a national effort; the chief strategist, Karl Rove, a veteran Republican operative, and the communications director, Karen P. Hughes, who has been Mr. Bush's spokeswoman since his successful race for Texas governor in 1994. The top media strategist is Mark McKinnon, a former Democratic operative who joined Mr. Bush for his 1998 re-election campaign.
CASH ON HAND: Mr. Bush's aides would not release a figure, but the campaign's estimated fund-raising of more than $65 million and its spending through September suggest that he still has tens of millions of dollars.
PROMINENT ADVISERS: Chief foreign policy adviser is Condoleezza Rice, a former provost of Stanford University who was a Russia specialist on the National Security Council under Mr. Bush's father. Chief domestic policy adviser is former Mayor Stephen Goldsmith of Indianapolis. Chief economic adviser is Lawrence B. Lindsey, a Harvard-trained, supply-side economist who worked under Presidents George Bush and Ronald Reagan. Mr. Bush is also close to several other Republican governors, particularly Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, John Engler of Michigan and Marc Racicot of Montana.
BEST MOVES SO FAR: By raising so much money and lining up so many Republican endorsements early in the year, Mr. Bush established himself as the most formidable candidate in the field. And with his catch phrase of "compassionate conservatism," he signaled to Republicans that he was ready to compete with any Democratic nominee for the political center.
WORST MOVES SO FAR: Mr. Bush's absence from two early Republican candidate forums in New Hampshire led to complaints that he was an aloof front-runner, and his limited investment of time in the state may have helped Senator John McCain pull ahead there. Mr. Bush's flubbing of a televised pop quiz on lesser-known international figures gave rise to questions about his preparedness for the presidency.
CHALLENGES AHEAD: Mr. Bush must try to deny Mr. McCain any kind of resounding victory in New Hampshire. And he needs to convince voters that he can think on his feet and speak without resorting to slogans and canned remarks.
 
State of the Campaign
 This is the third in a series of status reports on the campaigns of the top contenders for the Democratic and Republican nominations as they enter the primary season. Next: The McCain campaign.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush, with Kevin Dewhurst earlier this month while campaigning in Manchester, N.H. Mr. Bush plans many more visits to the state. (Associated Press)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); KARL ROVE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



712 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI PROCLAIMS SUCCESS ON PLEDGE TO CURB WELFARE

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that he had fulfilled the pledge he made 18 months ago to end welfare as New York City knows it by shifting thousands of recipients into work, job training or treatment, and taking away benefits from the rest.
Mr. Giuliani said that all able-bodied welfare recipients without infant children were now either in jobs or taking steps to get them. "Today marks the milestone of replacing the culture of dependency in New York City with the culture of work and employment," he said. 
 But City Council members immediately challenged the mayor's numbers, pointing out that fewer than a quarter of the people he classified as able to work were actually documented as working. For example, he counted as successes recipients who had merely been referred for evaluation for work or other programs.
City Councilman Stephen DiBrienza said that while the mayor was implying that 137,542 people were now working for their benefits, City Hall had stretched the definitions so much that "for thousands upon thousands of them, it simply means they got a letter."
The councilman added, "They've created this tough piece in search of a headline so the mayor can say he fulfilled his promise, and I think it's complete hype."
Keeping his welfare promise is of great importance to Mr. Giuliani, who is the likely Republican candidate for the United States Senate next year. He made the pledge in July 1998, vowing, "By the year 2000, New York will be the first city in the nation, on its own, to end welfare."
The mayor wanted to go beyond the federal government's workfare requirements by moving every recipient who was able to work into jobs or programs intended to prepare them for jobs. And in the last four months, the city's Human Resources Administration has been under intense pressure to meet the mayor's goal as he and the welfare commissioner, Jason A. Turner, defined it: reducing to zero a target population of 48,141 adult recipients considered able to work, or about 15 percent of those on the rolls when the mayor made his pledge.
Yesterday, Mr. Giuliani declared that that goal had been met. "The most important thing is, we have everyone engaged, either in working in the private sector, working in the public sector, in the workfare program or engaged in a process of being evaluated in order to work," he said. "The purpose of this is to make sure that people if they can take care of themselves are given the opportunity to take care of themselves."
Mr. Giuliani demanded more than the federal welfare overhaul of 1996, which set limits on benefits but did not require all adult recipients to work. But in arriving at his target population in July 1998, the mayor discounted the vast majority of recipients -- who now number 630,000, two-thirds of them children. About 52,000 of the adults on the shrinking caseload were exempt by federal law from working, including those over 60, mothers of infants under 3 months and people with AIDS.
Another 66,000 were indefinitely or temporarily incapacitated because of poor health or disabilities, while 123,000 were classified as already working or in "work-related activities," and 41,000 had been cited for missing appointments or failing to follow welfare rules.
By Mr. Turner's count, that left the target population of 48,141 -- people who had not been assigned by the city to any of a variety of programs combining job search, work, education or treatment in what is supposed to simulate a 35-hour work week.
Complicating the task was that people are constantly moving on and off the rolls, Mr. Turner noted.
One of the mayor's main strategies for further shrinking welfare was to transform welfare centers to "job centers" where applicants were turned away and told to seek work or charity instead. But the plan was halted earlier this year when a federal court found that welfare workers had violated the law by denying Medicaid and food stamps to those entitled to them.
Though a higher percentage of people applying for assistance continued to be rejected this year than under previous administrations, tougher procedures also resulted in a sharp drop in recipients classified as temporarily unfit to work for health reasons. That number fell from 39,000 in July 1998 to 6,824 in the week of Aug. 24, 1999, before reaching a plateau of about 7,500.
In late August, with time running out, Mr. Turner by his own count was still 24,000 recipients from the goal. One group of people not counted as available to work by Mr. Turner's definition were those under sanction for missing appointments or breaking other welfare rules, a figure that had risen modestly from 15,704, when the mayor made his pledge, to 17,306 more than a year later.
But in less than four months, between late August and mid-December, as the pressure to reach zero intensified, that number jumped 32 percent, by more than 5,700 people, to 23,000 parents. Also no longer counted were another 34,000 adults cited for failing to follow the rules, but not yet penalized.
Critics of Mr. Giuliani's policies on welfare say that the homeless and the mentally ill are especially vulnerable to sanctions for missing notices or failing to supply documentation. The sanctions include loss of all benefits for adults without children, and loss of a parent's portion of the grant for families. And for the homeless, new policies under legal challenge make those under sanction ineligible for shelter.
Since the city's own figures show an average of only 41,000 recipients in workfare assignments, the critics ask what is being done by the rest of the 137,542 recipients classified by the mayor as "engaged" -- up from 123,254 in July 1998.
Mr. Turner said 32,000 work at private jobs paying too little to disqualify them from aid, and 69,000 are in work-related activities, the rest in treatment or referral stages.
"He's been under the gun," said Liz Krueger, director of the Community Food Resource Center. "You either get them in 35 hours' work, or you get them off welfare. One person at H.R.A. joked to me, 'If we tell you to ride the subways for 35 hours a week and look at the posters, we call them engaged, so the mayor can have his state of the city address and say, 'Eureka, I did it.' "
Asked about the spike in welfare sanctions, Mr. Turner described them as a necessary tool to push people into helpful programs, including new contracted services aimed at training the more disabled and troubled population left on public assistance in a strong economy.
"It's naive to think otherwise," he said, adding that sanctions were bound to increase. "We had 48,000 who were sitting on the sidelines, and by definition could not be subject to being sanctioned, because they were doing nothing."
Mr. Turner said last summer that he was trying to set a "float" -- a number of people who could be discounted -- because they were so new to the system that it was unrealistic to expect them to be evaluated, let alone working.
But by Dec. 17, reviewing his progress with four aides, Mr. Turner said the definitions had been readjusted to eliminate the need for such a category, and a new level of management scrutiny had been applied to the target group, which had been whittled to 304 by Dec. 12.
The pressure became so intense that his staff worked weekends to find and contact the last 72 on the list before Dec. 20. But during those eight days alone, city numbers show, another 169 recipients were also discounted because of new punishments that docked their benefits, usually by a third to half the normal grant.
"It all comes down to creating bureaucratic opportunities for closing cases," said Richard Blum, a lawyer at the Legal Aid Society.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Counting Cases"
Here is how the mayor's office designates those place in the workfare system.
 
266,628 cases total; none unnassigned as of Dec. 20, 1999
23,004 Penalized for failing to participate
33,857 Contesting work requirements
7,584 Unable to work; temporarily disabled
20,099 Unable to work; indefinitely disabled
50,480 Exempt because of age, disability or caring for a newborn
131,604 Working, assigned to a job or training program, or being evaluated
(Source: Human Resources Administration)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



713 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to the Asian Century?

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma; Ian Buruma, the author of "Anglomania," is writing a book on Chinese dissidents.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Some 15 years before the end of this millennium, the cry went up that the Asians were coming; the Japanese had bought Rockefeller Center, then chunks of Hollywood, and soon they would rule the world.
Politicians, pundits and even novelists rode the bandwagon, explaining why Japan, with the rest of East Asia in tow, was about to conquer the world. Some were panicked, while others were more admiring and wanted us to mimic the Japanese in one way or another. The shrillest critics sounded oddly like extreme nationalists in Japan, who ascribed Japanese success to unique cultural traits and were quite confident that the 21st century would be theirs. 
 The supposedly advantageous Asian traits, or "values," included collective discipline, hard work, ethnic homogeneity, omnipotent bureaucracy, autocratic government, strict morals or Confucian ethics (whatever that meant), and an unshakable belief in national destiny. The main point, in any case, was that Asians, and the Japanese in particular, were on the verge of economic dominance and Westerners, Americans in particular, were soft, lazy, decadent dupes. The West was suffering from too much messy democracy. It needed a swig of bitter Asian medicine.
It all sounds a bit silly now. Michael Crichton's 1992 novel "Rising Sun," in which predatory Japanese conglomerates virtually take over Los Angeles, looks as quaint these days as Sax Rohmer's stories about the demonic Dr. Fu Manchu.
Still, it would be foolish simply to dismiss Asian achievements and potential now that Americans feel richer and many Asians have taken a cold bath. For Asia will have its ups again, just as the West will have its downs. One need only look at Silicon Valley's dependence on expatriate Chinese, Koreans, Japanese and Indians. What they can do in California, they could surely do at home, if only they got half a chance.
And therein lies the rub. Will they get the chance? That is the question we must answer if we are to speculate about Asian success in the next hundred years. The idea of an Asian century is in itself absurd. "Asia" is too big, too vague and too diverse to serve as a useful concept. Only Singaporeans and Malaysians like to refer to themselves as "Asians," and that is because they are not sure how else to describe themselves.
In all likelihood, parts of Asia will do very well in the coming century, but not for the reasons boosters, paranoids and nationalists were talking about a decade ago. The formula of state discipline, efficient workers, low wages and an absence of nonsense about independent unions is all very fine in a country that needs to get heavy industries going. But these advantages are less obvious in more sophisticated economies.
Low crime rates, often held up as a mark of Japanese or Singaporean superiority, are obviously a good thing, but perhaps not a necessary condition for economic success in the 21st century. After all, the United States has relatively high crime rates, yet its economy has surged ahead.
Likewise, ethnic homogeneity might appeal to Japanese nationalists, but American and, increasingly, European success depends on precisely the opposite. Even Singapore is now trying to attract foreigners with useful skills.
One thing is certain: For a country, a city or a region to thrive in the age of information technology, its citizens must be flexible, creative, individualistic, cosmopolitan, free and, preferably, conversant in English. And these are just the qualities that East Asian "Confucian" education, with its stress on rote learning and obedience, is set up to discourage, if not actively stamp out.
But not all of Asia lies under the shadow of Confucius, and even those parts that do are loosening up. There are enough people in Asia who think for themselves, and they will thrive wherever they are freest -- that is, in the most democratic, least hidebound parts of Asia. These may sometimes be the very places with high crime rates, much ethnic mixing and slack social discipline: Bombay, not Pyongyang; Bangkok, not Rangoon. Even Tokyo now has a large population of immigrants, and the Japanese are beginning to jaywalk -- a positive sign if ever there was one.
Japan is unlikely to dominate the century, but it will surely continue to dominate Asia well into the next century. Despite its problems, the Japanese economy is still richer, larger and more sophisticated than any other in Asia.
More interesting, as I see it, will be the rise of several cities of great potential, including Jakarta and Manila. These cities have a large number of highly educated, cosmopolitan young people and have recently acquired political liberties that will surely give them a boost. (People forget that only 40 years ago Manila was the most modern Asian city west of Tokyo.)
The most vertiginous rise of all, however, might happen in India, or at least parts of India. Already many commercial transactions initiated in London or New York are in fact being carried out on computers in Bangalore. Once Indian governments unlearn some of the more dogmatic lessons of Fabian socialism imbibed by earlier generations at the London School of Economics, and give young Indians the freedom they need, India could quickly overtake China. And then? Rockefeller Center, perhaps?
That leaves China, the last large Asian country still trying to combine authoritarian government with capitalist enterprise: freedom is to be sacrificed to the promise of collective prosperity. It is, if you like, the test case of those vaunted "Asian values." And I can see it ending in tears.
It is hard to imagine how a nation's economy can keep on growing without freedom of information, without its citizens having the right to question their leaders and without laws that are based on popular consent and that people will obey. Leaders who are above criticism will make terrible mistakes. And laws that are constantly abused will make business impossible.
And yet, anyone who has recently been to Shenzhen, Canton or Shanghai will have seen young Chinese, computer-literate, enterprising, free-spirited and almost frighteningly eager to take on the world. The will and the talent are there. If only China were to follow South Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines, Thailand and, one hopes, Indonesia, then I would raise my glass with confidence and propose a toast to the coming Chinese century.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Hal Siegel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILLENNIUM (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); TRENDS (73%); WRITERS (72%); CRIME RATES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BURUMA, IAN JOHN MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' CRICHTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999



714 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The euro slipped after Ernst Welteke, president of the Bundesbank, suggested the European Central Bank would not raise interest rates soon. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0047, down from $1.0063.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

PERSON: WELTEKE, ERNST ERNST WELTEKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



715 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Yarmouth Journal;
Indian Affairs Heat Up (Witness the Lobster War)

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: YARMOUTH, Nova Scotia

 BODY:
For Ashton Spinney, who has fished the Bay of Fundy since the early 1960's, the conflict this fall with Mi'kmaq Indians over the lobster catch was "the only time in my lifetime we were at the brink of civil war in my community." At stake is Atlantic Canada's most valuable fish harvest.
In the "Lobster War," the obscenity-laced confrontations on the town wharf here had relatively mild consequences: only one Indian boat sunk and several dozen lobster pots sabotaged. 
 But up north, in Burnt Church, New Brunswick, 2,000 Mi'kmaq lobster pots were vandalized, a prayer tower was burned to the ground, and three Indians were hospitalized after whites rammed their pickup truck. Whites also vandalized three plants that were processing lobster for native fishermen. Indians apparently retaliated by burning an empty house and two pickup trucks owned by whites.
The dispute was set off by a Canadian Supreme Court ruling in September that interpreted a 1760 British treaty to allow the Mi'kmaq tribes of Atlantic Canada to fish for profit year round without license or limit. The turmoil that ensued so startled the court that in November it issued a rare clarification, reimposing federal seasons and licenses on native fishing.
But with Mi'kmaq fishermen vowing to fish out of season this summer, people in this village of white-painted cottages fear that they are only living through an uneasy truce.
This fall's violence may be a harbinger of an increasingly common clash. On one side, Indian tribes, who are growing more assertive, are winning support from urban judges. On the other side, rural non-Indian Canadians are watching familiar geography change hands before their eyes.
The federal government is now reviewing about 280 new Indian land claims and is negotiating 210. By one government estimate, settlement of Indian land claims could cost $140 billion over coming decades. When the process is over, Indian control over land in Canada's 10 provinces may rise from 0.3 percent today to as as much as 10 percent. By comparison, Indians control about 2 percent of the United States.
A judge in Saskatchewan recently awarded the Lac La Ronge tribe a reserve of 1,216 square miles, the largest Indian land settlement in the history of that prairie province. Under an 1876 treaty, the federal government was to set aside 128 acres for each tribe member, 484 people at the time. But with the tribal population now nearing 7,000, it could cost taxpayers as much as $200 million to buy needed land from neighboring white farmers and ranchers.
On Canada's Pacific Coast, in British Columbia, a treaty was drawn up giving the 5,000-member Nisga'a tribe its traditional homeland, 770 square miles, and committing the federal and provincial governments to pay the Nisga'a $380 million, transition costs that fiscally conservative critics call excessive. The province's House of Commons voted to approve the treaty on Dec. 15 after a 42-hour filibuster, the longest in Canadian history.
Noting that overlapping claims by British Columbia's 197 tribes now exceed the size of the province, Diane Francis, a columnist for the newspaper The National Post, attacked the treaty as "a hideous giveaway," adding that many tribes "already get excessive and unjustifiable special entitlements."
In Nova Scotia, Mi'kmaq claims have clouded the opening this winter of the largest economic project in the province's history, a $2.7 billion natural gas development that is to ship 460 million cubic feet of gas a day to New England. But around Canada the sharpest white-Indian clash this year was the Lobster War.
 Here on the tip of Nova Scotia that faces Maine, the 963 holders of lobster licenses pulled around $120 million worth of lobsters from the ocean floor during last year's six-month season, which started at the end of November. The catch has become so lucrative that lobster licenses have jumped in value over the last 30 years from 25 cents to $250,000.
With young men mortgaging their parents' houses to buy licenses, lobstermen felt deeply threatened this fall when the Supreme Court threw open the fishery to all registered Mi'kmaq, a tribe that numbers about 12,000 in Nova Scotia.
"They felt their whole livelihood was at stake," said Tim J. Surette, the regional federal fisheries officer here. Recalling the sight of 600 lobster boats massing in the harbor here, he added, "It was a very dangerous situation."
On the other side of the racial fence, Mi'kmaq elders remember that many white lobstermen got into the business in the 1970's when the provincial government gave them loans for boats. The province did not extend these start-up loans to Indians, saying that they were a federal responsibility.
In addition, Mi'kmaq grew up believing that all fishing resources here are traditionally theirs. Frank Meuse, a chief here, said, "It is a resource that belongs to every Mi'kmaq man, woman and child."
Mike Pictou, one of a handful of Mi'kmaq fishermen to be granted a lobster license recently, agreed, saying: "The resource belongs to us. We shared it for all these years, but somewhere along the line, 'share' became 'take.' "
A lifelong fisherman who openly admits that he fished on the "so-called black market" for years, Mr. Pictou believes that tensions will jump again this summer, when he intends to fish outside a season he says does not apply to Mi'kmaq.
Two months ago, his cousin, James Pictou, sailed to Grand Bank, Newfoundland, to fish crabs out of season. On the night of Oct. 26, four white vigilantes invaded the house where he was staying, took his clothes and other belongings into the street, and burned them.
Recounting the story, Mike Pictou, concluded laconically, "I guess they didn't want him up there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lobsters are Atlantic Canada's most valuable fish harvest and they are dividing members of the Mi'kmaq Indian tribe and white fishermen. At Yarmouth, David Pictou, a Mi'kmaq, worked aboard a lobster boat. Ashton Spinney, right, said he saw the town come to "the brink of civil war." (Photographs by Ully P. Bleil for The New York Times)
 
Map of Canada highlighting Yarmouth, Nova Scotia: Yarmouth in Nova Scotia is at the center of Canada's so-called Lobster War, but advances by Indians have set off other disputes in Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (50%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NOVA SCOTIA (CANADA); CANADA; YARMOUTH (NOVA SCOTIA); CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; LOBSTERS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MI'KMAG INDIANS NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CRUSTACEANS (77%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (77%); VANDALISM (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); SHELLFISH FISHING (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (72%); JUDGES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



716 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: The $1.2 Trillion Spigot;
Capital Spending in U.S. Just Keeps On Keeping On

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Exodus Communications Inc., born of the Internet, lost money this year. And last year. And the year before. But it is spending hundreds of millions of dollars anyway on new high-technology centers to house and operate the Web sites of hundreds of clients.
Forget about the Year 2000 date switch. Companies like Exodus -- young, profitless, but gambling on a golden future -- help to explain why capital spending has not faltered despite all the fears among experts that business investment would slow in the fourth quarter as corporate America braced for the millennium. 
 The investment slowdown has not happened and is not likely to happen early next year either, even after all the spending to fix the Year 2000 computer problem slows to a crawl. Quite the contrary: The capital spending boom that has lasted for much of the decade appears to have plenty of steam to continue well into the new year, sustaining in the process the nation's robust economic growth of roughly 4 percent a year since 1995.
"If you are a corporate executive, and the economy is strong and labor is scarce and financing is inexpensive, as it is today, what do you do?" asked David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI forecasting unit. "You buy new equipment, or more equipment, and increase output that way and cut production costs in the bargain."
Strong consumer demand, new technology and relatively low interest rates, which reduce the cost of new investment, have all contributed to the investment boom. So has the frequent replacement of office computers with faster and more powerful ones. High on the list of contributing factors is the constant retooling to make new products. Consumers are increasingly willing to pay more for new models or new twists on existing models, and these changes are made more frequently now than in the past.
That is the case at the DaimlerChrysler Group, where model changes now come every five years instead of every six to eight years, and $8 billion in capital spending in 1999 is expected to rise to $9 billion in 2000 in the United States. "Almost all of this is direct spending to develop and make new models," said Wynn Van Bussman, chief corporate economist at DaimlerChrysler. "Computer spending for Y2K is lost in the rounding off of these billions."
Capital spending represents the total cost of all the new factories and office buildings, machinery, software, computers and other equipment that companies acquire to produce their goods and services in this country or to expand and modernize their operations here. Such spending in the third quarter, the Commerce Department reported last week, came to $1.2 trillion at an annual rate, or 12.7 percent of the value of the national economy.
That is the highest percentage since the early 1980's, a decade in which businesses around the country revamped operations to meet the challenge of formidable Japanese and European competitors.
In contrast to the 1980's, very little of the $1.2 trillion is being spent on new factories, office buildings and other structures. Most of the investment, $910 billion, has gone for machinery and equipment, particularly computers and software. In the late 1990's, spending in these high-technology sectors has risen faster than any other aspect of capital spending, reaching an annual rate of $247 billion in the third quarter. The rise reflects substantial real gains, but it also flows, in part, from a peculiar way of pricing computers in the official statistics.
If a computer cost $2,000 in 1998 and a more powerful version in 1999 still sells for $2,000, the Commerce Department assigns a value to the extra power, say $500. The computer then enters the government's investment account at $2,500. That sort of bookkeeping, a rough guess that may overestimate the genuine advances in computing, has fattened capital spending in an age of frequent breakthroughs in technology.
The investment boom is easier to see and touch in other industries. Aircraft orders, for example, have more than doubled since 1996 as airline passenger traffic has risen. Electric power shortages that first appeared in the Midwest and Southeast three summers ago have set off a rapid expansion of generating plants fueled by natural gas. The demand for more gas, in turn, has raised investment in that industry.
"The price spikes that accompanied the electricity outages were a signal to step up investment," said Lawrence Makovich, director of electric power research at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Power companies have increased their investment to $8 billion a year in the United States from $2 billion in 1997. Further, during the last 18 months the industry has announced projects, Mr. Makovich said, that should eventually increase the generation of electricity in this country by more than a quarter.
New technology is a big source of capital spending. The Internet is an eye-catching industry in mid-construction, giving rise to hundreds of start-ups like Exodus, which operates computer networks for companies with Web sites. On Wall Street, investment firms like Merrill Lynch are spending hundreds of millions of dollars for Internet links and online trading. And big telephone and cable companies are rewiring American homes, hoping to provide each with a single new connection that will carry not only voice communication but also cable television, e-mail and high-speed Internet traffic.
"What is driving us is the exploding technology, not the strong economy," Eileen Connolly, a spokeswoman for AT&T, said, though she acknowledged that the two can be hard to separate.
Optimistic investors are also a prod to capital spending. Their enthusiasm finances the expansion plans of companies like Exodus, whose stock price has soared 985 percent this year.
"People are convinced," said Kenneth J. Matheny, a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisors Inc., "that Internet-based methods of distributing information and products will turn out to be much more profitable than traditional methods."
Exodus, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., with 700 employees, operates at 15 locations around the United States and one in London. The buildings resemble large warehouses from the outside. Inside are the computers, servers and communications gear that store and manipulate Web sites and make them appear on computer screens around the world at the click of a mouse.
Each location cost Exodus about $50 million, and from the start of this year to the end of 2000, the company expects to spend more than $750 million -- most of it next year -- on 15 more locations, the majority to be erected in this country.
That is quite a feat for a company with only about $200 million in revenue this year from 1,700 customers. Making the feat possible are the rising stock market and the optimism of investors who gamble that Exodus will emerge from intense competition as a dominant player and thus a cash cow in a key industry in the new information economy.
"We are well positioned in a market where the demand is outstripping the supply," said Adam Wegner, vice president and general counsel. He says that without the heavy spending on expansion, Exodus would be profitable today. But he also points to a Catch-22: Without the expansion, competitors would push Exodus out of the business of managing Web sites. "The whole name of the game is to expand to supply the growing demand," Mr. Wegner said.
That takes money. Exodus went public in March last year, raising $70 million with an initial public offering at $15 a share. Since then, the stock has split two-for-one three times, and its shares closed yesterday at $86.625 in Nasdaq trading. With that strong performance as backdrop, Exodus has raised $1.52 billion on the bond market, through four high-yield offerings. These are the securities that in the 1980's were called junk bonds, a term now out of fashion even though the high risk is the same.
The last and biggest offering, $1 billion, took place this month, and Exodus now faces $100 million a year in interest payments. That represents a huge chunk of its annual revenue but is a burden made lighter through its soaring stock price.
The expectation that share prices will keep rising has become "a big component of capital investment," said Robert Pollin, an economist at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
A rising stock market also encourages capital spending among companies that do not need to raise money from the markets. That is because a rising market makes an investment in new equipment automatically worth more as a company's share price rises, effectively raising the resale value of the new equipment.
But if capital investment is rising in many industries, it is notably absent in others. Some oil companies are just beginning to respond to higher petroleum prices, announcing that if prices hold up they will increase spending on exploration and drilling. Excess production capacity inhibits the steel industry and paper and pulp companies, which have shut down older mills. Phelps Dodge, the big copper producer, is holding back, too, even though the demand for copper is strong.
"All the interest that people have in quality of life drives copper demand," said Thomas Foster, vice president and controller at Phelps Dodge. "Telephones in every room, pop the trunk with a button rather than a key -- all these things use copper. But the market can't handle more investment now."
Even a high-technology company like Motorola is cautious, preferring to outsource its production to manufacturers in Taiwan, Singapore and Thailand. "We don't have to pump the capital into expansion," said Scott Stevens, a spokesman for Motorola's semiconductor business, "but we are locking in the available capacity that we need and faster than if we went and built it with our own bricks and mortar."
That is certainly not the mood, however, among the thousands of companies, many of them newly incorporated, that are opening Web sites. iVillage is in this herd, creating an Internet site that offers all sorts of information and shopping leads, of interest mainly to women.
"We are spending between $5 and $8 million a year on capital investment, primarily for computers, servers and communications gear," said Craig Monaghan, chief financial officer at iVillage, which is four years old and has 400 employees.
Even a stock market correction might not inhibit iVillage, although the profitless company pays for capital spending by raising money through share offerings, the most recent last summer.
If its stock price fell sharply, would iVillage cut back on investment? Not right away, Mr. Monaghan said. "We have sufficient cash on hand so that we can fund our operations for a while."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two views, above and left, of digital Internet servers at an Exodus Communications data center. In contrast to the 1980's, most capital investment now goes for equipment like this. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

Graphs: "Businesses are investing more in new technology . . ."
Percentage of businessc investment spent on information technology since 1989.
 
". . . pushing overall business investment to higher levels . . . "
Total business investment, including all structures and machinery since 1989.
 
". . . and accounting for a greater share of the economy"
Total business investment as a percentage of total gross domestic product since 1989
 
*First nine months at annual rate
(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CW (LSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; EXODUS COMMUNICATIONS INC CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; EXODUS COMMUNICATIONS INC US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); CORPORATIONS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); NEW CAR MODELS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



717 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Board Reports Rise in Index Of Indicators

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators rose last month as stock prices and consumer demand climbed, the Conference Board reported yesterday, indicating that the economic expansion will continue after setting a record in February.
The index grew three-tenths of 1 percent last month, the second consecutive monthly gain and higher than the rise of two-tenths of 1 percent that analysts had expected. The increase comes after a gain of one-tenth of 1 percent in October, which had initially been reported as unchanged, and two previous months of stagnant readings. 
 The rising index "points to sustained economic growth in 2000," said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Banc of America Securities in New York. While Federal Reserve policy makers will probably raise interest rates further to cool demand, he said, "the momentum heading into the new year remains very significant."
The November increase in the index, a composite of 10 indicators, was the largest since a matching three-tenths of 1 percent gain in July. The index fell in August and stalled in September because of disruptions from a severe hurricane season that included Hurricane Floyd, which closed factories and other businesses along the East Coast.
A jump in stock prices and factory orders for consumer goods accounted for almost all of last month's rise. Higher consumer confidence, expansion of the money supply, an increase in building permits and low numbers of initial claims for state unemployment benefits also contributed.
A shorter factory workweek and a narrower spread between current and future interest rates subtracted from the index, as did a drop in orders for nonmilitary capital goods and a faster rate of vendor deliveries -- a sign of weak demand.
The economic expansion is poised in February to become the longest ever at 107 months -- just short of nine years. It shows no signs of ending "without more evidence of some underlying weakness in economic fundamentals," said Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist.
Enthusiastic consumers are behind the expansion. Consumer confidence rose in December to its second-highest level ever, according to Conference Board statistics released on Tuesday. As in yesterday's report, gains in the stock market bolstered optimism.
Demand for goods led manufacturers to raise output a half-percent in November, the 12th consecutive monthly gain, Federal Reserve figures show. Growth abroad also is fueling demand.
The rebound in United States manufacturing as Asian and other economies began to recover from the slowdown that began in 1997 is one reason the economy probably expanded at a 4.7 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the average in a recent survey of 24 economists. That would put growth for all of 1999 at 4 percent, the third consecutive year of expansion at that rate or higher. The last time that happened was 1976 to 1978.
The November index suggests "there has been no fundamental change in the underlying conditions of the economy over the second half of 1999," Mr. Goldstein said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"
Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from October to November.
 
Average workweek of production workers in manufacturing: -0.03
Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*: +0.01
New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation: +0.12
Vendor performance (comp. receiving slower deliveries from suppliers): -0.02
New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflation: -0.03
New building permits issued: +0.01
Index of stock prices: +0.13
Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation: +0.08
Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury bonds and Federal funds: -0.06
Index of consumer expectations: +0.04
 
*Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement.
(Source: The Conference Board)
 
Graph: "Leading Indicators"
The graph shows the index of 10 indicators designed to lead or predict overall economic activity since June 1998; 1992 = 100.
(Source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); WEATHER (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: KEN GOLDSTEIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



718 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
German Stock-Sale Plan Stirs Only Limited Opposition

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Dec. 29

 BODY:
At first, it seemed unlikely, perhaps even a little preposterous: a tax break that would allow Germany's banking and industrial conglomerates to untangle more than $100 billion worth of cross-shareholdings.
It did not enhance the idea's credibility that it came from a left-of-center government with sometimes frosty relations with business. Or that the government buried it as a footnote in a much larger tax plan, two days before Christmas. 
 Yet now, nearly a week after the proposal was circulated, it appears to have a serious chance of becoming law. If it does, Germany's corporate landscape may never be the same.
"It would pull the carpet out from under Germany Inc.," said Thomas Mayer, senior economist here for Goldman, Sachs. "I think it has a pretty good chance of getting through Parliament."
Under the plan, companies will be allowed to sell their holdings in other companies without paying taxes -- now 50 percent -- on the profits.
If approved, it would eliminate a huge obstacle that has thus far made it prohibitively expensive for financial institutions like Deutsche Bank and the big insurer Allianz A.G. to streamline and reduce their vast portfolios of stock in other German companies.
Analysts say it would free up tens of billions of marks that have been blocked from reinvestment because of tax liability. It could also be expected to accelerate the pace of mergers and acquisitions. German banks and insurers would have new resources for such deals, but would themselves become more vulnerable to hostile takeovers as well.
Yet even though the plan would provide an enormous tax break for big business, it has not yet generated much political opposition. Left-leaning leaders within the governing Social Democratic Party have praised the idea as a way to spur flexibility and new growth in German industry.
Such a change would spur "more growth and employment by creating more efficient corporate structures," said Joachim Poss and Jorg Otto Spiller, two leading Social Democratic members of Parliament, in a joint statement on Tuesday. The move, they added, "lies within the logic" of current tax principles.
Leaders in the Green Party, the junior member in Germany's ruling coalition, were more emphatic in their support. "This gives the economy the push that it needs," said Klaus Muller, a Green member of Parliament who speaks for the party on economic issues. "I am presuming that the governing coalition will stand by it."
The main rumblings of discontent have come from the center-right opposition parties, the Christian Democratic Union and its Bavarian affiliate, the Christian Social Union, which are normally advocates of tax relief and other pro-business policies. But most economists doubt that those parties would block the measure, because doing so would enrage important supporters.
Though German stocks have leveled off after rising 4.46 percent last Thursday, some investors appear euphoric. Indeed, people close to the Finance Ministry say that the government delayed disclosure of its proposal to derail opposition from the Social Democratic Party's left wing.
Social Democrats in Parliament were told nothing about the plan until the stock market began to soar on Thursday. The market's reaction -- sending the benchmark DAX stock index to a record high and lifting some financial issues by more than 15 percent -- made it difficult for opponents to speak out against the idea.
"For the German markets, the German system, this can only be seen as positive news," said Ulrich Ramm, chief economist at Commerzbank, the country's fourth largest. Commerzbank, which has a stock portfolio of less than $2 billion, would be only mildly affected by the change. But the changes at other institutions would be potentially much greater. Deutsche Bank's stock portfolio is worth about $22 billion, and its holdings include major stakes in DaimlerChrysler A.G., the bankrupt construction company Philipp Holzmann, Allianz and a number of retailers.
If German financial institutions begin to sell their cross-holdings, they could become more exposed to takeover attempts. Thus far, the big banks have remained aloof from the kind of merger activity that has occurred in France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands.
Still, Allianz holds 21.6 percent of Dresdner Bank, the country's third largest, and Dresdner in turn owns 10 percent of Allianz. Munich Reinsurance and Allianz each own 25 percent of each other, and both insurers have stakes in scores of industrial companies.
The issue goes beyond banks and insurers. Big utility companies like Veba and manufacturers like Siemens hold shares in far-flung companies, and in the midst of a large-scale shuffling of ownership this would almost certainly increase.
These networks of interlocking holdings have been at the center of postwar corporate Germany, in which banks, insurers and industrial companies supported each other through good times and bad. But the old ties have become too restrictive, dragging down profits at big financial institutions by making it difficult to move money from weak investments to more promising ones.
Political leaders have recognized the problem for years. But the idea of giving big banks and insurers a tax windfall worth billions had been dismissed as unacceptable.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has apparently decided to take on the problem circuitously. He could afford to bury the plan because it does not affect his government's budget. The tax liabilities for big banks are so high that they were not about to sell their holdings, and the government could not include potential revenue in its budget planning.
Mr. Mayer of Goldman, Sachs is increasingly convinced that the plan will get through Parliament, maintaining that the political left has been pre-empted by the reaction from investors and that opposition from the right would infuriate its business supporters.
The proposal has angered the owners of small and medium-size companies -- the "mittelstand" -- which form much of the backbone of German business. Small-business owners complain that the proposal does not help unincorporated companies.
But government officials respond that such companies are free to incorporate and avoid taxes on capital gains if they choose to do so.
"If that stands up," Mr. Mayer said, "the most severe criticism of the proposal will have been deflated."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Biggest Cut"
Germany's corporate captial gains tax rate is higher than in other industrialized countries.
 
EFFECTIVE TAX RATES AS OF JAN. 1, 2000
Germany: 42%
Japan: 41%
United States: 35%
France*: 33%
Britain: 30%
 
*Excludes some surtaxes.
(Source: Ernst & Young)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); ALV (FRA) (84%); ALV (BIT) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ALLIANZ SE (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (98%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); MERGERS (72%); INSURANCE (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); BONDS (66%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L THOMAS R MAYER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



719 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: The Boy, 6, From Cuba: So Missed

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: CARDENAS, Cuba, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Elian Gonzalez is everywhere and nowhere on the streets of his hometown. As if summoning a phantom, his neighbors point to the narrow sidewalks where he used to scamper about with his friends or to the rooftop where they often saw him flying his kite. They cling to his memory almost as dearly as Elian himself held on to the inner tube he was strapped to when a boat carrying him, his mother and several other Cubans capsized as they tried to flee to Florida last month.
"I never had children, I am too old," said Diria Rosa Ojeda, 60, a neighbor. "But the child I never had, I see in him." 
 For more than a month, the 6-year-old boy has been at the center of an international tug of war and hearts that has roiled Cubans on both sides of the Florida Straits as they await the decision of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is to hold a hearing on the case on Jan. 21.
Since his mother and most of the other would-be refugees died on the journey, Elian was taken in by his father's relatives in Miami, who want him to stay with them for a chance at a better life. But his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, and both sets of grandparents are very much alive here in Cardenas and want the child returned, a demand that has been echoed by thousands of Cubans in rallies throughout the island organized by the government.
As with other issues and people caught in the limbo of United States and Cuban relations, the case has been enmeshed in exile intrigue and international policy. Like the homages to Che Guevara and President Fidel Castro, a snapshot of Elian, his hand touching his chin in a pensive moment, has become an icon here, put on T-shirts, billboards and posters. In Cardenas, where the houses are as worn and weary as the people inside, his neighbors hold a vigil that is more personal than political.
"The people have no lives here," said Giralda Diaz, 70, a neighbor who stood in a friend's doorway across the street from Mr. Gonzalez's house. "We do not work. We spend the day waiting for a car to stop in front. People are sad. If you had a child, you would feel it in your spirit. It is not humane."
Elian's parents had divorced, but neighbors said the parting was amicable.
They said the boy lacked for nothing because the parents, whom they described as devoted to him, held tourism jobs, which gave them access to dollars and, more important, life's elusive daily necessities.
More often than not, the neighbors saw Elian at his father's house, spending the night when his mother had to work late or awaken early because of her maid's job at a hotel in the nearby resort town of Varadero. The father would often take him to a restaurant and resort complex where he worked, or treat him to outings and toys.
"He was obsessed with that child," said Isabel Alarcon. "Everything he wanted, he got."
So it was all the more shocking when they learned that Elian's mother had spirited him away when she left Cuba. The neighbors can only believe that she had fallen under the sway of her new husband, who organized the failed escape. Among themselves, they talk about how the mother must have known that the boat was not seaworthy.
"I do not know how that woman was crazy enough to follow that man," said Elsa Diaz Vidal. "She took the boy because of him. She had no one over there to go to. Then she died in that horrible sea."
As the oldest residents on the block, Hilario Sanchez Menendez, 88, and his wife, Ramona, 80, feel a special kinship with the Gonzalez clan, remembering when they used to cradle Juan Miguel in their arms. On days when they did not pass by for a chat or a cup of coffee, Juan Miguel would pass by their home to make sure everything was all right. Mr. Sanchez Menendez said that his mood brightened recently when he was at the Gonzalez home when Elian called.
"When are you coming here?" he asked Elian." 'I will be there in a few days when my vacation is over,' " he said the boy replied. "Then he started crying."
Tears are shed inside Mr. Gonzalez's home, too. The neighbors said they often saw him sitting depressed in his living room, where pictures of Elian outnumber those of Mr. Castro and Che. In the last few days, they have not seen him in the neighborhood. The man they described as a hard worker for his son had become barely able to summon the strength to go to work.
"When I moved here, he was born," Ms. Ojeda said of Mr. Gonzalez. "Now he is an old man because of this. He is in a lot of pain. He is suffering. His co-workers come by and say, 'Let's go to the hotel.' He feels bad, because the hotel is by the sea. He sees that and is traumatized again."
The neighbors say they cannot understand why Elian's relatives in Miami are so intent on keeping the boy, and they dismiss any suggestion that he could have a better life there. At home, they said, despite the country's economic hardships, he had free schooling and health care and the chance to be with the people he has known all his life.
"What better opportunity does he have being raised among strangers?" Ms. Alarcon said. "How many other children from other countries have to go back? Why not Elian? Because he is Cuban? Be we poor or rich, whatever we are, we have the right to have our child next to us."
So, too, do his grandparents on both sides. It was not that long ago that the grandparents or the father would pick up Elian at the Marcelo Salado Primary School, where his desk now sits empty as his classmates await his return. It is a homecoming, Cuban officials have promised, that would be without any fanfare or public celebrations.
"That would only affect him even more," said Maribel Casas Reyes, the school's director. "We are struggling to have him in a happy situation, not to bruise his emotions more. If we did that, it would be worse than what he experienced in the United States."
The students, in T-shirts that proclaim "We Will Save Elian," sing songs and recite poems for him each day, while others have drawn pictures that are on exhibit at the town's museum, along with photographs of Elian in Miami under the heading "The Child They Kidnapped."
In one classroom, a banner declaring "Happy Birthday Elian" still hangs, a reminder of the day this month when Mr. Castro himself visited the school. To commemorate the occasion, he signed a guest book with the inscription, "For Elian's Liberty, Motherland or Death."
The slogan has been a familiar refrain at the many rallies held in recent weeks. At one at the University of Havana, students recited poetry and read essays about how Elian should return to the island where he has his family, his flag and his comandante, and how the only things he would learn about in the United States were drugs and violence.
Many praised Mr. Castro while denouncing American imperialism as well as the gifts and attention bestowed on the boy by Miami's exile community.
The events calling for Elian's return have begun to annoy some Cubans, who agree that the boy needs to be with his father but have nonetheless tired of turning on their radios or televisions only to encounter yet another rally with revolutionary songs or demonic caricatures of exile politicians.
Recent rallies have been smaller than the earlier ones that brought the city -- and workplaces -- to a standstill. The feeling in some quarters has been that the government seized on the public's sympathy with the custody issue to bolster political enthusiasm at home.
"People are fed up with this," said one Havana resident who declined to give her name. "I think there has to be something deeper politically."
And the strong words uttered by the youngest demonstrators have led some critics to accuse the Cuban government of politicizing the case just as much as the exile community has.
"What would happen if a child stood outside and shouted 'Down with Fidel'?" said another Havana resident. "They would detain his family because someone taught him that. Here, they put 5- and 6-year-old children at rallies making political statements about North American policy. They say that Miami is playing with the child? Here they are playing with him too."
Beyond the talk of toys and politics remains a motherless child with a father who wants him back. On his street in Cardenas, it is a constant refrain. No plaything or great-uncle in Miami, they said, could ever replace his father.
"All you need is a little humanity," said Maria Alian Scott, a teenage neighbor. "To see how that father suffers for his son while he is not returned to him. And that boy has had the trauma of seeing his mother die in front of him. What better psychiatrist than his father? What better hospital than his home?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maribel Casas Reyes, left, the director of Elian's school in Cardenas, says he would be welcomed back without fanfare from Miami, where relatives want to keep him, so as "not to bruise his emotions more." Three neighbors of Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, discuss the boy's case, expressing the hope for his speedy return. From left, Diria Rosa Ojeda, Giralda Diaz and Ramona Sarget Perez. "People are sad," Ms. Diaz said. "If you had a child, you would feel it in your spirit. It is not humane." (Photographs by David Gonzalez/The New York Times)
 
Map of Cuba highlighting Cardenas: The people of Cardenas cling to the memory of Elian Gonzalez.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL FIDEL CASTRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



720 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Little-Known Provision in U.A.W. Contract Gives Election Day Holiday

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Election Day will be a paid holiday for 400,000 unionized auto workers under a contract clause that union leaders hope will increase labor's influence and that Republicans call a corporate sellout.
Republican leaders fear that more union workers, who tend to vote Democratic, will go to the polls and that activists from the United Auto Workers union will use their day off to urge nonunion Democrats to vote. Republicans are particularly concerned because the bulk of the workers are in Michigan and Ohio, two big states that have played pivotal roles in recent presidential elections. 
 Republican Party officials are angered at their traditional corporate allies at General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler, the companies that agreed to the contracts.
"That will be the biggest corporate contribution in American political history," Gov. John Engler of Michigan said in an interview, "because the corporations will be paying the wages and the U.A.W. will be using the manpower to attempt to defeat Republican candidates."
The combined daily payroll of G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler for the auto workers is about $100 million.
Stephen P. Yokich, the union's president, said that the union's goal was not to elect more Democrats, but rather to elect more candidates who advocated issues important to workers. By increasing labor's importance on Election Day, the union hopes to give candidates an incentive to take stances more sympathetic to the unions, he said in an interview.
"It isn't the party that matters, it matters what they do for us and where they stand on issues," Mr. Yokich said, adding that, "If I were a candidate, I'd be talking not about free trade but about fair trade."
The auto workers union was a leader of peaceful protests at the recent World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle and outspokenly opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement. Tens of thousands of auto parts manufacturing jobs have gone to Mexico and other low-wage countries even while assembly plants have tended to stay here.
Union members will be asked to go to the polls on Election Day, and not just treat it as an extra day of vacation, Mr. Yokich said, adding, "It's not a holiday; it's a day to show you're a good American citizen."
Mr. Engler predicted that candidates would address some of the union's concerns, although he said Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, whom he has endorsed for the Republican presidential nomination, continued to support free trade in general.
"There are a lot of openings for Bush to speak to some of the issues the U.A.W. is talking about, and be pro-fair trade as well as free trade," he said.
Mr. Engler said he doubted that the automakers had thought carefully about the political implications of their Election Day concession, including the risk that Democrats elected with union support to state offices might favor laws that could prove burdensome to employers.
An auto executive, who insisted on anonymity, said the political consequences were not a major concern of the companies in contract negotiations this fall. The automakers, he said, were more concerned about the risk of absenteeism on the Monday before Election Day and preferred to give workers an extra Monday or Friday off, but the union insisted on Election Day. Workers will have only three days off on the Fourth of July weekend rather than four, but most factories are closed that week anyway to retool for new models.
With factories running day and night to meet record demand, the automakers agreed to almost all of the union's demands this year, fearing a strike otherwise.
For two decades, the auto workers union was in a poor position to demand new concessions for the domestic automakers, which were struggling for survival. But that changed this year, as a strong economy produced record sales for the automakers and allowed the union to win many demands, including annual wage increases exceeding the inflation rate by 3 percent.
The auto workers union has consistently supported Democrats for president but has endorsed some Republicans in other elections. Surprisingly little is known about the voting habits of the auto workers, who tend to be lumped in with other union workers in polls.
Mr. Yokich said the union's own polling showed that members were somewhat more likely to vote Democratic than Republican. Yet many of the so-called Reagan Democrats of the 1980's -- Midwestern union members who began voting Republican -- were auto workers.
A 1995 study by the Bureau of National Affairs, a research and publishing group in Washington, found that only 6 percent of the nation's unionized workers had half or all of the day off on Election Day. Lane Windham, a spokeswoman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said it was still rare for workers to get part of the day off on Election Day and even rarer to have the entire day off.
Pollsters and Mr. Engler agreed that the biggest effect from the holiday would lie not in increased voting by union members but in greater political activity by union advocates, who will be able to drive voters to polling booths and staff telephone banks.
"It may give them manpower to get out the vote, not necessarily of union members but in heavily Democratic areas," said Robert M. Teeter, a pollster in Ann Arbor, Mich., who was chairman of President George Bush's 1992 re-election campaign.
"There may be 400,000 who have the day off, but more important is that 5,000 will be able to work all day," added Mr. Teeter, who is not affiliated with a presidential campaign this year.
But Curtis Gans, the director of the nonpartisan Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, said that giving union workers the day off might actually depress their turnout slightly on Election Day, by preventing the union from urging them at their workplaces to vote.
Mr. Engler said that while he had been discussing the union's contract provision with Mr. Bush's campaign strategists, he did not believe that its effects would be limited to the presidential campaign. Giving auto workers the day off will also affect next year's Senate race in Michigan, in which Senator Spencer Abraham, a Republican, faces a tough race for a second term, Mr. Engler said.
Closely matched Senate and governors' races in Missouri, where the auto workers union also has tens of thousands of members, will be influenced by the labor contract provision too, Mr. Engler added.
Buried in the union's inch-thick contracts with each of the automakers, the provision escaped most public notice.
While the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has already endorsed Vice President Al Gore, the auto workers opposed the early choice. Mr. Yokich said the union's executive committee would meet in the first week of February to discuss endorsements and was likely to choose candidates in the Democratic and Republican presidential primaries. No decision has been made on whether to endorse a Reform Party candidate, he added.
G.M. and Ford officials declined to comment on the provision, while DaimlerChrysler is closed this week, and seven officials did not return calls to their homes and offices. The union negotiated its contract first with DaimlerChrysler, including the Election Day provision, and then demanded that G.M. and Ford accept identical terms.
The contracts, which run through September 2003, also call for Election Day in 2002 to be a paid holiday.
G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler are the world's three largest companies in sales.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen P. Yokich, president of the auto workers union. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; OHIO; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; AUTOMOBILES; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); POLITICS (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



721 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
Deciding to Give in Season of Getting

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
At a time of year when parties are on many people's minds, at least one New York couple thought of New York's neediest when they gave a holiday bash.
Vicky and Dominic Picca invited 37 friends and relatives to their Tudor City apartment for a party on Dec. 4, asking each guest to contribute $25. Their "Party with a Purpose" raised $930. 
 Mr. Picca, 33, said he and his wife, who are both lawyers, wanted to make a difference this holiday season.
"We don't have children yet," he said. "My view is the holiday season is a time for children, and you give gifts to children. We decided to give the money we would have been giving in the form of gifts to charity."
As for why the amount of money raised is not divisible by 25, Mr. Picca said some of his guests went above and beyond the call of duty. "A couple of guys have a sense of humor," he said. "And they said, 'Here, here's $26.' "
Ellen Lubell, a spokeswoman for the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, said the $930 could provide eyeglasses for 10 children, or pay for a child to go to camp for a whole summer. It could provide a year's worth of after-school activities for two children, support the society's free dental van for two days or provide two to three children with full dental and medical care for a year.
As of yesterday, 4,178 contributors had sent in donations as large as $30,000 and as small as $5, for a total of $3,428,006.94, only slightly ahead of the total raised at this time last year, even as the stock market and other economic indexes are setting records month after month.
Like the Piccas, Alison Jones of San Francisco donated to the Neediest Cases Fund for the first time this year. "I hope that this begins an annual tradition for me," she wrote with her $100 contribution. "Your organization takes the fear and uncertainty out of giving."
Because The Times pays the fund's administrative costs, every dollar donated goes to help those in need.
While some donors gave for the first time this year, others, like Janice Gorn of Greenwich Village, donate year after year. Ms. Gorn has donated to the fund in honor of her late husband, Staff Sgt. Lion Gorn, every year since his B-17 bomber was shot down in World War II on Nov. 29, 1943.
Other donors also have quite specific reasons for contributing, like Sally and Alan Epstein of Rye, N.Y., who donate each year in honor of the birthday of their daughter Peggy.
This year they sent $143.
The Epsteins wrote: "$42 of the above is for her 42nd birthday; $1.00 is to grow on; $100 is towards inflation to make the contribution somewhat meaningful."
Inflation is a factor for another donor, Alfred Jaffe of Chapel Hill, N.C., who each year sends a gift based on the number of years he and his wife, Mimi, have been married.
"Each year the gift has been $2 for each year of our marriage," he wrote. "(The $2 was the cost of our marriage license in 1939!) And this being our 60th anniversary, I'm springing for 10 bucks for each year she's put up with me."
Like many donors, J. Allan Pryor of Greenwich, Conn., made a contribution in memory of loved ones. He sent in $365 in honor of his parents, Ernestine and Marvin Pryor.
"Even as the economy flourishes," he wrote, "the needs of the less fortunate are very great -- perhaps greater than ever before."

HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded: $3,283,591.30
Recorded yesterday: $144,415.64
 
Total: $3,428,006.94
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND CHILDREN (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CHARITIES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); WORLD WAR II (62%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (60%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON DOMINIC PICCA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



722 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: NASDAQ ENDS DAY ABOVE 4,000 POINTS FOR THEFIRST TIME

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The Nasdaq composite index, on its way to the best year ever for a major American stock index, closed above 4,000 points for the first time yesterday. The milestone came less than two months after the index first topped 3,000, and was based largely on the strength of the technology stocks that have come to dominate the Nasdaq market.
The index rose 69.35 points, or 1.7 percent, to 4,041.46 and is now up 84.3 percent since the end of 1998. Three stocks in the index have gained more than 1,000 percent this year, with Qualcomm, a leading company in mobile phone technology, surging 2,444 percent since the end of 1998. 
 No broad index of American stocks has ever risen as much in one calendar year as the Nasdaq composite has this year. In only eight previous years did any major index rise by even half as much as the Nasdaq has this year, and in all but one of those cases the market was rebounding after prices had fallen the previous year, usually during a recession.
Conditions now are far different, however. The current economic expansion of more than eight years will soon become the longest in American history. The Nasdaq composite gained at least 20 percent in each of the last four years, and the 1998 gain of 39.6 percent was the third biggest in its history.
Computer and Internet-related stocks have been the strongest components of the index for most of 1999, but biotechnology stocks have come on strong in the last two months. Many other stocks, particularly those in the financial and transportation industries, have lagged far behind these technology leaders.
Many of the largest gains have come in stocks with little or no current earnings, but with expectations that they may flourish in the new Internet-based economy. "Certainly there are a lot of stocks in Nasdaq that are overvalued," said Edward Kerschner, the chief investment strategist at Paine Webber, "but companies like Cisco and Microsoft are growing rapidly and deserve high valuations."
The Nasdaq average's gains have come amid the greatest volatility in the history of the Nasdaq stock market, which dates to 1971. "Five years ago you'd see a 1 percent move every two weeks," said George Cohen, a portfolio manager at Cohen, Klingenstein & Marks, referring to the wide swings in price, mostly up, this year. "Now you see a 1 percent move almost every day." That is only a small exaggeration. So far this year, there have been three such days a week, on average.
The old record for a major American index was set by the Dow Jones industrial average in 1915, at a time when the economy was moving from a recession into a boom caused by demand for industrial products from European countries then fighting World War I, which the United States had not yet entered. Barring a collapse this week, the Nasdaq will finish with a gain well in excess of the 73.9 percent recorded by the Dow that year.
The only other years in which a major United States index rose by more than 50 percent were 1933, when the Dow leaped 66.7 percent, and 1991, when the Nasdaq composite rose by 56.9 percent. There were five other years -- 1904, 1908, 1928, 1935 and 1954 -- when one or more indexes rose at least 40 percent.
While other major indexes also set records yesterday, their 1999 gains do not even approach that of the Nasdaq. The Dow industrials are up 25.1 percent in 1999, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks has gained 19.1 percent and the Russell 2,000 index of small stocks has added 17.8 percent. The record set by the Russell was the first one for that index since April 21, 1998. Many small stocks suffered in 1998, and many of them still have not recovered their losses that year.
The latest rally for the Nasdaq composite has been a relatively narrow one, centered on the computer and other technology stocks that have excited investors. The Nasdaq computer index, which now makes up more than half of the value of the entire Nasdaq index, is up 103.8 percent for the year, and 40.0 percent since the composite index hit 3,000 on Nov. 3. The Nasdaq biotechnology index has done even better recently, leaping 51.6 percent since Nov. 3, to raise its annual gain to 103.7 percent. Of the 200 stocks in the index, 32 have more than doubled since Nov. 3.
The Nasdaq 100 index has outperformed the broader Nasdaq composite of nearly 5,000 stocks and is up 38.1 percent since Nov. 3 and 101 percent for 1999. Among the large stocks that make up the Nasdaq 100, six have doubled since the composite index reached 3,000 points, according to calculations by Bloomberg Financial Markets. In addition to Qualcomm, they are CMGI, a company that invests in Internet companies; Yahoo, a pioneering Internet company, and three software makers, i2 Technologies, BroadVision and Intuit.
While the Nasdaq composite's gain for 1999 is on course to be the best year ever for a widely followed broad index of American stocks, some foreign indexes, as well as narrower ones of American stocks, have done even better. An Internet stock index maintained by TheStreet.Com, for example, is up 186 percent this year, and an index of South Korean stocks is up 100 percent.
Among the largest gains for general American indexes -- those more than 40 percent in a calendar year -- all but one before this year had come following years in which stock prices were hurt by poor economic conditions. The exception was the 48.2 percent gain for the Dow industrials in 1928, following a period in which it had shown gains of at least 20 percent in three of the four previous years. In that case, the strong gains continued until the following September, after which the market crashed.
The big gains of 1904, 1908, 1915, 1954 and 1991 came after the index in question had declined during an economic recession the prior year, with the 1914 drop intensified by nervousness over the possibility of war in Europe. The other two years with big gains -- 1933 and 1935 -- came as the stock market was starting to recover from the historic lows reached in 1932, at the depths of the Great Depression.
In 1915, when the Dow rose 73.9 percent, the index had only 12 stocks. In 1916, the index was enlarged to 20 stocks, including many that had been excellent performers. That new enlarged index, would have risen 81.7 percent had it existed in 1915. That figure has sometimes been cited as the best performance ever for a general American index, but is misleading because the index did not contain those stocks at the time. The Dow was enlarged to its current size of 30 stocks in 1928.
The Nasdaq composite index now has 4,832 stocks, and adds new stocks as companies go public. But the index is weighted according to market capitalization, and the 10 largest companies in it account for more than 40 percent of the index.
Of those 10, through yesterday, 6 outperformed the overall index while the index was rising 33.4 percent from its previous milestone on Nov. 3, led by Qualcomm's gain of 153 percent. But the laggards included three of the best-known companies on Nasdaq. Microsoft rose 28.2 percent and Intel was up 5.2 percent. MCI Worldcom was the only one of the 10 to decline over the period, falling 4.4 percent amid concerns about its planned takeover of Sprint.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chicago Mercantile Exchange traders near the session's end yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C5)
 
Chart/Table: "A Performance for the Ages -- THE BEST YEAR FOR ANY INDEX
Best calendar year gains for major indexes (the Dow industrials from 1897; the S.& P. 500 began in 1927; the Nasdaq Composite began in 1971 and the Russell 2000 began in 1978). Most of the best gains came after bad years, making 1999 all the more unusual.

YEAR	INDEX	GAIN	GAIN OR LOSS OF PREVIOUS YEAR	1999	Nasdaq*	+83.7%	+39.6	1915	Dow	+73.9%	-5.1	1933	Dow	+66.7%	-23.1	1991	Nasdaq	+56.9%	-17.8	1928	Dow	+48.2%	+28.8	1908	Dow	+46.6%	-37.7	1954	S.&P. 500	+45.0%	-6.6	1933	S.&P. 500	+44.1%	-14.8	1954	Dow	+44.0%	-3.8	1991	Russell 2,000	+43.7%	-21.5	 Chart/Table: "10 LARGEST NASDAQ STOCKS" Change since the index first topped 3,000 on Nov. 3; the index itself has risen 33.4 percent.

STOCK	CHANGE SINCE NOV. 3	WEIGHT IN INDEX	Microsoft	+28.2%	12.13%	Cisco	+48.4%	6.97%	Intel	+5.2%	5.58%	Oracle	+91.9%	3.12%	MCI Worldcom	-4.4%	3.01%	Dell	+23.4%	2.64%	Sun Microsystems	+46.4%	2.43%	Qualcomm	+153.0%	2.17%	Yahoo	+123.5%	2.12%	Amgen	+57.4%	1.26%	
Graph show the Nasdaq at closing for yesterday. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Dow Jones)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%); COHEN KLINGENSTEIN & MARKS INC (51%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HISTORY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); WORLD WAR I (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



723 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Office Pool, 2000

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Whenever another performer adopted his techniques, Jimmy Durante, mock-furious, would expostulate: "Ev'rybody wants ta get inna de act!"
At millennium's end, we are environed by great piles of pompous prognostication. If you wanna get inna de act, you gotta start off each guess wid a smile. 
 1. Next fall's vice-presidential debates will be dominated by (a) Al Gore's Dianne Feinstein; (b) John McCain's Colin Powell; (c) George W. Bush's Richard Lugar; (d) Bill Bradley's Bill Richardson.
2. The most riveting speech of the year will be (a) Bill Clinton's early valedictory in Davos; (b) Lenora Fulani's fiery concession; (c) Hafez al-Assad's "I have returned" speech atop the Golan Heights.
3. The turning point of the G.O.P. nomination will be (a) the unexpected Bush performance in a one-on-one debate with McCain; (b) the breaching of the Bush fire wall in South Carolina by McCain's brigade of veterans; (c) the Michigan tussle that will affect the mood in all-important California.
4. The most unexpected Wall Street development will be (a) the early pricking of the high-tech bubble; (b) the oil-induced rise in inflation followed by higher interest rates; (c) the raising of margin requirements to discourage speculation.
5. The least-expected campaign issue to emerge will involve (a) voter anger at gambling's "slots for tots"; (b) the return of Quemoy and Matsu; (c) the Mary Jo White House indictments; (d) hanky-panky with Russian oligarchs; (e) the backlash against mega-mergers that help snoops and eavesdroppers.
6. New York's U.S. Senate campaign will be decided by (a) an ill-considered Giuliani outburst; (b) non-prosecutable acts described in damning detail in "The Ray Report"; (c) a Gore-Clinton falling-out that cannot be papered over; (d) invasion of the Brooklyn Museum of Art by the brick-bearing homeless.
7. Oscar winner of the year will be (a) "Eyes Wide Shut"; (b) "American Beauty"; (c) "Toy Story 2"; (d) "The Blair Witch Project"; (e) "The Winslow Boy"; (f) "Sixth Sense."
8. Sleeper best-selling book will be (a) Peggy Noonan's severe look at Hillary Clinton; (b) "I, Che Guevara," heart-stopping fiction by the pseudonymous John Blackthorn; (c) "From Dawn to Decadence," Jacques Barzun's stunning five-century study of civilization's cultural retreat; (d) "Behind Closed Doors," Robert Ellis Smith's expose of privacy invasion.
9. The vaunted Internet will (a) bring the world into loving, beeping communication, or (b) become the vehicle for e-larceny, e-terror and e-anarchy; (c) prove that untaxed commerce is a boon to humankind, or (d) provide the tax revenues to redistribute wealth throughout the world; (e) be replaced by the Outernet, a rigorously policed method of thought control throughout the solar system; (f) be devoured by incensed mall rats rebelling against computer hermitism.
10. Clinton, in legacy mode, will (a) personally take the Cuban boy to Havana and thereby re-establish relations with Castro; (b) after learning of new Iraqi weapons, exercise Article 15 of the ABM treaty notifying Russia of our intent to withdraw in six months, opening the way to a U.S. shield against rogue-nation missiles; (c) promise $10 billion in aid to the Syrians, Israelis and Palestinians to obtain a signing ceremony on the White House lawn as a pre-election "October surprise"; (d) replace Alan Greenspan at the Federal Reserve with Robert Rubin.
11. Before the decade ends, (a) the independent nations of Palestine, Kosovo, East Timor and Chechnya will be in the U.N. General Assembly, warning Quebecers to stay in Canada; (b) the Baltic nations will be welcomed into a NATO concerned about Moscow's adventurism; (c) Wei Jingsheng, today's exiled dissident, will after a painful evolution become China's foreign minister, able to make the deal to bring Taiwan home.
My picks: 1(a), 2(c), 3(b), 4(a), 5(c), 6(b), 7(f), 8(c), 9(c), 10(all), 11(c) (so sue me for optimism).
Can pundits read the future? In a sinister voice on old-time radio, the Shadow would ask, "Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men?" And in his TV spotlight, Jimmy Durante would rasp, "Da Nose knows." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); FORECASTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MILLENNIUM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INFLATION (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); BESTSELLERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INDICTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL RICHARDSON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); AL GORE (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



724 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Politician McCain Shows Political Skills

SERIES: STATE OF THE CAMPAIGN/John McCain

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
In wood-paneled V.F.W. halls and drafty high school gymnasiums, Senator John McCain likes to summon audiences to join a "great crusade" to seize government back from the monied interests. Then in the very next breath he strikes a discordant note of fatalism: he talks about defeat.
"I don't know if I'll win this election," Mr. McCain characteristically told a standing-room-only crowd in Burlington, Vt., on a recent blustery Sunday afternoon. "I can't tell you that I'm going to." 
 As the rapt audience listened, he added the clincher that signals he is someone quite different from all the other combatants for the presidency.
"I'm not afraid of losing," he said, "because I know that I'll act on principle if I'm not afraid of losing."
Such sentiments are hardly unfamiliar for a senator known more on Capitol Hill for his passionate embrace of lost causes than for signature accomplishments. But now these quixotic strains are at the very heart of Mr. McCain's insurgent candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination, marking him as the anti-politician, the man of integrity for whom winning isn't all.
In the aftermath of President Clinton's lies about his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky and the subsequent impeachment, Mr. McCain and his advisers have calculated that voters are longing for a new quality in their president.
"Every presidential election is a reaction against the incumbent's worst flaw," said Dan Schnur, Mr. McCain's communications director. Or as Mr. McCain recently mused about the mood of the voters, "perhaps they want someone who tells it exactly as he sees it."
That is probably as good an explanation as any for what has happened to Mr. McCain in the past five months. Riding a campaign based on his maverick positions and personality and on his gripping biography as a former prisoner of war in North Vietnam, Mr. McCain has outlasted other more prominent Republicans to become the only realistic challenger to George W. Bush.
The senator's unscripted, free-wheeling style of campaigning through town meetings where he gamely invites "questions, comments, insults," has added to his mystique. He has risen steadily in popularity in New Hampshire, piercing Mr. Bush's aura of inevitability and establishing himself as the current front-runner in the nation's first primary state.
And across the campaign, he has managed to turn the tables so thatdespite his 17 years in Congress, he can stand as the outsider against the governor from Texas whose broad support from party leaders has made him the establishment insider.
The question now as the 2000 presidential campaign approaches a fast-moving series of caucuses and primaries is whether Mr. McCain can really compete beyond New Hampshire against Mr. Bush's formidable organization and a money advantage so overwhelming that the governor has chosen not to accept federal matching funds and the spending limits that go with them.
"When I look at those numbers," Mr. McCain jokes mordantly of Mr. Bush's campaign funds, "I'm reminded of the words of Chairman Mao, who says it's always darkest before its totally black."
To husband his limited resources, Mr. McCain made an early and unconventional decision to skip the Iowa caucuses, the first telling vote of the 2000 race, because they would consume too much money. Instead the Arizona senator put most of his effort into New Hampshire, a gamble that appears to have paid off.
To secure the nomination, Mr. McCain hopes to upset Mr. Bush in New Hampshire and then ride a wave of news media exposure to victory in South Carolina on Feb. 19. Three days later come the Arizona and Michigan primaries. Mr. McCain expects to win his home state, and aides see a long-shot chance of winning Michigan as well, despite Gov. John Engler's endorsement of Mr. Bush.
Should Mr. Bush stumble badly and lose all four states, Mr. McCain's advisers argue that the Texan would be seriously, if not fatally, damaged going into the March 7 primary day when a multitude of states vote, including New York and California. "We'll need to win Michigan to finish Bush off, and he needs to win it to survive," said John Weaver, Mr. McCain's political director.
Still New Hampshire has a history of favoring mavericks, and many Republicans predict that Mr. Bush's formidable campaign war chest and 50-state organization would resurrect him should he lose New Hampshire, barring any significant blunder.
"I don't think McCain can beat Bush unless Bush gives him the opportunity to do so," said Eddie Mahe, a Republican strategist unaligned with any presidential campaign. "There's a heavy component of organization in primaries," Mr. Mahe said. "If you don't have the organizational capacity to get people out to vote, you have a tremendous handicap."
Mr. McCain's advisers counter that his fund-raising has improved with his surge in New Hampshire, making it easier to begin organizing in places Mr. McCain would not have hoped to contest just a few months ago. The campaign announced today that it had taken in $6.1 million since the beginning of October and its fund-raising total would soon reach more than $21 million. That figure includes $6.2 million in federal matching money that becomes available after the New Year as well as $2 million transferred from a Senate campaign account.
In previous election years, that kind of money would have been enough to mount a strong primary campaign. But against Mr. Bush's $63 million, Mr. McCain has had to focus narrowly and intensively on a few states. "The $20 million in 6 states can beat $60 million in 50," said Mike Murphy, a strategist to Mr. McCain.
With money growing, the campaign has now expanded its organizing into Virginia, Michigan and Washington. And it went on the air with a third television commercial this week, showcasing Mr. McCain's pledge to protect Social Security.
Analysts say an important challenge for Mr. McCain, as his poll standings bring him new plausibility and more scrutiny, is to move beyond his biography and start to show where he stands on issues like education, tax cutting and the economy.
So far, his campaign has been based almost entirely on his personal story of heroism in Vietnam and on his free-wheeling style with voters and journalists alike. The signature issues on which he is running -- a restored military, a campaign finance overhaul and a crusade against pork-barrel spending -- all seem to relate to his personality and background.
Even the first serious broadsides against Mr. McCain this fall came not over issues but on personality -- the accusation by critics that his hot temper would make him a bad president. In defending himself, Mr. McCain argued that he would need a temper to fight for the public against entrenched special interests in Washington.
The senator has started to deliver a series of policy speeches to flesh out his positions. He has already spoken on military policy, health care and the environment and plans to move on across the next few months to citizenship, tax cuts, Social Security, education and technology.
But in contrast to his ease at town meetings, he is impatient in giving speeches, rushing through them in a sing-song as if they bore him. And once off the topics of the campaign finance law or national security policy, he can seem surprisingly uninterested in detail.
The limits of his bare-bones staffing also start to show. After a recent speech in Charleston, S.C., about health policy, Mr. McCain was unable to answer questions about program costs, saying he had misplaced his fact sheet. His staff gave out one set of numbers then paged reporters at night to say some of the figures were wrong.
Setting out his positions also runs the risk for Mr. McCain of highlighting how conservative he is and possibly diminishing his ability to reach out to conservatives and independents alike in New Hampshire and South Carolina, where the primaries are not restricted only to party members. His tendency is to sound Democratic on issues while putting forward conservative programs.
That can become a difficult balancing act, as Mr. McCain learned the hard way when he talked with editors of The San Francisco Chronicle on abortion last August.
Asked about the Supreme Court's landmark Roe v. Wade decision, he said, "I would love to see a point where it is irrelevant and could be repealed because abortion is no longer necessary." He added that "certainly in the short term or even the long term, I would not support the repeal of Roe v. Wade" because repeal would "force X number of women in America" to undergo "illegal and dangerous operations."
The answer drew a wave of criticism from conservatives, who thought he was backtracking from his anti-abortion record. Now, whenever he is asked about abortion, Mr. McCain immediately points out that he has consistently voted against abortion in his 17 years in Congress and says that he would support repeal of Roe v. Wade. He then goes on to argue that both sides on the polarized abortion issue should try to work together on adoption. But this response often proves unsatisfactory to social moderates in New Hampshire, who are trying to decide whether to vote for him or Bill Bradley.
It is when goring special interests that Mr. McCain becomes most animated and passionate. In fact, he revels in being downright contrarian.
At a recent county Republican dinner in St. Johnsbury, Vt., he happily told his listeners "you have to tell the American people sometimes what they don't want to hear," and talked about how he had spoken out against ethanol subsidies during a debate in Iowa, where the subsidy for corn-based fuel is popular.
As the crowd applauded, he could not resist mentioning provocatively that he also opposed the Northeast Dairy Compact, which the state's Congressional delegation had vigorously fought for to maintain milk prices favorable to Vermont dairy farmers. "I don't support it because I think it raises the price for average citizens," he said, drawing no immediate response from the crowd.
Yet it is precisely this quality that is winning him converts. In a V.F.W. hall in Berlin, N.H., Margaret Hill, 87, bundled in a white ski jacket, suddenly stood up recently and told Mr. McCain in a quavering voice, "It would be so wonderful to get a President of the United States who doesn't say what they think you want to hear."
"Pack up," shot back Mr. McCain. "I'm taking you with me wherever I go."
 
State of the Campaign
This is the fourth in a series of status reports on the campaigns of the top contenders for the Democratic and Republican nominations as they enter the primary season. Next: The Forbes campaign.
 
AT A GLANCE -- The McCain Campaign
 
HEADQUARTERS -- Alexandria, Va.
 
STAFF SIZE -- About 50 full-time staff members.
 
TOP CAMPAIGN STAFF -- The campaign manager is Rick Davis, who was deputy campaign manager for Bob Dole in his 1996 presidential campaign. The political director is John Weaver, who led George Bush's general election presidential campaign in Texas in 1988 and was national field director of Senator Phil Gramm's presidential campaign in 1996. The strategic consultant is Mike Murphy, a political strategist from Virginia who worked for Lamar Alexander and later for Mr. Dole in 1996.
 
FINANCES -- The McCain campaign has $1.5 million cash on hand and says it will qualify for $6.2 million in federal matching funds next year, with $4.1 million of that money becoming available just after the new year.
 
PROMINENT ADVISERS -- Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former chief United States delegate to the United Nations, on foreign policy; Lisa Graham Keegan, superintendent of public instruction at the Arizona Department of Education, on education; Kevin A. Hassett of the American Enterprise Institute on fiscal and tax policy. Advising on politics are Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan who is now a Washington lobbyist and Vin Weber, a former congressman from Minnesota.
 
BEST MOVES SO FAR -- Skipping the Iowa straw poll that drove other candidates from the race; building up credibility as the chief challenger to Gov. George W. Bush; staging a joint appearance with former Senator Bill Bradley, the Democratic presidential candidate, on campaign finance reform.
 
BIGGEST MISTAKE SO FAR -- Courting the wrath of conservatives by giving the appearance in an interview with The San Francisco Chronicle that he was backing away from his anti-abortion record.
 
CHALLENGES AHEAD -- Carrying his campaign beyond New Hampshire; overcoming Mr. Bush's 50-state organization and large lead in campaign funds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain took questions last month from members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars while on a campaign stop in Laconia, N.H. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (78%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (78%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ETHICS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



725 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 5246 words

HEADLINE: Bold Effort Leaves Much Unchanged for the Poor

SERIES: LIFE AFTER WELFARE/Last article of a series.

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE

 BODY:
So, did it work?
Whatever else can be said about Wisconsin's crusade to end welfare -- whether one judges it kind or cruel, whether one thinks it left the safety net stronger or in shreds -- the effort achieved two things. 
 It left far fewer people on welfare. It put more people to work.
Yet here is the dawning surprise: it may end up making less of a difference in the lives of the poor, socially or economically, than much of the public imagined.
Less welfare and more work -- it sounds like an impressive achievement, and surely in some ways it is. After imposing the nation's toughest work requirements, Wisconsin has cut its welfare rolls more than 90 percent, far deeper than expected. At any time, about two-thirds of those once on welfare are clinging to some sort of job, a level of employment that few experts thought could be achieved.
For tens of thousands of Milwaukee families, the story seems -- and on the surface is -- one of profound change. And in arriving first at welfare's end Wisconsin may offer the rest of the country a preview of changes to come.
But after three years of tracking the nation's boldest antiwelfare campaign, what seems most noteworthy about the lives of the poor is not the change at all. It is the long list of things that remain the same: violent neighborhoods, absent fathers, bare cupboards, epidemics of depression, the temptations of drugs.
Those hardships endure not just for the families who are obvious failures, those left with neither welfare nor work. They endure for the seeming successes. They endure for those with jobs.
After dozens of visits and hundreds of interviews inside a welfare revolution -- at public-aid offices early in the morning and in slum-district homes late at night -- the real surprise is how rarely a life seems truly transformed.
Welfare's end left Lashanda Washington at a Taco Bell at midnight, as a shift manager closing the store. But it also left her still quarreling with a violent boyfriend, evicted from her home, and worrying that child-welfare officials may try to take away her son.
Welfare's end left Nicole Keeler at a bus stop at 5:45 a.m. on her way to an assembly line at an electronics factory. But it also left her and her six children with no health insurance, and they still cannot afford to leave the gang-dominated neighborhood where they have lived for seven years.
If welfare's end brought progress for anyone, it did for Michelle Crawford. After two decades on public aid, she has completed a year as a machine operator at a plastics plant, where she earned nearly $16,000 this year -- more than twice the average earnings of former welfare recipients. But she still races to food pantries to feed her three children and blames her long workday for a daughter's new behavior problems at school.
The national conversation about urban poverty has focused so intensely on welfare, it almost defies the imagination to think that welfare could end and the lives of the poor remain the same in so many important ways.
"Work is more than just a weekly paycheck," President Clinton said this spring, in arguing that poor communities were being transformed. "It is, at heart, our way of life. Work lends purpose and dignity to our lives, instills in our children the basic values that built our nation."
But putting people to work was only one of the goals of the 1996 federal law that put an end to the guaranteed welfare checks. The other was to reduce the percentage of children born to unmarried women, a front on which progress has been slight if at all.
In the end, the prospects of poor children may depend more profoundly on whether they have the support of their fathers than whether their mothers move from subsistence welfare checks into subsistence jobs.
Of course, the real test -- of work and family -- rests not in one year, but over a generation. The nation takes it as an article of faith that, if nothing else, the children of working parents will be better off, inspired by their discipline, raised under a new social code.
At Pulaski High School here, the senior class president, Keona Marsh, articulates the ideal: "If you have a working parent, you have a positive image to look up to."
But as visits to poor neighborhoods sometimes show, life is often more complicated. They are filled with examples of hard-working mothers, occasionally fathers, too, whose children succumbed to familiar ills: teenage pregnancy, educational failure, the fast life of the drug trade.
Ms. Marsh was reared by a working single mother who knew little of welfare. But her mother was working so much that Ms. Marsh's older sister got pregnant at 12. Now at 17, Ms. Marsh is pregnant, too, which may end her plan to join the Army after graduation. "It wasn't that I wanted to have a child," she said. "It's just something that happened to me."
Whatever the hurdles at welfare's end, they bring little yearning for welfare's past. In retrospect, the old system seems even more flawed than it did at its abolition -- providing little, demanding little, derided by taxpayers and welfare recipients alike.
Even with low wages, many former recipients share Ms. Keeler's pride in her identity as a worker. "I can say this is Nicole's money, not welfare's money," she said.
And whatever else it has done, the movement from welfare to work has taken the edge off taxpayers' anger at the poor, bringing new investments in support services like child-care and the possibility of public policy breakthroughs to come.
This sense that ending welfare will prove less epochal than it seems -- it is not a firm conclusion. It cannot be proved with charts and graphs. It arises instead as a nagging suspicion, a word of caution, the more one travels in poor neighborhoods behind doors typically kept closed.
It arises with confessions from many women on welfare that they were secretly working all the time. It arises when a woman with a seeming success story confides she is bolstering her income by selling cocaine. It arises when another returns from work to a boyfriend who shoots up the house.
It arises with the growing impression that welfare was just one in a swirl of influences that shaped the lives of the urban poor, a force that meant less to most welfare families than the outside world believed.
If that is the case, ending welfare may mean less, too.
 
The History
Urban Woes Rooted In Rural Past
It does not look like a big-city ghetto, Milwaukee's near north side. The streets are lined with duplexes, once-proud structures built nearly a century ago for factory workers awash in new prosperity. The factories and the prosperity are gone, and so are many of the houses, replaced by vistas of vacant lots.
Sunrise is still two hours away as William Love guides his No. 12 bus up Teutonia Avenue, through the heart of Milwaukee's welfare belt. In more than 25 years as a city bus driver, he has had plenty of opportunities to witness the area's decline. Since the end of welfare, he has also engaged in some high-profile speculation about its revival.
When he learned that Wisconsin was going to require welfare recipients to work for their checks, he was enthusiastic. "I thought, 'If I can get up at 4 in the morning, they can, too,' " he said. In 1998, when a reporter from The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel rode with him, Mr. Love said that he saw more women with children on the early-morning bus and surmised they were former welfare families on their way to work.
The subsequent article portrayed a "startling change," sweeping the central city, and soon it was quoted everywhere by supporters of the tough new laws. In a radio address this spring, President Clinton cited the article, which also quoted two other drivers, as "evidence of our progress."
But by then Mr. Love was having doubts. A central-city bus driver, he is a landlord, too, and like many others he was finding that welfare's end made it harder to collect the rent. "In the past, they had their check, so you pretty much knew you were going to get your money," he said. Now he finds families doubled up, and when the rent is due, "you get these excuses."
This particular morning brings no clear sign of uplift or decline. A passenger heading to work at a food pantry grumbles that ending welfare left "a lot of people in need." A child care center worker acknowledges that the tougher laws pushed her to get a job. "I was getting welfare money, so why should I work -- that's the idea I had at the time," she said. But economically, she said the job has left her "about the same."
Behind the wheel, that, more or less, is Mr. Love's reconsidered opinion. Although he was once a tribune of social progress, he now says, "So far, haven't seen a big difference, one way or another."
If the problems of the inner city do not end with welfare, that is in part because they did not begin with welfare. On Milwaukee's north side, they often began, in a historical sense, 750 miles to the south, in the poverty and subjugation that black families experienced on plantations in the Mississippi Delta. One of the first things one notices in talking to Milwaukee welfare families, 79 percent of whom are black, is how many came from the Delta, the epicenter of sharecropper life. Another is how recent the escaoe has been. For a middle-aged woman on welfare in Milwaukee, the legacy of rural disenfranchisement is not a distant memory. Sometimes it is the story of her own mother's life.
One evening last spring, one such family head -- young, at 62 -- told the story of her own migration from a Mississippi plantation in the late 1950's, to a Chicago housing project, from which her daughter then moved to Milwaukee. It was a story of grinding poverty. She worked the fields and was paid in scrip, redeemable only at the plantation store. It was a story of family disarray. She scarcely knew her father, and she had the first of her eight children at 13.
In other words, it was a story with many of the same problems that came to dominate the urban, welfare-dependent North.
But it was not a story of welfare; for decades, local officials in the South kept most black families from getting welfare. "I didn't know nothing about welfare," she said.
Nearly 100,000 Wisconsin families ultimately came to rely on welfare, formally called Aid to Families with Dependent Children, and the number in Milwaukee peaked at nearly 39,000. Now just 5,800 Milwaukee families are on the successor program, Wisconsin Works or "W-2." But welfare was almost never their only means of support, another factor that helps explain why its demise may change things less than might be expected.
Kathryn Edin, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia has estimated that A.F.D.C. typically provided just 34 percent of the average recipient's monthly income. Another 25 percent came from food stamps, where reductions have been less extreme. The rest came from boyfriends, charities, relatives and jobs, including under-the-table work.
Likewise, checking wage records, John Pawasarat, a researcher at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, found that 30 percent of the city's A.F.D.C. recipients were already working -- half of them in secret, to keep their benefits from being cut.
"There's more people working now, sure," Mr. Pawasarat said. "But the difference is not as large as people think, because a lot of people were already working under the old system."
He estimates that even at its peak, welfare accounted for less than 4 percent of the total income in Milwaukee's central city. "If you can't get that, you can't understand why there hasn't been more of a dramatic change," he said.
For all the political focus on welfare, the problems of the inner city also persist in families where parents are busy at work. Consider the case of Tremayne Franks, a charming if troubled 10-year-old who caught a reporter's attention last spring with his flamboyance on an after-school job at a corner grocery store. At 4-foot-6, he stood on a milk crate to reach the cash register, swore at his customers and awarded himself a fancy title: the "Always, Only, Assistant Boss."
In one light, his family's problems might seem those of a permissive welfare culture. His mother collected welfare checks for years while running with fast men, ignoring her son and giving little thought to a job. When officials took away her check, the boy said she left town to work as a stripper.
Certainly Tremayne's paternal grandmother, Glendora Johnson, who is raising him, blames welfare for rewarding his mother's irresponsible behavior. "They just made a bunch of sorry people, welfare did," Ms. Johnson said.
Yet similar problems have run through her side of the family, though she is the very epitome of a worker. After arriving from Mississippi in the mid-1960's, Ms. Johnson held her family together with a series of factory jobs -- her hard-drinking husband was little help -- and for nearly two decades she has worked the late shift as a hospital housekeeper.
In other words, Ms. Johnson is an embodiment of the working mother the new system hopes to create -- a hard-at-work provider whose disciplined example might save her children from the streets.
It did not: Four of her five children developed problems with drugs, and two wound up behind bars, including the Tremayne's father, Terry Johnson, who served 17 months for selling cocaine. Released last summer, he is back at work as a maintenance man at $8.50 an hour, trying to set an example for his son. A recent visit found him scolding the boy after one of his frequent suspensions from school, this one for selling Pokemon cards.
But as Mr. Johnson knows from his own childhood, a beleaguered parent's earnest example is sometimes no match for the streets.
"My mother showed me what it means to be a citizen in this country -- you got to work, you pay for what you get," he said. "But when you hit that jungle out there, there's all kinds of things you think you want. You got gold people with gold cars. They got money. They got guns. They got posses behind them. I'm just Fred Flintstone going to work."
 
The Program
An Impressive Effort That Can Be a Mess
Welfare may not have been the only problem in the inner city, but it was a problem nonetheless -- disliked in almost equal measure by the taxpayers who financed its modest benefits (A.F.D.C. offered a family of three about $6,200 a year in Wisconsin) and the families who received them.
"The welfare people, they didn't care what you did," said Lashanda Washington, the Taco Bell worker. "They just gave you money to keep you from snapping in their face."
Wisconsin Works, or W-2, is the nation's most ambitious effort to redesign a social safety net. It is far more strict than the system it replaced. Almost everyone who receives assistance is required to work at community service jobs like sweeping schools or answering telephones at nonprofit agencies.
But W-2 can be much more generous, too. Wisconsin raised the standard grant to nearly $8,100 a year. It also poured tens of millions of dollars of state and federal money into new services for workers who left the welfare rolls, most notably for child care, health care and wage subsidies.
Conceptually, it is an impressive effort to demand work and support it. But operationally, it has often been a mess, a tangle of unresponsive bureaucracies, uninspired casework and so much initial chaos and confusion that many needy families still express contempt at the name W-2.
Personalized casework to guide people into jobs was supposed to be a hallmark of W-2. But at the program's start in 1997, one caseworker's idea of job counseling reached the level of farce. He spent an hour reading aloud from an occupation almanac to a roomful of restless women:
"Mathematics -- reading graphs and stuff like that, it gets real deep when it comes to mathematics. Agriculture, that thing with cows, gets real deep -- giving them those hormones. . . . Forestry. Why don't we see any more wolves. Somebody eating them?"
Unwilling to work for a welfare check or endure more pointless classes, the poor voted with their feet. Most simply left. At the end of the transition from A.F.D.C., W-2 had been projected to enroll 54,000 families statewide. Instead, it had 13,000, and in the last 18 months the number has fallen to 7,100.
To the extent that W-2 has worked, it has done so despite itself, by wrapping welfare in so many new obligations that the poor have sought other options.
Where, then, did they go?
The good news is that most went to work on their own, in numbers much higher than expected. The bad news is that the journey from welfare to work is, so far at least, typically a story of running in place.
This month, researchers at the University of Wisconsin quietly released the most extensive study yet of families leaving the state's rolls. Examining the wage records of 16,000 former recipients, they found that 68 percent were working a year after leaving welfare. More than 80 percent had worked at some point in the year.
Hailing the ability of the poor to find jobs, Lawrence Mead, a welfare expert at New York University, argues that such work levels "represent the greatest achievement in antipoverty policy since the Great Society."
Yet for most families the work has failed to translate into economic progress. Among those who went to work in 1998, average annual earnings were just $7,700. That is $400 less than they would have received by staying on welfare. And it is just 59 percent of the $13,100 the government says a family of three needs to escape poverty.
The numbers look better when they include wage subsidies, called earned-income tax credits, which at these levels typically total about $3,000 a year. But those subsidies are partly offset by the reduction in food stamps many families experience when they work.
Adding up wages, subsidies and food stamps, the researchers did a more sophisticated set of calculations and still found limited progress.
After a year in the work force, only 36 percent of the former recipients had more total income than they had on welfare. Only a quarter lifted themselves above the poverty line. Just 4 percent exceeded what might be called a threshold of great change, incomes of above 150 percent of the poverty line -- in other words $19,700 for a mother with two children.
Examining a group of women who began working in 1996, the researchers did find they made modest progress over time, increasing earnings by about $1,200 a year.
Averages obscure the subplots, of course. If here and there some families have made it, about 16 percent have been left with neither welfare nor work. Surveys indicate that about half of them have other means of support, like boyfriends or disability payments; the rest may be experiencing significant new hardships, as Milwaukee's growing homeless shelter population suggests.
Between the two poles of failure or advancement, the most striking thing is that for most families little has changed. "On average, for the middle family here, in terms of their overall economic well-being, W-2 hasn't had a whopping impact," said Robert Haveman, one of the authors of the study.
A similar portrait of families largely running in place was drawn this year in a survey of 375 former welfare recipients sponsored by the state. Again, about two-thirds were working and most said they preferred doing so to being on welfare.
But most also said the movement from welfare to work had done little to ease material hardship, and in some cases might have increased it. Significant percentages reported problems paying for such basics as utilities, 47 percent; housing, 37 percent; and food, 32 percent.
After leaving welfare, poor families were 50 percent more likely to say they did not have enough money for groceries, a finding that rings true after many conversations with former welfare families who spontaneously talked about their struggles for food.
"You can go to my house, look in the refrigerator -- you'll be lucky if there's a gallon of milk in the house," said Tiffany Fiegel, 17, a senior at Pulaski High School whose mother recently left welfare for a job as a receptionist.
Contemplating the empty refrigerator, Ms. Fiegel broke down in tears. "We've got to struggle just to buy toothpaste," she said.
Why do earnings remain so low? In part, the problem is low wages. The state survey found former recipients averaging $7.42 an hour. But an equal if not bigger problem is that few women keep working full time year round. Even at $7.42 an hour, a full-time worker would earn $15,400 a year -- twice the actual earnings documented in the recent wage study.
For single parents with few skills, the problems that prevent full-time work run the gamut. Jobs are sometimes part-time or temporary. New workers grow discouraged and quit. Crises erupt at home: sick children, violent boyfriends, unreliable baby sitters and cars.
Ms. Keeler, the electronics assembly worker, is on her third job in the last year and she counts more than six since 1997. She has been fired for absences, laid off during slow-downs, and forced to quit during an illness related to pregnancy. Three years after first leaving welfare, she once more has a temporary job. "It's good to be working, but you're steady crawling," Ms. keeler said.
State officials say work will bring new order over time. Still a third recent study planted a seed of doubt, while underscoring the chaos in many poor families' lives. The study examined an experimental work program in Milwaukee called Project New Hope, which offered needy workers a guaranteed job at a wage sufficient to lift them out of poverty. But despite that guarantee, the average participant worked only 27 hours a week, and 73 percent remained poor.
A team of psychologists studying New Hope also found that it brought no declines in depression or growth in self-esteem. After two years in the program, the average worker still registered levels of depression above the threshold that most psychologists consider cause for clinical referrals.
In the end, whether the studies are seen as good news (requent employment) or bad news (continued high poverty) depends on two things. One is the value ascribed to work itself, even when the pay merely keeps pace with welfare. "John Q. Citizen would say that it is reasonable to expect people to get their income from work," said J. Jean Rogers, the state official who oversees W-2. "This program has helped tens of thousands of people do that. That's a huge change in a positive direction."
The other is expectations for the long term -- will work bring order and advancement to difficult lives, or will the difficulties continue to interfere with work?
Ms. Rogers takes a positive view. "When you move into the work force you have the opportunity to move up," she said. "What opportunity did they have when they were spending year in and year out on a welfare check?
"We're in the first few years of a new system after 60 years of welfare. You have to give people time."
 
The Lives
Sometimes Work Is Not Enough
Off welfare and at work: if the goal is that alone, Lashanda Washington is a portrait of success. She got her first job as soon as she turned 16. She left high school to work two jobs at once. And her spells on welfare have never lasted more than a couple of months. "I felt that was lazy, just sitting around getting a check," she said. "That would lower my self-esteem. I've always been a worker."
But if the goal is something deeper -- less chaos, more order; reason for confidence in her young son's future -- Ms. Washington's story takes on a different meaning.
Yes, she works and she has for years, even at the age of 20. But her life continues to be thrown into disarray by her troubled family, especially an alcoholic mother who mocks her efforts to get ahead. And her jobs never overcome the chaos at home. Whether she is bagging groceries, wrapping burritos, or standing on an assembly line, she is a textbook example of the major difference between a new job and a new life.
An earnest, street-smart woman, she thought she was turning a corner in July, shortly after an article about her in The New York Times. Her mother checked into a sobriety program. Ms. Washington found the job at Taco Bell. And after an eviction, a social worker helped her find a new apartment.
Then chaos erupted again, this time with her unemployed boyfriend. They fought; he hit her; she put him out. He retaliated by calling child welfare officials to complain, without reason she says, that she was mistreating her two-year-old son. Afraid to leave the boy with a baby sitter as social workers investigated, Ms. Washington simply walked off the job.
A recent visit found the house, as ever, engulfed in midday turmoil. Her short-staffed boss was at the door, asking her to return. A new boyfriend was lying around the house, trying to get her attention. Her mother was drinking near beer and asking for cigarette money. Ms. Washington, the weary family linchpin, returned to her bedroom where she had spent the entire day.
"I'm tired of starting all over again," she said. "Sometimes I just want to cry."
Though it has not happened to Ms. Washington yet, every now and then a real transformation does occur.
If anyone offers an example of deeper success -- a new job and a new life -- it is Michelle Crawford, a 39-year-old Milwaukee woman who went to work last year at a plastics plant, after two decades of desperation and chronic dependence on welfare. Thirteen months later she is still on the job despite a cascade of challenges, and a recent visit to her home served up two reminders.
Few people seem similarly transformed. The other is how difficult life remains, even at the upper-echelons of post-welfare experience.
The story of triumph is one she told to the Wisconsin Legislature in January, at the request of Governor Tommy G. Thompson, the four-term Republican who created W-2. Though much of the program's casework has been impersonal and ineffective, Ms. Crawford's was a marked exception. Beginning in the spring of 1998, the private agency that handled her case, Y-W Works, coaxed her through months of psychological counseling for her chronic problems with depression before pushing her to work at a plastics plant it bought to train clients.
Then, after two months of training, her supervisor drove her to an interview in the suburbs where she landed a full-time job. "Thank you, Jesus," she said at the time, falling to her knees.
While her public story was powerful, it was also incomplete. Behind the scenes, her 19-year-old son had just gone to prison for selling cocaine; her depression was at times galloping out of control; and she was locked in constant, sometimes physical fights with her unemployed husband, Donald Crawford, a recovering addict. Each had been arrested in recent months for attacking the other.
Things are a bit quieter now. Though Ms. Crawford said, "I still just have fits sometimes -- I go off," she and her husband have prayed and sought counseling to avoid the escalations to violence. "The punching and the blah-blah -- that's stopped," she said.
Mr. Crawford found a job, as a hotel maintenance man, and he is up shortly after midnight to work a 2 o'clock shift. Ms. Crawford is up at 4 a.m., to catch the first of three buses to the suburban plant where her shift starts at 6:55.
Financially, life remains in turmoil, even with her annual income of nearly $16,000. No longer eligible for food stamps, Ms. Crawford struggles simply to keep food on the table. She is a regular at food pantries, and her husband recently sold a car, for $250, to re-stock the freezer.
Even a commodity as basic as a gallon of milk remains a prized household item. To trick her children into drinking it in cheaper, powdered form, she started sweetening the watery substitute with sugar and slipping it into regular milk jugs. "Then we ran out of sugar," she said, laughing at her predicament.
In speaking to the Legislature, Ms. Crawford drew the biggest applause when she pointed toward her three minor children -- Lorenzo, 14; Lavita, 11; and Yolando, 7 -- who were watching from the gallery.
"I was so proud when I got the job," she said. "Now I tell my kids this is what happens when you do your homework. My kids see a difference in me." Nothing captures the national hopes about ending welfare more than that, the faith in example-setting.
In separate recent conversations, Ms. Crawford and her children did not exactly reject that notion. But they certainly did complicate it, tempering its appeal with real-world nuance. Whatever future benefits her example of hard work sets, it has also brought new stress, especially for the two girls who miss their mother's attention.
Both have begun acting up in school, and Yolando, a second-grade charmer with a million-dollar smile, was recently suspended for punching a classmate. To steal back her time with her mother, Yolando has even begun getting up with her at 4 a.m. "I thought I was going to have my kids go see a whatchacallit -- child therapist," Ms. Crawford said. "But they just want attention."
In describing the effect of the job the household, the children spoke less of abstract pride than of concrete stress.
"She don't want to cook -- she said she's too tired and stuff," Yolando said.
"When she's tired, she's crabby," Lorenzo said.
"She says, 'Just leave me alone.' She acts mean," Lavita said.
"She don't act mean," Lorenzo said. "She just don't want to be bothered."
Lavita predicted she might turn to welfare one day because "I'll probably have kids before I have a job," and she does not want a husband. "He'd probably get on my nerves."
But Lorenzo mocked her. "That's ghetto!" he said.
Ms. Crawford told much the same story of stress, saying she is typically too tired to help her children with their homework, and she is often too tired to cook. For a moment, her words took an uncharacteristic turn toward the bitter. "Right now, I got to concentrate on myself and what I got to do," she said. "I'm sorry my kids are taking it the way they are. They're acting like little selfish brats."
But mostly she talked in the weary tones of working mothers everywhere. "I sometimes feel like I'm not taking care of my family like I should," she said. "But a lot of times, when I come home, I'm just so tired."
 
Life After Welfare
With the nation's welfare rolls down 43 percent, President Clinton, as well as his Republican critics, count the landmark 1996 welfare law as the cornerstone of their respective legacies. That law replaced a 60-year-old cash safety net with a program of time limits and work requirements.
No place has come closer than Wisconsin to the goal of "ending welfare." A decade ago, 100,000 Wisconsin families relied on public aid. Now 7,000 do.
The changes taking place in the state, particularly in its largest city, Milwaukee, continue to reverberate in broad and unpredictable ways. Throughout 1999, The New York Times returned to Milwaukee to plot the pattern of change. This is the last article of the series.
The articles and related coverage of welfare issues are available on The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lashanda Washington, center, is off welfare, but faces daily struggles that go beyond working at her job. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The Crossroads -- Bus stops, a check-cashing store and other services make Martin Luther King Jr. Drive at Center Street a main crossroads for Milwaukee's poorest neighborhood. At income-tax filing time, the drive was lined with new tax preparation offices as new workers filed for the first time.; Avoiding Trouble -- Street life tempts children whether parents work or not. Terry Johnson, recently out of prison and working again, talked sternly with his son, Tremayne, about the boy's suspension from school.; Sticking With It -- New workers often resist workplace rules and a boss's authority. Tanya Moore, arranging day care for her year-old daughter with a caseworker, has had seven jobs in three years. (pg. A20); Barely Essentials -- Many families are short of food even after mothers go to work. Tiffany Fiegel, above right, a student at Pulaski High School, moved a counselor to tears describing her family's empty refrigerator.; A Legacy of Abuse -- Mary Rhoden, preparing for a job interview while her daughters get ready for school, has quit several jobs.; Family Tensions -- A mother's going to work means less time for her children. Yolondo Crawford, 7, who gets up at 4 a.m. to see her mother, Michelle, before she leaves for work, has begun acting up.; Two-Way Street -- The end of welfare has many perspectives. William Love, a bus driver and a landlord, has seen more commuters on his bus, right, and more trouble collecting rent. (Photographs by NICOLE BENGIVENO/The New York Times)(pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); FAST FOOD (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); EVICTION (62%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (60%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



726 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Hijackers Told India Will Meet Some Demands
Indian negotiators may have agreed to release some Kashmiri militants as hijackers still hold 154 hostages in an Indian Airlines jet at an airport in Afghanistan. A1
 
The Taliban's foreign minister said Afghanistan regarded the crisis as a humanitarian issue and had no sympathy for the hijackers just because they might be fellow Muslims. A14 

Fallout From Chechnya Assault
Videotape supporting allegations that Russian soldiers plundered a village near Grozny stirred up a political storm in Moscow. A3
 
A St. Petersburg judge acquitted a former naval captain, Aleksandr Nikitin, of charges that he leaked state secrets about nuclear pollution to a Norwegian environmental group. A3
 
Criminal Inquiry of Kohl Funds
German prosecutors said they would begin a criminal investigation into secret political funds maintained by Helmut Kohl, Germany's chancellor from 1982 until last year. A11
 
Fiscal Victory for Argentine
Congress gave President Fernando de la Rua his most important victory after weeks of tough negotiations by raising taxes more than $2 billion to counteract an expanding budget deficit. Government officials said that together with a $1.4 billion cut in spending enacted on Tuesday, the action should reassure foreign investors and lower interest rates to speed business expansion. A12
 
Inquiry Into NATO Downplayed
Officials of the tribunal investigating war crimes in the Balkans said a study of possible Western crimes in Kosovo is a preliminary, internal document that is unlikely to produce indictments or even be published. A7
 
Europe Reeling From Storms
The death toll from the past days' storms, which battered France and other parts of Europe with winds up to 125 miles an hour, continued to rise. Officials said 74 people had died in France, which was hardest hit, and 49 elsewhere in Europe. A5
 
Japan Frees Cult Figure
Fumihiro Joyu, the spokesman of the religious cult responsible for the deadly gas attack on Tokyo's subway system in 1995, was released from prison. He had been held on charges unrelated to the subway attack. A15
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-24
 
Bradley and McCain Surge In Campaign Fund-Raising
Bill Bradley and John McCain, two insurgent presidential candidates challenging their parties' front-runners, made significant gains in raising money in the last few months, each exceeding the amount raised by Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Bradley said he had raised more than $8 million from October through December, to Mr. Gore's $4 million, and Senator McCain said he had taken in $6.1 million. Gov. George W. Bush, Senator McCain's rival for the Republican nomination, is to announce his results today. A1
 
Bloody Prison Hostage Incident
A prison guard and an inmate were killed Tuesday in a hostage-taking at the Louisiana State Penitentiary that the warden said might have been inspired in part by the recent success of Cuban inmates in negotiating their deportation during a hostage incident at a Louisiana jail. A16
 
U.A.W. Gets a Day Off to Vote
Election Day will be a paid holiday for 400,000 unionized auto workers under a contract clause that union leaders hope will increase labor's influence and that Republicans call a corporate sellout. The bulk of the workers live in Michigan and Ohio, two large states that have played pivotal roles in recent presidential elections. A24
 
Awaiting Trial Behind Bars
A federal judge in New Mexico refused to grant bail to Wen Ho Lee, the government scientist charged with mishandling nuclear weapons secrets. But the judge said he would reconsider if it could be shown that Dr. Lee told the truth when he said he had destroyed seven missing computer tapes containing many secrets. A18
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Practicing on the Dying
The authors of a study in The New England Journal of Medicine called for a halt to something that is little known to the public but familiar to doctors in emergency rooms: allowing doctors in training to perform an unnecessary invasive procedure -- the threading of a tube into the femoral vein in the groin -- just for practice and without informed consent from patients for whom resuscitation efforts appear to be failing. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Reports Say Nassau Deficit Is Higher Than Expected
The State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, left, issued a report estimating that the Nassau County budget set to take effect on Jan. 1 was $190 million in the red, a shortfall nearly twice as large as previously predicted. The county's own comptroller estimated that the shortfall could be as much as $180 million. B1
 
East Side Water Main Break
A break in an Upper East Side water main at 96th Street sent a wave of water rushing from Second Avenue toward the East River, flooding basement apartments and businesses, knocking out heat in several buildings and disrupting traffic throughout the day. B3
 
Criticism of Police Discipline
Since 1996, the New York City Police Department has disciplined officers in only 24 percent of the cases of brutality and other misconduct substantiated by the civilian agency that investigates complaints from the public, the New York Civil Liberties Union said. Police Commissioner Howard Safir criticized the report as misleading in its conclusions. B6
 
Food Safety Inquiry Expands
New York State health officials were investigating whether foie gras made by D'Artagnan, a New Jersey company, made three people in Westchester County and one in Oswego County ill this fall. D'Artagnan recalled 26 products on Tuesday out of fear that they might be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes, a potentially deadly bacterium. B7
 
NEEDIEST CASES B6
 
ARTS E1-16
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
SPORTS D1-10
Seeking Peace on the Slopes
The ski industry is seeing an increasing deterioration in common courtesy on the slopes, and it is taking various steps to try to ease tensions and avoid confrontations that often pit skiers against snowboarders. D4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Nasdaq Ends Above 4,000
The Nasdaq rose 69.34 points, or 1.7 percent, to 4,041.46, its first close above the 4,000 level. The technology-heavy index is now up 84.3 percent since the end of 1998, well on its way to recording the best year ever for a major American stock index. A1
 
The blue-chip Dow eked out a gain of 7.95 points, to 11,484.66, and the S.& P. 500 was up 5.80 points, at 1,463.46. C5
 
Schwab Holds Up to Competition
Charles Schwab, the leading online brokerage firm, said the first quarter in which it faced head-on competition from Merrill Lynch and from Morgan Stanley Dean Witter would be its most profitable ever. C1
 
Dispute Over Data Collection
A computer security expert has complained to the F.T.C. that data-collection software made by an Amazon subsidiary can gather too much personal information on consumers. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-10
 
A Timepiece for 20 Millenniums
The National Institute of Standards and Technology in Boulder, Colo., a part of the Commerce Department, began operating a new atomic clock, the NIST F-1, which officials said would neither gain nor lose a single second over 20 million years. G5
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Watching for the Y2K bug; risky political tactics in Israel; the uncertain blessings of longevity.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E14
 
TV Listings E16
 
Crossword E12
 
Weather A24
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); KOSOVO (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); INDIA (73%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INDIAN AIRLINES (74%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); KOSOVO (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); INDIA (73%); KASHMIR (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALIBAN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); AIRLINES (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WAR CRIMES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); WEATHER (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); CULTS & SECTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); ACQUITTAL (55%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); AL GORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



727 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: MEN'S BASKETBALL;
Orangemen Off To a 9-0 Start

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:

SYRACUSE 90, HARTFORD 69
 Damone Brown had 15 points and helped power an 18-1 run as No. 7 Syracuse pulled away from visiting Hartford for a 90-69 men's basketball victory last night. 
 After pulling to 34-26, Hartford (2-6) went scoreless the final four minutes of the first half and did not get its first field goal in the second half until Mantas Storpirstis's layin at the 15-minute-45-second mark.
 Syracuse (9-0) scored the final 6 points of the first period and then, with Brown contributing 7 points, the Orangemen went on a 12-1 spurt to open the second half, building a a 55-29 lead before Storpirstis's basket ended Hartford's drought.
 
STANFORD 119, NEW HAMPSHIRE 60
 Mark Madsen, the Cardinal's only returning starter from last season, made his comeback after missing eight games because of a strained right hamstring as No. 1 Stanford (10-0) beat New Hampshire (1-8) in the opener of the Stanford Invitational.
 Stanford tied a school record with 15 3-pointers. Madsen made an emphatic return, blocking a shot in his first few seconds on the court and then making a layup at the other end. He had 8 points, 8 rebounds, 2 assists and 2 blocks in 21 minutes.
 
OHIO STATE 79, AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 43
 Ken Johnson blocked two more shots than American University made in the first half as No. 15 Ohio State (8-2) rolled. Johnson had eight blocks in the first half against the visiting Eagles (5-5), who made just 6 of 29 shots (21 percent) in the first 20 minutes.
 
WISCONSIN 62, TEMPLE 44
 Jon Bryant and Charlie Wills each scored 12 points as host Wisconsin (8-4) routed No. 17 Temple (6-3). Bryant scored all of his points on 3-point baskets as Wisconsin made a season-high nine 3-pointers. Andy Kowske added 10 for the Badgers.
 
WAKE FOREST 84, OHIO 78
 Robert O'Kelley, held to 1 point in the first half, scored 7 of his 17 points in the second overtime as No. 19 Wake Forest (9-2) beat Ohio (7-5) in the consolation round of the Rainbow Classic in Honolulu. Wake Forest took an 80-78 lead on Chris Dawson's basket with 1:12 remaining in the second overtime. O'Kelley then hit a field goal and added two free throws.
 
A.S.U. HOLIDAY CLASSIC
 
BUCKNELL 70, MANHATTAN 66
Dan Bowen and Dyrika Cameron each scored 15 points to lead Bucknell (6-4) past Manhattan (4-5) in the consolation game of the AZCentral.com-A.S.U. Holiday Classic in Tempe, Ariz. Bryan Bailey scored 13 points, including three free throws in the final 45.2 seconds for the Bison (6-4), who snapped a three-game losing streak. Brian Muckle added 10 points, 9 rebounds and 8 assists for Bucknell.
 
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS TOURNAMENT
 
MAINE 84, L.I.U. 63
Nate Fox scored 21 points on 8-for-12 shooting as Maine beat Long Island University in the first round of the Holiday Inn Express tournament in Stony Brook, N.Y. Julian Dunkley added 17 points for Maine (8-3), and Huggy Dye had 16. Richie Parker had 21 points for L.I.U. (2-6), which lost its third in a row.
 
STONY BROOK 49, ARMY 45
Steve Pratta scored 13 points as Stony Brook (2-12) outlasted Army (2-7) in a first-round game. Seth Barrett had a game-high 15 points for the Black Knights. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS (85%); AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (64%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (97%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (97%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (97%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (97%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (92%); 

PERSON: J MARK MADSEN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



728 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: For Dinner: New Choices at China's Table

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The World Bank's Aim: Beef for China" (Op-Ed, Dec. 28), by Neal D. Barnard: That the Chinese people have traditionally eaten more vegetables and rice than meat is because for most of Chinese history most of the population has lived at a poor level. 
 Having lived in China for several years, I know that Chinese people who have a reached a certain level of disposable income will invariably choose to eat high amounts of beef, chicken and, most of all, shellfish, which is as bad if not worse for you than beef. One need only look at Taiwan and Hong Kong to see what middle-class Chinese people prefer to eat. The eating habits of the Taiwanese and the Hong Kong Chinese are decidedly not vegetarian, and this is related to income levels and not any sort of "Eastern" diet.
JOSEPH LEVINSON
New York, Dec. 28, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (William van Roden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (74%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (73%); UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (73%); UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; DIET AND NUTRITION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (88%); NUTRITION (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (69%); 

PERSON: LEVINSON, JOSEPH; BARNARD, NEAL D (DR)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



729 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 6;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Restoring the Charm to Madison Square Park

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Some of the ornaments on the granite fountain are missing and it no longer spews water. Stretches of the wrought iron fence are broken and twisted. And the lawns are blotchy from neglect.
Bit by bit, over the years, Madison Square Park, nestled in a corporate canyon just north of the Flatiron Building at 23rd Street and Broadway, has been losing its charm, even as its neighborhood prospers. 
 But next month, workers are to begin a $5 million face lift that Deborah Landau, the executive director of the City Parks Foundation, says is intended to restore the park to its original 19th century beauty, when neighbors like Edith Wharton and Theodore Roosevelt strolled its meandering paths.
The fountain will be brought back to life, Ms. Landau said, and a reflecting pool will be built in the north end of the park's 6.2 acres. Dozens of trees and shrubs will replace scraggly counterparts. New grass will be sown and a flower garden planted. At the southeast corner, at 23rd Street and Madison Avenue, the renovators will also reclaim a wedge of ground that had been sliced off as a short cut for trolleys and is now a parking lot for motorcycles. Antique-looking street lamps of fluted cast iron will be brought in and clunky concrete benches will give way to less bulky ones of wood and wrought iron; the benches, styled like those used at the 1939 New York World's Fair, are being increasingly used in the city. The park will remain open.
Following the lead of people who live on the edges of Central Park and have poured a fortune into improvements there, the businesses that surround Madison Square Park -- giants like Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York Life Insurance, Credit Suisse First Boston, Rudin Management and Bell Atlantic -- decided to join together to beautify what amounts to their front yard. Ms. Landau worked out a deal with the city: If the businesses could come up with $2.5 million, the city would provide the rest of the necessary $5 million.
In addition, the parks foundation and some neighbors, including residents and new Silicon Alley companies, have been chipping in to raise an additional $6 million to form a trust that will pay for a park director, a gardener and workers to maintain the park's grounds, as well as its World War I memorial, dog run, small playground and monuments.
Two big insurance companies led the way for the project. Sy Sternberg, the chief executive of New York Life, whose gold-domed headquarters rises at the north end of the park at Madison and 26th Street, had his company contribute $900,000. Robert H. Benmosche, the chief executive of Met Life, whose 50-story turn-of-the-century tower rises at the southeast corner of the park, at Madison and 23rd Street, had his company give even more: $2.4 million, and, as one neighbor put it, "used his influence on neigbors" and the tenants of the adjoining Art Deco office block owned by Met Life, to raise much of the rest of the money.
One contributor who did not need encouragement was Danny Meyer, the restaurateur, who has leased the entire first two floors of the Met Life office block facing the park between 24th and 25th Streets. Mr. Meyer, who opened a pair of new dining places, 11 Madison Park and Tabla, in the building, not only pitched in $100,000 but persuaded others to contribute.
Mr. Meyer knows what a beautiful park can do for business. He opened the Union Square Cafe 15 years ago and was one of the pioneers in the long-running improvement of Union Square Park, which helped pep up the whole area. "We could not afford space off Union Square if we were just coming in now," Mr. Meyer said the other day.
He jumped at a chance to lease space facing Madison Square Park, he said. But he wanted assurances that Met Life would take "a substantial leadership role" in sprucing up the park.
"This is going to be an extraordinary agent of community wealth," he said in a conversation at his 11 Madison Park restaurant, which blends metal and marble features in the Art Deco style with flourishes of the park's greenery and park photographs from yesteryear. "Even if you're not the type of person who cares for the health of his front lawn, you would want to help develop this economic engine."
Mr. Sternberg agreed. "If we can make some contribution to the stability of the neighborhood," he said, "it ultimately accrues value to the company."
The park was named for President James Madison and designed by Ignatz Pilat, an assistant to Frederick Law Olmsted, the designer of Central Park. Built on the remnant of a former Army parade ground, it opened in 1847. Madison Square Garden went up 32 years later on the corner now occupied by New York Life. In 1925, Madison Square Garden moved uptown to 34th Street.
Ms. Landau's foundation and other citizens' groups have been working to improve more than a dozen of the city's hundreds of parks. The parks that get the special attention, she said, are those whose neighbors get the ball rolling. "We don't get involved unless there is community support," she said.
Henry J. Stern, the city parks and recreations commissioner, there was only so much money available for park maintenance. "But this partnership with the city and businesses and residents gives us a chance to completely overhaul the park," he said. "It's going to be a jewel of a park."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the restoration of Madison Square Park misstated the history of Madison Square Garden. The original Madison Square Garden, at 26th Street and Madison Avenue, was razed in 1925. It then moved to Eighth Avenue and 50th Street before moving to its current site atop Pennsylvania Station in 1968.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A New Look for Madison Square Park"
The chart shows some of the major renovations to begin next month, including: new trees; new location of monument; new reflection pool; reseeded lawns; concession stand; more lighting; new benches; and gates at all eight entrances. (Source: City Parks Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (81%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (81%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (81%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); INSURANCE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); WORLD WAR I (50%); 

PERSON: SEYMOUR G STERNBERG (55%); ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999



730 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 37; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3773 words

HEADLINE: POP AND JAZZ GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy pop and jazz concerts in New York City this weekend, including New Year's Eve celebrations. * denotes a highly recommended concert.
 
ANTIFOLK Y2K PARTY, Sidewalk Cafe, 94 Avenue A, at Sixth Street, East Village, (212) 473-7373. Ring in the new century the East Village way, at a conclave of local poets, satirists and rabble-rousers led by Lach, the man who has almost singlehandedly kept antifolk alive in the Clinton era. He will play with his new band, the Secrets; other performers include the wonderful Heather Eatman, the Humans, Joie DBG, David Gragov, the Grey Revell Band, Patsy Grace, Joe Bendik and Maj. Matt Mason U.S.A. Tonight at 8; admission is free (Ann Powers). 

GATO BARBIERI QUINTET, REGINA BELLE, MIRI BEN-ARI TRIO, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592. All gatos have a few lives, and Mr. Barbieri, the saxophonist, has had three: first as a free-jazz wailer in the early 1970's, then as the soloist on the celebrated "Last Tango in Paris" soundtrack and now as a smooth-jazz balladeer. He is on the bill with the singer Regina Belle and the up-and-coming violinist Miri Ben-Ari, whose attack is so ferocious that she may give you your necessary second wind. The first party is tonight from 7:30 to 12:30; $500 a person at the tables, including a four-course dinner, open bar and Champagne toast; or $300 per person for table seating without dinner; or $250 at the bar (minus dinner). The second show starts at 1 a.m. and lasts until whenever; the price is $180 a person at tables, without dinner and open bar, and $100 at the bar. Regina Belle performs tomorrow and Sunday night at 9 and 11:30; $45 cover with a $5 minimum (Ben Ratliff).
 
DAVID BERKMAN QUARTET, Detour, 349 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 533-6212. More often than not, in clubs without a piano, Mr. Berkman reminds his audiences why the Fender Rhodes electric piano is a beautiful instrument in its own right, not just a substitute for the real thing. When he does have the real thing, he's even better. He's a burner in the straight-ahead jazz style, with a good debut album, "Handmade" (Palmetto), to his credit. Music starts tomorrow at 9:30 p.m.; there is no cover charge (Ratliff).
 
BLACK 47, Connolly's Pub, 14 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 867-3767. Black 47 plays Irish neighborhood music from the Bronx, not Dublin. Bainbridge Avenue runs through a Bronx neighborhood where new Irish immigrants meet the New York mosaic. In Black 47's songs, jigs and reels mesh with rock and hip-hop. Music begins tonight at 10; admission is $20 (Jon Pareles).
 
ANGELA BOFILL, Iridium, 48 West 63rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 582-2121. The singer Angela Bofill, a virtuoso with a four-octave range, has moved in and out of jazz and pop. She lavishes lung power and ornamentation on her love songs. Two shows tonight: one at 7:30, including a three-course dinner, for $125 a person, and one at 10:45, with a four-course dinner and unlimited Champagne, for $295 a person (Pareles).
 
CLAUDIA QUINTET, Knitting Factory, Old Office, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. This imaginative band, led by the drummer and composer John Hollenbeck, lays vibraphone, clarinet and accordion on top of bass and drums. It's sensitive, thinking music, continually changing shape and texture. And it's clear that Mr. Hollenbeck's goals lie beyond jazz, but all the same he swings, neatly and unostentatiously. Sets are Sunday night at 8 and 9:30; admission is $7, with a one-drink minimum (Ratliff).
 
PAULA COLE, THE ROOTS, Life, 158 Bleecker Street, at Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 420-1999. In keeping with its thriving system of hierarchical V.I.P. rooms, Life presents a three-tiered party tonight. The priciest ticket includes a buffet dinner at 6:30 p.m. and a performance by the bohemian pop-soul singer Paula Cole; $100 less gets you no chow but a 10 p.m. set by Ms. Cole. And for $125, and well worth the price, you can show up tipsy at 3 a.m. and welcome 2000 with the best live band in hip-hop (and one of the best in any genre), the Roots. Shows are at 8 and 10 p.m., and 3 a.m.; tickets are $350, $250 and $125 (Powers)
 
RICHIE COLE'S ALTO MADNESS ORCHESTRA, the Phoenix Room, 570 Amsterdam Avenue, at 88th Street, Manhattan, (212) 544-2210. The alto-saxophonist Richie Cole was in Buddy Rich's big band for three years in the early 70's, which helped him understand jazz as a sort of perpetually exploding dynamite shed. He's a good player, influenced by Phil Woods, and he's been underrecognized for a few decades. Tonight: limited seating from 8 to 10 p.m.; six-course dinner plus open bar is $200, and a late-night buffet with admission to one set is $100; Champagne toast at midnight. Seating in the Cherokee Room with a late-night buffet and champagne toast for $50 is also available (Ratliff)
 
DEEP BANANA BLACKOUT, Wetlands Preserve, 161 Hudson Street, at Laight Street, TriBeCa, (212) 966-4225. For this big night, the team that runs Wetlands could have highlighted any number of musical styles that pass through the club, from Grateful Dead homages to neo-bluegrass, techno-tinged progressive rock or earthy hip-hop. But who could blame them for choosing a band that adheres to the fundamentals of body-shaking funk? Deep Banana Blackout is one of the Northeast's favorite party bands, so the vibrations in the room should be excellent. With Electric Hill. Doors open tonight at 8, and music begins at 10; admission is $60 (Powers).
 
DR. ISRAEL, Knitting Factory, Old Office, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. The deep, leisurely bass lines of dub reggae are the foundation of jungle, which layers jittery electronic drumbeats on top of those bass lines. Dr. Israel (alias Douglas Bennett), a reggae singer, reunites the two branches of reggae's family tree, singing uplifting messages over vertiginous grooves. Music tonight at 11; admission is free (Pareles).
 
EMINEM, Tunnel, 220 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 695-4682. With his cutting, nasal voice, droll productions by Dr. Dre and an imagination that turns carnage into comedy, Eminem (for the initials of Marshall Mathers, his original name) was the leading bad-boy rapper of early 1999. He mocks every propriety and everyone including himself, and while he is not the most skillful rapper onstage -- he needs backups to keep him somewhere near the beat -- it hardly matters when his fans are eagerly shouting along. The Tunnel has also scheduled eight disc jockeys in three rooms, among them Ivan Gonzo and Eddie Baez. Doors open at 9 p.m. Tickets are $99, or $175 with open bar; the club is also offering a weekend pass for New Year's Eve through Jan. 2 for $150 (Pareles).
 
* TOMMY FLANAGAN TRIO, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232. Mr. Flanagan helped define an elegant postwar mainstream in jazz piano; he plays with such refinement that he makes bebop seem like a natural fit with the American song tradition. And his small-group arrangements in his longtime trio with Peter Washington and Lewis Nash are models of economy and imagination. Tonight's first set is at 8, with a three-course dinner, for $100, or without dinner for $50; the second set is at 11, with a three-course dinner, show, party favors and dancing, for $225, or $150 for the show only. Sets tomorrow night are at 8 and 10:30, with a cover of $25 and a $10 minimum; on Sunday night, sets are at 7 and 9, and the cover charge is $18 with a $10 minimum (Ratliff).
 
DAVID HAZELTINE, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662. This pianist plays with a cooperative quartet, including the trumpeter Jim Rotondi, the bassist John Webber and the drummer Neil Smith; they can play hard-hitting, involved music, and this new, small jazz club, frequented by students, seems like a cheerily low-key place to spend the evening. Music tonight is from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m.; there is an open bar, a raw bar with shellfish, party favors and a Champagne toast for $195. From 1 to 8 a.m., there is one more live set and a D.J. dance party for a $15 cover; early guests may stay for no additional charge (Ratliff).
 
JAVON JACKSON QUARTET, Sweet Basil, 88 Seventh Avenue South, near Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 242-1785. Without staging a full-scale subversion of jazz, the tenor-saxophonist Javon Jackson makes good decisions about material and instrumentation; there might be a Hammond organ on the bandstand, and you might hear music written by Frank Zappa, Caetano Veloso or Carlos Santana. And as a soloist he is a thoughtful player, laid-back enough to savor the horn's natural gargles. Tonight's celebration is from 9 to midnight, with an all-inclusive dinner package for $175; the late show is from 1 to 3 a.m., with a $40 cover and a $25 minimum, including Champagne toast. Sets tomorrow at 9 and 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m. and Sunday at 9 and 11 p.m.; cover charge is $25 with a $10 minimum (Ratliff).
 
BILLY JOEL, Madison Square Garden, Seventh Avenue at 32nd Street, (212) 465-6741. Billy Joel's huge catalog of hits includes songs that touch on every idiom from doo-wop to sea chantey to bossa nova to barrelhouse pop, driven by formidable piano technique and an underlying pugnacity. He's the bard of the suburbs, assuring fans that even if they've settled down they're still rebels at heart. While he has said he's giving up pop songwriting for instrumental music, he'll be rolling out the hits for New Year's Eve. Tonight at 9; tickets are $150 to $999.99 (Pareles).
 
KID CREOLE AND THE COCONUTS, Greatest Bar on Earth, 1 World Trade Center, lower Manhattan, (212) 524-7000. August Darnell, or Kid Creole, runs his band like a compact Broadway revue, with Kid Creole -- a suave would-be Casanova who's not always lucky -- flanked by the Coconuts, who are both all-purpose temptresses and a chorus line. Long before the rediscovery of Latin rhythms, he performed as if Manhattan were the northernmost Caribbean island; more recently he has raised the quotient of funk. Music begins tonight at 10; admission is $300 with open bar (Pareles).
 
LI'L ED AND THE BLUES IMPERIALS, Chicago Blues, 73 Eighth Avenue, at 14th Street, West Village, (212) 924-9755. Ed Williams, or Li'l Ed, plays his blues basic and rowdy. His band stomps out Chicago blues and shuffles while Li'l Ed belts the tunes, makes his guitar squeal and slide, and jumps all over the stage. It's primal good-time music, and once it revs up there's no stopping it. Sunday at 9 and 10:30 p.m. and midnight. Admission is $10, with a two-drink minimum (Pareles).
 
JOE LOVANO TRIO, GLORIA LYNNE, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080. A gig not to miss, if you want to be reminded why jazz quickened your pulse in the first place. Mr. Lovano just winds up and lets his broad, powerful saxophone sound go, ripping up ballads and open-ended originals with a superb trio that includes the bassist Cameron Brown and the drummer Idris Muhammad. He's a generous performer who gives it his all. Tonight beginning at 9; table seating $150 per person plus $25 minimum, $100 at the bar with a $25 minimum. Includes a Champagne toast at midnight. Performances tomorrow are at 9 and 11 p.m.; cover charge is $30 with a $10 minimum (Ratliff).
 
* MANOLITO Y SU TRABUCO, S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940. A top Cuban band leader with his eye on the world, the pianist Manolito Simonet has his ear to music across Latin America, from older Cuban styles like charanga (with violin and flute answering voices) to trumpet-topped Cuban conjunto to cumbia to current salsa romantica and songo. He's a traditionalist on one song, up to the minute on the next as the singers announce his intention to reach listeners in Venezuela, Colombia, Puerto Rico and New York. Since Cuban bands play constantly for dancing crowds, Manolito y Su Trabuco (War Machine) has honed its music to keep people in motion. Tonight the club is offering packages at $95 a person (general admission after 1 a.m.), $195 (general admission after 10 p.m., with hors d'oeuvres and a Champagne toast) and $395 (including a five-course dinner and breakfast at dawn) (Pareles).
 
MEAT LOAF, Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, Manhattan, (212) 496-7070. Meat Loaf recently made his latest comeback as an unhandsome character in the movie "Fight Club." Onstage, however, he's still applying his rock heldentenor to Jim Steinman's proudly, campily bombastic songs about fondly remembered teenage lust and the possibility of love. Tonight at 8; tickets are $75 to $250. Tomorrow night at 8, tickets are $50 to $100 (Pareles).
 
BUDDY MILES, Chicago Blues, 73 Eighth Avenue, below 14th Street, West Village, (212) 924-9755. Buddy Miles was the quintessential singing drummer of the 1960's, playing in Electric Flag and then in Jimi Hendrix's Band of Gypsies and belting a hit of his own in 1969, "Them Changes." After some hard years, including a jail term for theft in the 1970's, he has returned to the circuit, still an exuberant singer and a splashy, hard-hitting drummer. Shows are tonight at 9:30, 11:30 p.m. and 1:30. General admission is $50; seating is $75 for the first set and $100 for the second set (Pareles).
 
MURPHY'S LAW, Continental, 25 Third Avenue, at St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 529-6924. Still bratty after all these years, Murphy's Law is one of New York's long-running, die-hard punk bands. It shares a guitar-charged lineup with Helldorado, Candy Snatchers and Suicide King. Tonight at midnight; tickets are $30 (Pareles).
 
TITO NIEVES, JOSE ALBERTO (EL CANARIO), JOHNNY PACHECO, Copacabana, 617 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 582-2672. A salsa triple bill leans toward romance amid the rumbas, cha-chas and boleros. Tito Nieves is one of Latin pop's longtime Romeos, promising "salsa con clase" (salsa with class). With a sincere, ardent tenor, he vows his love in Spanish or English. Jose Alberto sails above the salsa grooves with fervor and improvisations that have earned him his nickname, the Canary. The flutist Johnny Pacheco has been one of salsa's most important band leaders since Fania Records ruled Latin music in the 1970's. Music begins tonight at 10. Table seating is $125 a person; general admission, $60; admission after 3 a.m., $30 (Pareles)
 
* MACEO PARKER, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800. There was a reason James Brown used to shout "Maceo!" in the middle of a funk workout. Maceo Parker was the alto saxophonist who drove the horn section in Mr. Brown's groundbreaking J. B.'s and went on to work for George Clinton's Parliament-Funkadelic when Mr. Clinton latched on to members of the J. B.'s. After sparking two definitive funk bands, he leads a group that knows the secrets of getting on the good foot. Special guests are also promised. Doors open tonight at 9. Tickets are $200 (Pareles).
 
P. M. DAWN, CRYSTAL WATERS, SUGAR HILL GANG, Shine, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, lower Manhattan, (212) 941-0900. Two hip-hop groups and a dance-floor diva share this triple bill. P. M. Dawn has made some of the dreamiest albums in hip-hop, combining psychedelia with a quest for Christian faith. Its music floats understated raps and Prince Be's ethereal singing on tracks that melt in the ear. Crystal Waters brought social consciousness into discos with her 1991 hit, "Gypsy Woman (She's Homeless)," and has since switched to singing about love and basketball. "Rapper's Delight" by the Sugar Hill Gang, released in 1979, is the cornerstone of recorded hip-hop: just a party tune that happened to set off a musical revolution. Now the Gang has turned itself into a hip-hop oldies act, performing its own rhymes and others from back in the day. Tickets tonight are $250 to $450, including open bar from 9:30 p.m. to 2 a.m. (Pareles).
 
* GIL SCOTT-HERON, ROY AYERS, Cooler, 416 West 14th Street, West Village, (212) 229-0785. With assertively political poems like "The Revolution Will Not Be Televised," Gil Scott-Heron was integral to the consciousness-raising poetry movement that was part of the roots of hip-hop and the 1990's revival of spoken-word performance. But while his convictions remain intact, he has turned from recitation to singing, slipping his ideas into easygoing jazz-funk vamps. The vibraphonist Roy Ayers has built a career on sleek pop-jazz grooves that have lately found a second life as hip-hop samples. The disc jockeys Franco and Bugaloo Mike are to fill in between sets. Doors open at 9:30 p.m.; open bar until 11. Tickets are $120 (Pareles).
 
* MICHELLE SHOCKED AND THE PHILOSOPHER KINGS, Bottom Line, 15 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 228-6300. Michelle Shocked is a radical artist, unafraid of sharing her political views and her bare emotions. She has run into trouble with the mainstream music industry, but she hasn't quit; she just retrained her focus on the grass-roots following that got her in the first place. Now she will share the latest fruits of her unwavering work ethic: all new songs at her three performances this week, to ring in a new millennium of constructive troublemaking. Doors open tonight at 7:30 for a 9:30 show; tickets are $50 (Powers).
 
* SUN RA ARKESTRA WITH MARC RIBOT, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. Sun Ra's Arkestra couldn't be more appropriate for the first night of 2000. Its founder, who died in 1993, long ago had his eye on the future, with its 21st-century promises of space travel and interplanetary communication. The Arkestra, now led by the saxophonist Marshall Allen, is a big band that bristles with exuberant loose ends, and its sets move from barely warped swing-band arrangements to vamp tunes (like "Space Is the Place") to squalls of free jazz. It turns typical swing-band arrangements into something richer and stranger by adding layers of dissonance and percussion that only make the music sound more joyful. The guitarist Marc Ribot, who has played with Tom Waits and Chocolate Genius, can pick through jazz changes or make his guitar clank and boing; he should be thoroughly compatible with the Arkestra. Tomorrow at 8 and 10:30 p.m.; admission is $14 (Pareles).
 
TIJUANA CARAVAN, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700. Get down to the basics of rootsy funk-rock with this Philadelphia-based party band. Three sets, party favors and a Champagne toast keep the mood high. Doors open tonight at 8; tickets are $35 (Powers).
 
THE VOLUPTUOUS HORROR OF KAREN BLACK, CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 982-4052. Punk, heavy metal and plenty of mascara add up to the Voluptuous Horror of Karen Black, a long-running punk-rock show band whose songs hark back to the Cramps and early Blondie. Kembra Pfahler, the band's semiclad singer, makes promises like "Take my hand and you will see/What a maniac I can be." The bill also includes Motor Betty and Probe. Music begins tonight around 10; admission is $35 the day of the show (Pareles).
 
DR. MICHAEL WHITE'S ORIGINAL LIBERTY JAZZ BAND OF NEW ORLEANS, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037. Dr. Michael White takes his chosen idiom, New Orleans jazz of the 20's, very seriously, and his band, nearing a decade of New Year's shows at the Vanguard, performs lively versions of tunes associated with Louis Armstrong, King Oliver and others from the Crescent City. If the concept is strictly classical, the players have presence and nerve. Tonight doors open at 10, with a set at 11; $125 a person includes the $25 drink minimum, party favors, a New Year's Eve T-shirt and New Orleans-style food. Sets tomorrow and Sunday are at 9:30 and 11:30 p.m., with a third set tomorrow night at 1 a.m.; cover charge is $20 with a $10 minimum. No credit cards (Ratliff).
 
PAUL WINTER, Cathedral of St. John the Divine, 1071 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 662-2133. In the cathedral's annual New Year's Eve concert, hopes for peace are expressed in New Age music with multicultural ambitions. The Paul Winter Consort plays one-world music full of reassurance, good intentions and candy-coated exoticism. It shares the stage with the African-style Forces of Nature Dance Company and with Madafo Lloyd Wilson. The concert begins tonight at 7:30; tickets are $75 to $100 (Pareles).
 
BERNIE WORRELL AND THE WOO WARRIORS, Grange Hall, 50 Commerce Street, at Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-5246. As the keyboardist in Parliament-Funkadelic, Bernie Worrell put the oozing, organic textures in the P-Funk groove machine. He can take credit for the slow-bubbling synthesizer bass lines that are still ubiquitous in hip-hop and rhythm-and-blues; he also has an encompassing knowledge of jazz, funk, gospel and rock that he tosses around lightly. Seatings tonight are at 10, 10:30 and 11. Admission, with dinner, is $150 (Pareles).
 
* JOHN ZORN'S MASADA, MARC RIBOT Y LOS CUBANOS POSTIZOS, CYRO BAPTISTA'S BEAT THE DONKEY, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503. Masada is a collection of 205 klezmer-tinged tunes by John Zorn, who oversees various ensembles that play them, including a quartet that recalls Ornette Coleman's pianoless lineups. With Joey Baron on drums, Greg Cohen on bass, Dave Douglas on trumpet and Mr. Zorn on alto-saxophone, Masada moves from the pulse of dance music to modal Middle Eastern inflections to Romantic filigree. Less fragmented and more melodic than most of Mr. Zorn's music, Masada finds connections to Jewish tradition everywhere. The guitarist Marc Ribot started Los Cubanos Postizos to play songs he loved from Cuba in the 1940's and 50's, from the repertory of Arsenio Rodriguez; he honors the tunes, but he isn't afraid to add some downtown clank and down-home twang in his solos. Cyro Baptista is a Brazilian percussionist who is fond of melody and humor as well as rhythm. Mr. Baptista's "Vira Loucos," an album that reclaimed and utterly transformed the Brazilian folk tunes once adapted by Heitor Villa-Lobos, featured Mr. Ribot and was produced by Mr. Zorn; they may well collaborate again. The triple bill appears tonight at 6:30, with tickets at $45, and at 10:30, for $65 (including a Champagne toast). Tickets for both shows include admission to Sub-Tonic with the D.J. Toshio Kajiwara (Pareles).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michelle Shocked is performing tonight at the Bottom Line. (Rahav Segev); Tommy Flanagan is appearing all weekend at the Jazz Standard. (Jack Vartoogian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (50%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (50%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



731 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 2; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF

BYLINE: By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:

Of Holidays Not So Happy
It may just be a quirk of the calendar or a legitimate millennial dread, but this holiday season has proved to be far gloomier than expected for many Broadway shows. 
 A year after record-breaking box office and packed-to-the-rafters audiences, Broadway had one of its slowest-selling weeks of the year last week, with big drops in grosses and attendance.
For the week that ended on Sunday, 18 Broadway shows were playing to under 60 percent of capacity, including three at under 30 percent. The demoralizing effect of playing to a half-empty house must have been particularly acute at the cavernous 1,933-seat Gershwin Theater, where "Tango Argentino" was playing to 27 percent of capacity, or an average of 530 people a night.
In blunt economic terms, the situation was even harsher. Grosses for the week were down $2.6 million from a year earlier, when the industry pulled in just over $14 million that week. Attendance during Christmas week this year was off by nearly 50,000. The holidays are usually one of Broadway's happiest times as entertainment-starved tourists and family-weary locals seek out even the weakest shows. Last year every show on Broadway saw a bump in business during New Year's week, even such soon-to-die spectacles as "On the Town" and "Parade."
The sluggish sales were especially hard on smaller shows, which need big holiday sales. "This is always, far and away, one of the strongest weeks of the year," said David Richenthal, producer of "The Price." "This year, it's a near-disaster."
Theater executives said there were three culprits: the calendar, the countdown and the cut-rate shopper. First, there was the timing of Christmas and New Year's: both holidays fell on Saturday and their eves on Friday. Weekend nights, of course, are usually big moneymakers for Broadway, but this year most shows canceled on Christmas Eve.
Tonight all of Broadway is dark, except for the home of "Marie Christine," the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center, which is at West 66th Street and thus will be spared the crush of revelers in Times Square. (It will be the first time since the assassination of President John F. Kennedy that the industry has so dimmed its bulbs.) Most of performances canceled this month were rescheduled for Monday nights or weekday matinees, but matinees, falling during work hours, are less popular and harder to attend.
"It's the case of the vanishing holiday week," said Jed Bernstein, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, the Broadway trade group.
Mr. Bernstein said that Broadway was being affected by the same ambivalence or apprehension that has muted millennial sales in the entertainment and travel industries worldwide. "Whether it be Y2K or what have you, people are feeling they want to stay at home," he said. That means fewer tourists in seats.
Finally, producers say many ticket buyers are taking advantage of the peculiar schedules to pick up half-price tickets at the last minute. That assertion was borne out by figures from the Theater Development Fund TKTS Booth in Times Square, where ticket sales were up 27 percent from the same holiday period last year. On Wednesday afternoon, large crowds rerouted because of Times Square preparations spilled up and down Seventh Avenue and Broadway. There is hope, of course, that the numbers will be better when this week's sales are counted.
 
Open and Shut
All right, all right, a few milestones to note. The last show to open this century is "Much Ado About Everything!" by Jackie Mason, who opened last night and must love having the title. And the last closing will be "Epic Proportions," which folded on Dec. 19 and whose producers can't be happy about it.
And the hottest ticket, at least as the numbers go, is still "The Lion King," which enters its 26th month at the top of the box office heap. When nearly everything else was down last week, it grossed over $1 million.
 
A Chariot Awaited
The last time Broadway watched a century pass, electric light was all the rage, copyrights for playwrights were a new concept and the hottest show in town featured eight live horses in a live chariot race. The play? You guessed it: "Ben-Hur."
The production, a six-act extravaganza, opened on Nov. 29, 1899, at the Broadway Theater, the same place where that famous helicopter (in "Miss Saigon") would land nearly 92 years later.
Based on the novel by Lew Wallace, "Ben-Hur" was the brainchild of producers who evidently figured you couldn't miss with a show where the men and the women wore short skirts. Just to back up the bet, however, producers invested in 120,000 square feet of scenery, a live camel (and two fake ones) and what the writer William W. Ellsworth called "one of the greatest stage contrivances of our day": an eight-part treadmill complete with a rolling panorama of a Roman stadium to simulate Ben-Hur's staggering victory over the evil Messala.
It worked like this, according to Bernard Hewitt's "Theater U.S.A.: 1668 to 1957," a history of American theater. Behind a darkened scrim, each of the horses was led onto a separate treadmill activated by the animal's running. Equipped with whips and racing skirts, the actors playing Ben-Hur and Messala climbed into actual chariots and started, well, whipping the horses to run. And run they did.
When the sound built to a fever pitch, the scrim flew up, exposing a chariot race in full stride. As the panoramas rolled, Messala's treadmills were slowly shifted upstage so that the Ben-Hur chariot would appear to be gaining. In the finale, the wheels were pulled off Messala's chariot, the horses reared, and the lights fell.
Now, that's theater.
The illusion helped seal the show's popularity. "Panoramic, pictorial, musical, terpsichorean, religious," Edward A. Dithmar wrote in The New York Times.
"Ben-Hur" ran out the season at the Broadway and later became a favorite on the road. Then the motion pictures came along, of course, and made those elaborate treadmills extinct.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The last show of a different century: A scene from "Ben-Hur," a six-act extravaganza that opened on Nov. 29, 1899, at the Broadway Theater. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: JACKIE MASON: MUCH ADO ABOUT EVERYTHING; EPIC PROPORTIONS (PLAY); BEN-HUR (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (75%); RETAIL SALES (69%); ASSASSINATION (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE JOHN F KENNEDY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



732 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Labor Market Even Tighter As Jobless Claims Decline

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Fewer workers are seeking jobless benefits than at any time in more than a quarter-century, government figures showed today.
The number of new claims fell by 9,000, to 274,000, in the week that ended on Dec. 25, the Labor Department said. That brought the four-week average, a less volatile gauge, down to 279,750 last week, the lowest since Dec. 15, 1973. The average for the entire year is also likely to be the lowest in 26 years. 
 "There are no signs of an unraveling of this tight labor market," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist at the Argus Research Corporation in New York. "This is good for the consumer, and this is good for the economy."
The weekly figures reinforce analysts' projections that the nation's unemployment rate in December will remain at its lowest in almost 30 years at 4.1 percent for the third consecutive month.
A separate report today by purchasing executives showed that manufacturing in the Midwest expanded in December, while fewer companies reported being charged higher prices.
The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its monthly index fell to 54.6 this month from 56.8 in November. Readings above 50 mean that factories are reporting increased business. The index of prices paid for raw materials fell to 65.5 from 70.9.
Central bankers have expressed concern about the diminishing supply of workers, reflected in monthly figures showing that job growth has slowed even as the unemployment rate has declined. Almost 2.7 million jobs have been added so far this year, compared with 2.9 million for all of last year. Increased labor demand can drive up costs, leaving companies to decide whether they can pass the added expense to customers.
Jobs are being created on all fronts: manufacturing, computers and food service. General Motors, the world's largest automaker, said earlier this month that it would create 1,000 jobs in North Carolina by the end of next year with a new call center for its OnStar in-vehicle information service.
The Unisys Corporation, the computer services company, plans to expand its work force by 11 percent next year, to better challenge I.B.M. in installing and maintaining computer networks.
Unisys plans to hire 7,000 people; accounting for normal attrition, that will add about 4,000 employees to its force. About 85 percent of the new employees will work for the company's services business, Larry Weinbach, the chief executive at Unisys, said in an interview. The rest will work in computer manufacturing.
The new jobs come on top of 7,000 people that Unisys hired this year, bringing its global work force to 35,000. Many of the new employees will be technicians who install computers and work with customers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (82%); UIS (SWX) (82%); UIS (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNISYS CORP (82%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (63%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (53%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



733 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: By Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: DRUG CHIEF'S WIDOW INDICTED
A judge has indicted the widow of Pablo Escobar, once leader of Colombia's Medellin drug cartel, on charges of money laundering and froze $10 million of her assets. Prosecutors said Victoria Henao Vallejos has led a money laundering organization in Argentina since she arrived in Buenos Aires almost two years ago using an alias granted by Colombia through a witness protection program. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
CHILE: EX-PINOCHET AIDES WARNED
The foreign ministry warned 36 former aides to Gen. Augusto Pinochet not to leave Chile, telling them that the Spanish judge who issued the warrant for the former dictator's arrest in London is now planning to prosecute them as well. Foreign Minister Juan Gabriel Valdes told the officials, mostly high-ranking retired military officers, that the government could not protect them from prosecution if they left the country. Clifford Krauss (NYT) 

MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: BUDGET APPROVED
Parliament approved a $55 billion budget for 2000, giving Prime Minister Ehud Barak a domestic political victory before he departs for further peace talks with Syria in the United States next week. Despite threatened defections, most of Mr. Barak's 68-member coalition united behind the fiscally stringent spending plan. The budget is expected to reduce the public sector deficit to 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product from an estimated 3 percent of the G.D.P. in 1999. William A. Orme Jr. (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
FRANCE: BEEF CASE TO COURT
The European Commission and France have decided to take their battle over lifting a ban on British beef to the European Court of Justice. After imposing a ban in 1996 because of mad cow disease, the commission lifted it last summer. But France refused to go along with the decision and efforts to negotiate have failed. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
SERBIA: OPPOSITION REBUFFED
Belgrade's prosecutor rejected charges that the secret police plotted to kill the opposition leader Vuk Draskovic in October. His party, the Serbian Renewal Movement, said the secret services planned the crash of a truck into a car in which Mr. Draskovic rode with his brother-in-law, who died along with three bodyguards. In the official newspaper Politika, the prosecutor's office said "there is no evidence" the secret services had any link to the crash. Steven Erlanger (NYT)
 
SERBIA: 3 JUDGES FIRED
A decision by the Serbian Parliament to fire three judges was condemned by the Serbian Chamber of Lawyers as unconstitutional, unlawful and an effort to undermine the judiciary's independence. The dismissals, without explanation, "could have a huge impact on the system of the separation of powers and affect the independence of judges," the chamber president, Milan Vujin, said at a Belgrade news conference. Steven Erlanger (NYT)
 
TURKEY: OCALAN APPEAL REJECTED
A chief prosecutor refused to overturn the death sentence against Abdullah Ocalan, rejecting the Kurdish rebel leader's final appeal in Turkish courts. But Mr. Ocalan's lawyers are also appealing the case to the European Court for Human Rights, which has asked Turkey not to go ahead until it has reviewed the case. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: JOHN MAJOR POUNDS TORIES
The Conservative Party's headaches worsened as former Prime Minister John Major broke ranks and attacked its "suicidal" shift to the right wing. Mr. Major's remarks, in The Spectator, follow an attack by the former Conservative chancellor, Kenneth Clarke, who told the BBC the party "has not yet found its way in opposition." Sarah Lyall (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA: PRESIDENT FEARS FOR EYE
The recently re-elected president of Sri Lanka, Chandrika Kumaratunga, told the BBC that she may lose her eye as a result of a suicide bomb attack during a campaign appearance. The attack was believed to have been the work of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, who have been fighting for a separate Tamil homeland. "Somehow I have been spared to live to talk of love and forgiveness," she said. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
VIETNAM: PACT WITH CHINA
Vietnam and China signed a border treaty in Hanoi, more than two decades after the two Communist neighbors clashed in early 1979. The agreement settles all outstanding disputes along the two countries' common 740-mile border, eight years after normal relations were restored in 1991. (Agence France-Presse)
 
TAIWAN: TIES WITH PALAU
Taiwan said it was exchanging embassies with the Pacific island nation of Palau, raising to 29 the number of states defying China's diplomatic embargo to recognize the Nationalist-ruled island. Foreign Minister Chen Chien-jen said agreements had been signed in Palau, a former American protectorate in the Marianas. The two islands have extensive tourism ties and signed an aviation pact on Dec. 2 formalizing regular direct flights. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ETHIOPIA: DROUGHT THREATENS THOUSANDS
More than 994,000 people in drought-stricken southeast Ethiopia need urgent food aid, the country's Federal Commission for Disaster Prevention said. The affected population lives in seven areas of the ethnic Somali region, the agency was quoted by the official press as saying. "The drought in the state is getting worse," it said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CONGO REPUBLIC: REBEL ACCORD
Rebels have agreed to a new peace accord after an amnesty offer from President Denis Sassou Nguesso following a year of fighting with government forces backed by Angola. The rebel militias were formed by an ousted president and prime minister. (Agence France-Presse)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SERBIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CHILE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); WITNESS PROTECTION (57%); WITNESS PROTECTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (57%); WITNESS PROTECTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SERBIA (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CHILE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); CARTELS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); WITNESSES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); BEEF (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); MEATS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (64%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



734 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Remembering Wealth: Life in Post-Crash Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
My New Year's resolution is to file my columns early. This one was written 10 years before deadline. SAN JOSE, Calif., Dec. 30, 2009
ONLY a decade ago, the Silicon Valley of California was viewed as technology's promised land, a place where bungalows cost $1 million and even the youngest computer programmer had stock options that seemed likely to be worth millions soon. 
 But now, years after the Internet crash of 2003, it has become a region of jealousies and recriminations. Working relationships were poisoned when employees learned that top executives secretly hedged their positions, and thus did not suffer. Banks sued formerly wealthy entrepreneurs, saying they hid assets to avoid paying their debts.
All that has happened even though many of the Valley's technology companies remain very successful, and the Internet-based economy continues to gain at the expense of the older bricks-and-mortar economy. But few of the companies have lived up to the high expectations that were factored into stock prices before they fell. Many of the highest fliers have vanished from the landscape, either going out of business or being acquired by competitors for a fraction of the prices their shares once fetched.
Among the survivors, employees scarred by the collapsing value of their stock options now prefer the certainty of higher salaries.
It is the fate of the once-bountiful stock options that has most determined the current pecking order in Silicon Valley. At the top are those who cashed in their options before the fall. Next come those who worked for companies that prospered. Their salaries have helped to offset the paper losses, and many companies repriced their options after prices fell, thus saving some value for the employees, before angry shareholders forced a halt to that practice.
At the bottom, and perhaps the largest group, are those who did not cash out and whose companies were not among the winners. While many of them landed jobs at other companies, their wealth has vanished and some have lost their homes. Housing prices fell sharply after the options lost value, and have only recently begun to recover. Some financial institutions were severely damaged when loans secured by stock options became uncollectible.
The inevitable jealousies reflect the seeming randomness of success and failure. There are tales of employees who did poor jobs but ended up rich, while their more competent and creative neighbors went bankrupt. Younger engineers are angry that they have no chance for the quick wealth their elders gained, and scornful of those who lost it.
Nationally, the effect on the economy has not been as great as was feared. While some other regions with big stakes in the Internet economy were hurt, most notably Seattle and New York City, the effect on most of the country was limited. Consumers cut back, but not by as much as was expected considering the declining value of investment portfolios. Growth since 2003 has been far higher than it was in Japan in the years after that country's bubble burst in 1990. In part, that was because American nontechnology stocks were not nearly as overvalued.
Investors have grown much more cautious. That is reflected in the diminished amount of capital available for start-ups, and in other ways as well. Even Microsoft, which became the world's most valuable company long before it paid its first dividend in 2004, now finds that it must raise its payout every year to attract investors.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph shows TheStreet.com Internet index since 1998.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET STOCK OPTIONS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



735 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Extra Cash Awaits a Rush That Has Not Materialized
For months, American banks and regulators have been bracing themselves for a year-end rush of withdrawals by depositors fearful that Year 2000 computer problems might cause automated teller machines to fail or credit card transactions to be rejected.
In the last several months, extra money has been printed and sent to banks in the United States and abroad. Normally, about $150 billion in cash sits in the Federal Reserve and United States bank vaults worldwide. But an extra $70 billion has been printed and stored in vaults this year, and there it sits. Several of the country's largest banks say they have not experienced unusual demand for cash at their branches or teller machines. Page A1. 
 
Stocks Pull Back From Records
Stocks drifted lower, with most market gauges slipping back from the records set on Wednesday. Early gains evaporated as demand waned in the last full session of 1999. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.80 points, to 11,452.86. Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Nasdaq composite index finished with a modest loss of 4.59 points but remained above the 4,000 level at 4,036.87. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.01 points, to 1,464.47. In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 30-year issue fell to 6.42 percent from 6.44 percent on Wednesday. C6.
 
Bird Dispute Worries Utilities
The criminal prosecution of Moon Lake Electric, a Utah utility company, for causing the deaths of birds has raised concerns among electric companies, particularly in the West. Utilities say they could face large expenses, possibly running into millions of dollars, if they are forced to prevent the electrocutions. C2.
 
Work Becomes Holiday Power Sign
During any other holiday season, power is measured by the number of party invitations received and the relative hipness of one's vacation plans. But in an odd twist in the corporate power equation, one that will be played out all over Manhattan tonight, the most important people in an organization are the ones who will be working. B1.
 
26-Year Low for New Jobless Claims
Fewer workers are seeking jobless benefits than at any time in more than a quarter-century. The number of new claims fell by 9,000, to 274,000, in the week that ended on Dec. 25. That brought the four-week average down to 279,750 last week, the lowest since Dec. 15, 1973. A separate report by purchasing executives showed that manufacturing in the Midwest expanded in December, while fewer companies reported being charged higher prices. C8.
 
Singapore Air Capitalizes on Image
A deal by Singapore Airlines to acquire a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic ends a long search to expand its route network. Analysts attribute the growth in part to a management that has never reported a loss and carries no debt. But equally important has been the airline's ability to parlay its image -- featuring the politically incorrect "Singapore Girl" flight attendants --into an award-winning global reputation for service and safety. C4.
 
Investors Clear Holzmann Bailout
Shareholders of Philipp Holzmann, the troubled German construction conglomerate, approved a $2.2 billion bailout plan, but not before some accused the chairman of the company's supervisory board, Carl von Boehm-Bezing, of being incompetent and self-serving. Mr. Boehm-Bezing, who is also a Deutsche Bank executive, attributed the problems almost entirely to the company's old management, which was dismissed two years ago during a previous bailout. C4.
 
Court Approves MetLife Settlement
A federal court in Pittsburgh has approved a $1.7 billion payment to policyholders of Metropolitan Life Insurance to settle allegations of deceptive sales practices. C6.
 
Financial Markets to Close Early
Markets in Canada and the United States will be open for a half day of trading today, closing at 1 p.m. Eastern time for the New Year's holiday. Many European and Asian markets will be closed today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,452.86 down 31.80
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.42% down 0.02
The euro -- $1.008 up 0.003
The dollar -- 102.50 yen up 0.31
 
Graph shows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (85%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (85%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); MILLENNIUM (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); AIRLINES (60%); ACQUISITIONS (60%); CREDIT CARDS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



736 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Strategist Remains Bullish, Though Less So, for 2000

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Abby Joseph Cohen, one of Wall Street's most influential strategists, said yesterday that the stock market's stunning 1999 ascent had turned her into a regular bull.
"I used to be a superbull. Now I'm just a bull," the chief United States market strategist for Goldman Sachs said in an interview on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 
 For 2000, Ms. Cohen is forecasting single-digit percentage gains for blue-chip stocks, in contrast to the double-digit percentile advances the Dow Jones industrial average registered in each of the last five years, including 1999.
Ms. Cohen spoke a day after the Nasdaq composite index closed at more than 4,000 points for the first time, up 84 percent for 1999.
"What we're telling our portfolio manager clients is that technology deserves to be a core holding. That said, 'we're not as super-enthusiastic because they're not as cheap,' " as at the start of 1999, she said, when they were undervalued.
In the past, she said, many investors treated technology as a cyclical industry when it deserved better. She noted that technology-related capital spending had quadrupled as a percentage of United States gross domestic product.
"In 1999, investors said 'Eureka.' It's a secular industry that's brought about an enormous structural change," she said. "This was an important year of inflection. Technology stocks finally got some respect."
She said that the sector was now fairly valued. "People should not have just one or two names, but a handful. And it should not be the driving force in a portfolio," she said.
Ms. Cohen has won open praise from floor traders and gained the esteem of Wall Street with the accuracy of her bullish forecasts and her down-to-earth style.
She was ranked the top portfolio strategist three years running in the Institutional Investor survey, and as the ninth-most powerful woman in the world by Fortune magazine, and yet she continues to take the bus to work from her home in Queens.
At the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Ms. Cohen was surrounded by her family as she formally closed the trading session. And her own exuberance was in evidence as the gavel she used to strike the end of trading smashed in half.
The stock market did not cooperate with the occasion, however. For the day, the Nasdaq and Dow closed with modest losses. The Dow, at 11,452.86, is now up nearly 25 percent for 1999.
But the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the subject of intense research by Ms. Cohen, edged up to a record 1,464.47. It is now up more than 19 percent for the year.
For 2000, Ms. Cohen expects more moderate gains with the S.& P. 500 closing out 2000 at 1,525 points. Her Dow target is 12,300.
At this point, it looks like Ms. Cohen may get caught in the same situation as last year, when, she said, "I thought it would be a good year, but it turned out to be a great year."
When she made her 2000 forecasts in mid-December, her S.& P. target suggested an 8 percent gain for next year. Two weeks later, her forecast would represent just a 4 percent gain because the index has risen.
This year, Ms. Cohen ratcheted up her targets as the months progressed. In 1999, "everyone thought the economy was in trouble," she said. "We were seen as extremely aggressive. In 2000, I think the consensus is closer to being right.
"We have stated that if there is a risk to our forecasts, it's likely that they are too low, because the global economy get stronger," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ABBY JOSEPH ABBY JOSEPH COHEN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



737 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Banks Stocked Up on Cash But Hoarders Stayed Away

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
For months, American banks and regulators have been bracing for a year-end rush of withdrawals by depositors fearful that Year 2000 computer problems might cause teller machines to fail or credit card transactions to be rejected.
Piles of extra money have been printed by the federal government and shipped to banks here and abroad. Normally, about $150 billion in cash sits in the Federal Reserve and American bank vaults worldwide. But this year an extra $70 billion -- or about $255 for each man, woman and child in the United States -- has been printed, dispatched by planes and armored cars and stored in vaults, awaiting the onslaught. 
 And there it sits.
Several of the country's largest banks say they have not experienced unusual demand for cash at their branches or automated teller machines. On some days recently, these banks said, cash demand has been lower than it was a year ago.
"Up to date, we have seen no increased demand for cash," said Thomas Sladowski, vice president in charge of Chase Manhattan's automated teller machine network. "We're all hoping this will be the biggest nonevent of the century."
And if all that cash ultimately is not needed, banks will return it to the government, to be recirculated some day or shredded and left in landfills.
The complacency about cash is just the latest sign that the public is taking the prospect of Year 2000 computer disruptions in stride. Of course, problems could yet occur, sending depositors flocking to their local branches. Bankers and regulators acknowledge this, noting that even in a world grown accustomed to the pleasures of plastic credit cards, there is nothing quite as reassuring as cold hard cash. "The biggest variable in the equation remains public perception," said Doug Tillett, a spokesman with the New York Federal Reserve. "We really don't know how people will react."
So far, there has been little to give consumers pause, although flare-ups have occurred. On Tuesday, about 20,000 credit card terminals in Britain began to stall because of computer glitches, holding up holiday shoppers. A spokeswoman for HSBC Holdings, the large British bank that operates most of the terminals, said the devices could not recognize the year 2000 but that the problem would be resolved by Jan. 1.
Nonetheless, at least in the United States, bankers feel prepared for Year 2000 headaches and are satisfied that they have plenty of cash to dole out should people want it.
Simply getting all that cash into the system has been a challenge. Earlier this year, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department directed the Bureau of Engraving and Printing to begin printing the extra billions. And banks were directed by regulators to order more cash for their vaults.
Most of the $220 billion in reserve cash is held in Federal Reserve coffers around the country, awaiting orders from banks should they need it. A smaller portion, about $72 billion, is already in bank vaults, about $20 billion more than banks typically keep on hand this time of year.
So long as the reserves are not drawn down, the mere printing of extra cash has no inflationary effect. For banks, holding more of their assets in extra cash means that they can lend less and thus earn less money. So far analysts are not concerned that the impact on bank earnings or the economy itself will be substantial, as long as the need for extra wads of cash remains a short-term event.
If and when the all-clear is sounded, banks will quickly ship that pool of extra cash back to the Federal Reserve -- setting the vast conga line of planes and armored cars back in motion.
For its part, Chase has set up 27 special command centers to monitor its banking network 24 hours a day between Dec. 31 and Jan. 11. The bank even increased its paper supply in the event that a flurry of receipts or bank statements needed to be printed, and it has been funneling extra cash into its branches since October.
Chase, which is based in New York, said it planned for increased cash demand of 30 percent in October and November and an increase of 200 percent in December, but that none of that demand had materialized. Still, extra cash is in the branches, and that presents security concerns for Chase, other banks and the armored car companies that serve them.
Banks and armored car companies say they have bolstered security to protect this momentary cash hoard. "The holiday season is always tough, but with additional money out there we're putting more security on the street and around our cars," said Kevin Dunbar, chief operating officer of Dunbar Armored, an armored car company that operates from 80 locations around the country.
Banks also have been simulating crises to prepare themselves for a range of computer-related disasters, not just a run on cash. Wells Fargo, the large San Francisco bank, has completed three practice runs in which its personnel had to negotiate 25 potential problems. The last one was completed a month ago and Wells said it had "developed a strong sense of confidence" about its ability to handle anything that arises as 2000 arrives.
Some banks already have had a taste of crisis management. In the fall, Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., had to rush cash to branches on the Atlantic coast so depositors could get their money before evacuating in advance of a hurricane. That event involved a rapid series of armored car trips to the coast and back -- excellent preparation, a spokeswoman said, for any Y2K hysteria that might emerge.
Oversight for Citigroup, one of the largest and most ubiquitous financial institutions in the world, is a tad more complex. The bank said it had seen no heightened cash withdrawals at its global branches -- but it has to monitor activity in 100 countries. To do that, Citigroup has set up a special central command center in an undisclosed location in the United States. Information about the bank's activities is fed to that center from 15 regional command centers in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America.
Most banks in the United States, meanwhile, are just keeping their fingers crossed. And counting on consumers to keep their heads.
"We've tried to make it clear to people that the safest place for your money is in the bank," said Steve Dishart, a spokesman for Mellon Bank of Pittsburgh. "People seem to be taking that at face value."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Making Enough to Go Around"
Earlier this year, the government realized it might be facing a Year 2000 crisis that had nothing to do with computers: people might hoard cash as the turn of the century approached because they were afraid of a catastrophe. To prevent a disaster, the government decided to print and distribute $70 billion to add to the $150 billion already in reserves. Here is how it was done.
 
GETTING THE MONEY INTO CIRCULATION
 
1. An order was sent to the Treasury Department's Bureau of Engraving and Printing to print money -- 11 billion bills in all.
 
2. The bills were distributed to processing centers run by the Federal Reserve's 12 district banks.
 
3. Commercial banks, which were reminded to have enough cash on hand, ordered currency from the Federal Reserve.
 
4. The banks' accounts with the Federal Reserve were debited and the currency was shipped to each bank.
 
5. Customers who were worried could withdraw more money than usual.
 
TAKING THE MONEY OUT OF CIRCULATION
 
1. If customers find they do not need extra cash, they are likely to redeposit some of it.
 
2. Banks may end up with too much cash on hand and return some of it to the Federal Reserve.
 
3. Most of the bills that are returned will be stored in the Federal Reserve distribution centers.
 
4. Some bills that are no longer any good will be shredded. Most will go into landfills. (Illustrations by Mark Kseniak)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 0005 (HKSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (58%); BUREAU OF ENGRAVING & PRINTING (59%); BUREAU OF ENGRAVING & PRINTING (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ENGRAVING & PRINTING (59%); BUREAU OF ENGRAVING & PRINTING (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; CURRENCY; AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (93%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (89%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (58%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (58%); LANDFILLS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



738 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: A Lavish Run Leaves Forbes Laboring for Nation's Notice

SERIES: STATE OF THE CAMPAIGN/Steve Forbes

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
On late-night television last week, David Letterman and Tom Brokaw were bantering about the presidential candidates. Mr. Letterman was repeatedly ridiculing George W. Bush and jokes were flying over the Al Gore-Bill Bradley debate over whether to debate every week. Even John McCain took some hits over his temper.
But nowhere in this exchange was any mention made of another presidential candidate, the Republican Steve Forbes, even if in jest. 
 Despite spending $16.3 million of his own money so far in this campaign, on top of the $37 million on his failed 1996 presidential effort, Mr. Forbes is in danger of becoming an inconsequential candidate, someone who cannot even be the butt of a joke on late-night TV.
Even as he doggedly crosses the primary states of New Hampshire, Iowa and South Carolina in his "New Birth of Freedom" bus cavalcade, Mr. Forbes has failed to generate strong poll numbers, grass-roots enthusiasm or a national identity -- anything to indicate he might have a chance of reaching his goal.
"Languishing is the best term for his campaign," said Larry J. Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia. "The irony is that Forbes is a much better candidate than he was four years ago and he has finally broken into the inner circle of conservatives. And yet he has made very little progress in this election and is worse off today than he was at this point four years ago."
Four years ago, Mr. Forbes entered the Republican primaries late in the game and, and after gaining a reputation as a spoiler for his harsh attacks on Bob Dole and earning a small, but respectable showing, he calculated that the 2000 election might just be his moment.
He figured that, with unlimited money from his $440 million fortune, and a broadened conservative message that incorporated social issues as well as his signature call for an overhaul of the tax code, he could appeal to the right wing of the Republican Party and position himself an alternative to the front-runner, Governor Bush of Texas, carrying on in the Reagan tradition while Mr. Bush tried to steer the party to more centrist ground.
But it has not turned out that way.
"I think his message is a correct one," said Rich Galen, a former aide to Newt Gingrich and now a conservative columnist. "But it might be the wrong messenger. Or it is the right message but for a different time. And I don't see how Forbes's people can pull it out. He's got a lot of smart people on his campaign staff, and he is spending a ton of money. But he needs some kind of a remarkable breakthrough, and there's nothing to suggest that will happen."
Still, with his enormous resources, his willingness to do battle in every primary state and his record of harsh television advertisements against fellow Republicans, Mr. Forbes remains a force within his party, though frequently as a spoiler.
While he may not win, he is able to inflict damage on other candidates: He is forcing Mr. Bush to spend time and money in Iowa, a state Mr. Bush would sweep handily if not for Mr. Forbes, and Mr. Forbes has upped the ante on campaign costs for all Republicans with his lavish spending.
Moreover, Republicans remember Mr. Forbes's harsh attack advertisements against Bob Dole in Iowa four years ago that left Mr. Dole victorious but wounded, and are fearful that Mr. Forbes might do it again closer to the Jan. 24 Iowa caucus. So far, Mr. Forbes has restrained himself, but Mr. Galen said that if Mr. Forbes fell too far behind by mid-January, that might change.
"He might just turn his mother's picture to the wall and go for it," Mr. Galen said.
In New Hampshire, the latest polls show Mr. Forbes, a publishing executive from New Jersey, barely in double-digit territory, far behind Mr. Bush and Senator McCain of Arizona. In Iowa, where Mr. Forbes came in second in a highly promoted straw poll in August, with 20 percent of the vote, recent polls show him with about the same amount of support.
But in Iowa, polls are not always reliable, given that votes are taken in open public caucuses, and a candidate with a strong organization like Mr. Forbes's can come up with a surprise. That said, Mr. Bush is also well organized and, polls show, a lot more popular with Iowa voters.
In South Carolina, the race is between Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain, with Mr. Forbes not breaking into double digits, despite much campaigning there.
Still, the Forbes staff remains optimistic. William Dal Col, the Forbes campaign manager, predicts that if Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain start taking shots at each other in New Hampshire, then the large number of independent voters could become disgusted and switch to Mr. Forbes, who, Mr. Dal Col predicted, could take up to 30 percent of the New Hampshire vote.
In Iowa, Mr. Dal Col predicts that the strong Forbes organization will turn out enough voters on the caucus night to put Mr. Forbes "in a solid second place."
If all that does not happen? "We just keep running," Mr. Dal Col said. "We are prepared to go through with this. It's a marathon and we will continue to be in the race."
Mr. Forbes has also been hurt by the appearance on the primary scene of Mr. McCain, considered far too much of a maverick by conservative Republicans. As a result, many conservatives have flocked to Mr. Bush, whom they find acceptable on their scorecards and, more important, potentially electable. After having backed losing candidates like Patrick J. Buchanan and Pat Robertson, many Republican conservatives are now trading ideological purity for viability.
"Part of why Forbes is doing so poorly is the Bush juggernaut and the other part is the McCain phenomenon," Mr. Sabato of University of Virginia said. "He's neither, while the juggernaut and the phenomenon are filling the television screens. And social conservatives are badly divided this time. They need a winner this time because they are tired of losing. So they have signed onto Bush out of desperation."
In addition, Mr. Forbes's conservative economic message -- a call for a flat tax, less government and the ouster of the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan -- is proving to be a tough sell in one of the most robust economic cycles in this century. With the federal budget balanced, interest rates falling, the stock market hitting record highs and federal taxes having been lowered, it is hard for Mr. Forbes to make much headway with his call for drastic economic reform.
"We are in peace, prosperity and 4.2 percent unemployment," said Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist and chief executive of Policy Impact Communications, a Washington lobbying firm. "The worst harbinger for Forbes right now is not the polling data, but the strength of the retail sales figures this Christmas."
Then, there is Mr. Forbes himself, a man who has never held public office, who remains awkward in debates and whose campaigning skills, while much improved, are still stiff.
Despite this, Mr. Forbes is on the road, almost nonstop. Not only is he campaigning in New Hampshire and Iowa, but also in Alaska, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida and South Carolina, almost any state with a primary. And his television advertisements and two-bus caravan of blaring music and campaign workers in Forbes uniforms have become fixtures in the early primary states.
In virtually all his presentations, Mr. Forbes remains wedded to his stump speech, rarely straying from his script, even down to the highly practiced laugh lines. He limits his contact with reporters to tightly controlled 15-minute sessions, and seems to hold his supporters at a distance.
In New Hampshire, for instance, while campaigning one chilly morning at the Belmont Restaurant in Manchester, a place where nearly every presidential candidate has gone to shake hands, Mr. Forbes awkwardly went around the room to introduce himself while diners munched on their toast and eggs.
And, when he was finished, rather than sit down at one of the large communal tables filled with diners and engage them in a discussion, something nearly every politician has done, he quietly sat down at a table to eat with his wife, Sabina, and two local supporters, seemingly oblivious to everyone else in the restaurant.
While Mr. McCain enjoys spending large amounts of time on the campaign trail talking to reporters or while Mr. Bush hardly passes supporters without touching them and giving them a squeeze, Mr. Forbes keeps himself closeted off on the campaign trail, riding on a separate bus from the press and his supporters, except for the occasional brief interview or formal news conference.
"Presidential politics is almost as much about personality as policy," said Mr. Gillespie, the Republican strategist. "I think it is difficult for voters to relate to Steve Forbes, partly because of his moneyed background and also because of his style. His style is not consistent with the American public's perception of the U.S. presidency."
Even in debates, Mr. Forbes, who was the first candidate to come out swinging against Mr. Bush, has since seen his role shrink as more air time is given to Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush -- so much so that the Forbes campaign has been complaining that moderators asked him fewer questions by half than these two candidates in the last debate, which was moderated by Mr. Brokaw in New Hampshire.
And, perhaps one of the cleverest, and biggest, laugh-getters of the current series of debates was a line about Mr. Forbes, not by him. In a Des Moines debate two weeks ago, Mr. Forbes said of Democratic proposals, "That usually means hold your wallet." A rival Republican candidate, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, turned to Mr. Forbes and interjected, "Steve, I couldn't even lift your wallet is all I can say."
 
State of the Campaign
This is the last in a series of status reports on the campaigns of the top contenders for the Democratic and Republican nominations as they enter the primary season.
 
AT A GLANCE/The Forbes Campaign
 
HEADQUARTERS -- Alexandria, Va.
 
STAFF SIZE -- 110
 
CASH ON HAND -- The campaign cash balance as of Sept. 30, 1999, was $1.8 million. But since Mr. Forbes, with a net worth of over $400 million, is financing his own campaign, his cash resources are pretty much what he wants them to be. Since 1996, he has spent more than $53 million running for president.
 
TOP CAMPAIGN STAFF -- The political director is James Tobin, the former Northeast political director for the Republican National Committee. The campaign manager is William DalCol, who ran the Forbes presidential campaign in 1996 and was chief of staff for Jack F. Kemp's vice-presidential bid that year. The deputy campaign manager is Ruth Kistler, former deputy executive director of the National Republican Congressional Committee. The senior communications director is Greg Mueller, communications director for Patrick J. Buchanan's presidential campaigns in 1992 and 1996.
 
PROMINENT ADVISERS -- Caspar W. Weinberger, secretary of defense for President Ronald Reagan, on foreign policy, and Paul M. Weyrich, head of the Free Congress Foundation, on social policy. His economic advisers include Alvin Rabushka, a flat-tax theoretician at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University; Gary and Aldonna Robbins, former economists in the Reagan Treasury Department; Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist at CNBC.com; John Harrington, energy secretary in the Reagan administration, and Ken Blackwell, secretary of state in Ohio.
 
BIGGEST COUP -- Endorsement by The Manchester Union Leader, New Hampshire's largest newspaper, which calls him "God-fearing, respectful of innocent life, and determined to restore a sense of decency to the White House." At the same time, however, the editoral says Mr. Forbes "looks like a geek."
 
BIGGEST MISTAKE -- Still haunted by a 1996 decision to run scorched-earth television advertisements against Bob Dole, which hurt Mr. Dole among voters in general and tarred Mr. Forbes with the reputation as a spoiler in his own party.
 
CHALLENGE AHEAD -- Turning all that money into votes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite spending $16.3 million of his own money so far in this presidential campaign, Steve Forbes has failed to generate strong poll numbers. (Associated Press)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); TAX REFORM (50%); TAX LAW (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) DAVID LETTERMAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



739 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
What Women Wanted

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
The first female overachiever of this millennium would have been Freydis, the sister of Leif Ericson. Leif was quite the millennial man himself, having stumbled on North America around the year 1000. And when the first Norse settlement there was attacked, Freydis led the defense, despite her advanced pregnancy. "She took her breasts out and whetted the sword upon them. At that, the enemy became afraid and ran away," reported a Viking chronicler. Why, in the era of Xena and Buffy the Vampire Slayer, does this woman not have a TV series of her own?
I don't know if Freydis qualifies for one of the really great women of the last thousand years -- the thing with the sword was really her best moment. The inevitable nominees from the distant past would include Queen Elizabeth I, Joan of Arc and Shikibu Murasaki, whose "Tales of Genji" was the first realistic novel. My own favorite is Hildegard of Bingen, a 12th-century abbess, mystic and composer who went into a trance and levitated whenever a male authority figure tried to cross her. 
 What you notice about these women, and most of the other super-achieving females of the millennium, is how solitary they seem. The great things they did may have startled the world, or improved the lot of humanity, but they didn't open the way for other women to follow in their path. Wang Zhenui discovered the law of lunar eclipses in the 18th century, but that didn't create opportunities for future generations of Chinese women to become astronomers.
Closer to our own time, the great women no longer look quite so isolated. But many of them seem like disappointed figures, waiting for something that never arrived. Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, the 19th-century suffragists, understood that they'd probably die before women in America got the right to vote. But they did believe that when the day came, it would change everything for their sex from that time on. It didn't. "She would have been astounded we had to go through another women's movement," said Lynn Sherr, the author of "Failure Is Impossible," an Anthony biography.
We don't know the name of the first woman who looked down at her sleeping daughter and imagined her having the same chances as any boy. But we do know that she didn't get her wish. Women who fought for social change often believed they were on the brink of an era when they could make an impact on society without being the most spectacular strivers of their era. It didn't happen. During the French Revolution, women petitioned the National Assembly to remember to "abolish also the privileges of the male sex." The Assembly forgot.
It took the post-industrial revolution to create an economy in which the sexes might be able to compete equally, and it took a biological revolution to give us control of our bodies. A millennium ago women had the will to practice birth control, but the means were more than a little shaky. In Eastern Europe, protected sex in A.D. 1000 involved drinking a potion made of ground wolf penis, spitting into the mouth of a frog or eating bees. In Muslim Spain, where things were more sophisticated, women who wanted to avoid pregnancy were advised to leap up and down after the sexual act, then jump backwards nine times.
But once birth control became relatively simple and physical strength dwindled as a requirement for the world of work, society shifted so quickly you'd have thought the pressure of all those generations of isolated eccentrics and disappointed strivers was propelling things forward. When I was in high school, teachers were still warning us that girls couldn't be scientists. Now 40 percent of all graduate degrees go to women. Progress seems slow when you happen to be living it, but put in a millennial context, the speed takes your breath away.
Those of us who are professional complainers can tell you all the areas where we're still falling short. We fret that what was won might be taken away, and feel guilty about the gulf between our lives and those of women in places like Afghanistan. But the peculiar celebration of the turn of the calendar we're having this New Year's Eve gives us a chance to think about the obvious but incredible fact of how far we've come, and what we've seen in our own lifetimes. The liberation that women throughout history have fought for, or sometimes been unable to even imagine, occurred in the last blink of the millennium, for us.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); FEMINIST MOVEMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS MILLENNIUM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); WRITERS (68%); PETITIONS (62%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL ELIZABETH II (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



740 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2368 words

HEADLINE: Radical Islamic Network May Have Come to U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and CRAIG PYES 

 BODY:
Nearly four years later, all that remains of the shootout in Roubaix, France, is a facade of burned-out row houses in dull red brick, charred roof beams with leafy seedlings etched against the sky, and screens of cinder blocks sealing every doorway. Passers-by hastening through the rain to Friday prayers at a nearby mosque pay little heed to 59 Rue Henri Carette.
The inferno that erupted amid gunfire before dawn on March 29, 1996, killed four young men of Algerian origin wanted by the French police after a series of armed holdups and the killing of a motorist who resisted an effort to hijack his car. In a three-month helter-skelter of attacks on supermarkets and other targets, the Roubaix gang, operating like common hoodlums, netted barely $10,000. 
 But French investigations revealed something more menacing: that the Roubaix victims were part of a radical Islamic underground linked to the Armed Islamic Group, a guerrilla organization fighting an Islamic holy war against the military-dominated government in Algeria. The G.I.A., as the group is known by its French initials, is considered brutal, and is thought to be responsible for many of the 100,000 people, mostly civilians, who have died in the Algerian conflict.
The G.I.A. network, law-enforcement sources in France and elsewhere say, has long tentacles. While deeply rooted in Western Europe, especially in Belgium, Britain, France and Italy, it also has connections in Afghanistan and Turkey and, perhaps most important, in Bosnia, where a lawless environment during and after the war in the first half of the 1990's provided Islamic radicals with secure hideouts and access to Bosnian passports and weapons.
Now, the authorities say, there are signs that the Algerian connection may have reached the United States.
For years, associates of the young men who died in Roubaix were known to have extended their activities to Quebec, where relaxed immigration rules and the Algerians' familiarity with French made Canada's French-speaking province an inviting haven. Canadian and French law-enforcement agencies say they were aware of the Quebec operations and kept them under at least sporadic surveillance.
The G.I.A. is not known to have directed any of its operations at the United States over the last several years. But two weeks ago, the arrest of Ahmed Ressam, a 32-year-old Algerian who had been living in Montreal, by United States customs officials seemed to indicate that the Algerian underground had widened its field of operations.
According to a federal indictment, Mr. Ressam arrived in Port Angeles, Wash., on Dec. 14 off a ferry from Victoria, British Columbia, with bomb-making equipment in the trunk of his car.
Yesterday, a 31-year-old Algerian man was arrested in Brooklyn and charged with being an accomplice of Mr. Ressam in what federal officials contend was an elaborate terrorist plot.
Also yesterday, federal prosecutors asserted that Lucia Garofalo, a 35-year-old Canadian woman who was arrested on Dec. 19 on the Vermont border, belonged to the same G.I.A. cell as Mr. Ressam. It remains unclear whether Mr. Ressam and Ms. Garofalo were collaborating when they were arrested; the prosecutors provided no specific information.
Mr. Ressam, the man arrested in Washington State, has pleaded not guilty to many federal charges, including making false statements to United States customs officials, using a Canadian passport with a false name, smuggling explosives and carrying unregistered firearms. United States officials say he has disclosed little, leaving them to puzzle out what his target might have been, whether it was linked to the millennium celebrations, and whether he had associates who may still be at large in the United States.
For the moment, American officials are trying to figure out why the G.I.A. would plan a strike in the United States when its units in Algeria are reeling from offensives by the Algerian military, which appears to have the upper hand in the conflict. One theory is that Mr. Ressam and his associates may be part of a loose group of free-floating mujahadeen, or holy warriors, some Algerian, some not, who share a hatred of the United States and bomb-making skills that they honed as volunteers in the fighting in Afghanistan, Bosnia or Algeria.
Much about Mr. Ressam remains murky, but officials in Europe say that they have known about him for several years and that he is part of an international network of Islamic militants willing to use terror to promote their vision of an Islamic world order. Interviews with officials in Europe and the United States, along with scholars who specialize in Islamic radicalism, have also offered a broader picture of the ideology, tactics and targets of the Algerian underground, and of the G.I.A. in particular.
From these sources, scattered pieces of the jigsaw puzzle of Mr. Ressam's life can be assembled. Canadian investigators, for example, say that in 1998 he shared an apartment in Ville Anjou, a Montreal suburb, with Fateh Kamel, a 39-year-old Algerian with G.I.A. links who was jailed in France this year on charges of terrorist conspiracy.
Law-enforcement agencies on both sides of the Atlantic are focusing on Mr. Kamel. A French official said his Montreal telephone number was found in the address book of Christophe Caze, a 28-year-old medical school dropout from Lille, an industrial city next to Roubaix. Mr. Caze converted to Islam, fought with an international brigade of Muslim fighters in Bosnia in the early 1990's and then became leader of the Roubaix gang. After the 1996 shootout, Mr. Caze, fleeing into Belgium, was shot dead at a police roadblock.
French prosecutors say that Mr. Kamel was active in the G.I.A. support networks, and that he had links to the militants in Roubaix, although what these were remains unclear. One French official described him as the group's "spiritual leader." Another French official said the truth about his ties died with Mr. Caze.
"We can't say exactly what the role of Fateh Kamel was because Christophe Caze is dead, and he's the only one who knew," the official said.
French investigators, especially, have been galvanized by a G.I.A.-led campaign of violence in France, which included a plane hijacking in Algiers in 1994 that envisaged crashing the Air France jet into the Eiffel Tower, a disaster averted when French commandos stormed the plane in a stopover in Marseilles. In addition, there was a bombing of the Paris subway in 1995 that caused eight deaths, part of a four-month terror campaign that included other bombings.
The most audacious of the Roubaix group's ventures, a car bomb that was to have exploded in front of the police commissariat in Lille on March 28, 1996, spread alarm that the Algerian militants' activities might have broader targets that Algeria and France.
The bomb was set to go off the day before leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations, including President Clinton and President Jacques Chirac of France, gathered for a meeting in Lille.
After the Peugeot car packed with explosives was disarmed, it was traced to the militants living in Roubaix, setting up the shootout in which the four Algerians died.
According to French antiterrorism experts, a major problem in penetrating the G.I.A. networks has been their diffuse nature. These officials say that, unlike some other terror groups, the G.I.A. is split into separate cells, each composed of shifting groups of people who use Islamic code names, has no central leadership, and has little coherent policy.
A French official cited the Roubaix group as an example.
While the French investigation had shown that the Islamic radicals in the Roubaix group had "close relations with the G.I.A.," he said, it was not clear that they were under G.I.A. control.
"The G.I.A. is not an organization like Action Directe or the Red Brigades," he said, referring to terrorist groups active in France and Germany in the 1980's. "It's not an organization that's very structured, it's a collection of disparate units that act relatively autonomously."
Despite this, law-enforcement agencies across Europe say that raids on G.I.A. cells revealed a common operational pattern that has echoes in the Ressam case. Among these is Mr. Ressam's suspected use of false documents. Canadian authorities say he used a false French passport to enter Canada in 1994, and American authorities say he used a false Canadian passport to enter the United States. Investigators believe he might have used other false documents to make trips among Canada, Europe and the Middle East while he was petitioning unsuccessfully for refugee status in Canada.
Investigators in France, Belgium and Italy say that G.I.A.-linked cells have drawn on a network of passport factories and dozens of clandestine couriers. According to French court documents, one characteristic of G.I.A. recruiting procedures in Europe has been to confiscate the passports of young militants and recycle them for use by others in the network. American prosecutors asserted in court today that one document forger the G.I.A. relied on was Said Atmani, an Algerian who, with Mr. Kamel, was Mr. Ressam's roommate in Montreal for several months before being deported to Bosnia in November 1998.
According to the French charges against Mr. Kamel, involvement in this passport-forging ring was a major part of his underground work. The French indictment, which was used to extradite Mr. Kamel from Jordan in the spring, accuses him of "trafficking in false administrative documents," meaning passports and other identity papers, including some from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Italy, Turkey and Britain, "to facilitate the movement of terrorists."
Another point European experts have noted in the Ressam case is the bomb-making equipment found in the car. In recent years, investigators in Belgium and Britain, in roundups of suspected G.I.A. terrorists, have seized do-it-yourself terrorist manuals that have included details on how to produce toxins, how to handle high-powered weapons -- and how to make bombs from nitoglycerin, the explosive RDX, the chemical fertilizer urea, and wristwatch timers, materials United States prosecutors say Mr. Ressam was transporting when he was arrested. RDX, one of the manuals notes, turns brown when properly mixed.
In an 8,000-page manual contained on a computer diskette that the Belgian police seized from a G.I.A. member in March 1995 there is a similarly detailed description of how to make explosives and how to blow up buildings, bridges and public monuments. The manual opens with a dedication to Osama bin Laden, the wealthy Saudi Arabian hiding in Afghanistan whom American officials consider the world's most dangerous terrorist leader and groups like the G.I.A. consider a charismatic figure.
According to European investigators, another aspect of the Ressam case -- the deportation to Bosnia in 1998 of Mr. Atmani, who is suspected of sharing the Montreal apartment with Mr. Ressam and Mr. Kamel -- highlights still another feature of the Algerian underground: its links to Bosnia.
During the war there, and after, the investigators say, Bosnia was a G.I.A. sanctuary and a source of local passports and weapons. In addition, for many young Algerians, it served the same radicalizing purpose as the war in Afghanistan had for a previous generation of young Muslims in the 1980's.
After Mr. Ressam's arrest, American antiterrorist experts suggested there might be links in the case to Mr. bin Laden, who has been out of view since the United States accused him of masterminding the bombings of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 220 people in August 1998, and posted a $5-million reward for his capture. American officials said they first became aware of Mr. Ressam when he was spotted meeting in Montreal with known associates of Mr. bin Laden, who issued a religious decree, or fatwa, in February 1998 calling on followers to attack Americans anywhere.
These links may yet prove significant. But the picture offered by law-enforcement officials investigating Mr. Ressam's connections in Canada, France and elsewhere suggests that the men to whom Mr. Ressam was closest in Montreal, men like Mr. Kamel, had their own geographical and political frame of reference that would have needed no prompting from Mr. bin Laden to mount attacks against Western targets.
Islamic militants have had little problem recruiting in cities like Roubaix, where many of France's four million Muslims have faced racial discrimination, high unemployment, and the powerful influence of some local mosques, which have served as indoctrination schools for radical forms of Islamic belief.
As visitors to the Sunna mosque around the corner from the scene of the Roubaix shootout soon discover, the influence of Islamic radicals is strong enough to discourage open conversation on the subject.
"If you talk about those things, death will find you," said a 17-year-old self-professed drug dealer who gave only his street name, Rabbit.
Events in Algeria, too, have had a radicalizing effect. In 1992, after the military-led government canceled parliamentary elections, which a radical Islamic party was on the verge of winning, civil war erupted.
Initially, the guerrilla struggle was led by the armed wing of the Islamic Salvation Front, the group denied victory in the election. But by the mid-1990's the insurgents had split, with the G.I.A. emerging at the cutting edge of the violence. From the outset, the G.I.A. turned to Algerians in France as one of its main sources of money and recruits.
Gilles Kepel, a French scholar specializing in radical Islam, said that 1989, the year the Berlin wall came down, was a watershed year for many young Muslims in the poorer districts of France, a moment when many chose Islam as the third way between American-style capitalism and socialism.
"These kids were drinking, taking drugs, dropping out," Mr. Kepel said in an interview. "They found Islam in the mosque, or in prison. Embracing Islam was an assertion of the self. It was the French version of the story of Malcolm X."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four people killed in a shootout on March, 29, 1996, on this street of row houses in Roubaix, France, were linked to a radical Islamic network that American authorities now suspect is widening its field of operations into the United States. (Jamie Scott-Long for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); ALGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%); BELGIUM (54%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (67%); 

COMPANY: ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP WESTERN EUROPE (50%); ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP (83%); ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP (83%); ARMED ISLAMIC GROUP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; ROUBAIX (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (97%); ALGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%); BELGIUM (54%); QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (67%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); TERRORISM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARRESTS (75%); CARJACKING (75%); INDICTMENTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ROBBERY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; PYES, CRAIG; RESSAM, AHMED AHMED RESSAM (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



741 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: The Journey to 2000

 BODY:
The concluding day of the 20th century and therefore of the second millennium -- that event so freighted with various meanings by historians, politicians, fictionists and doomsaying preachers -- is upon us. With allowances for the dateline, it will fall everywhere with equal finality, evoking all around the world the same feelings of solemnity for humanity's catalogue of travails and triumphs, and stirring in every corner of our common planet the desire to celebrate our hope for a peaceful and healing future. Those aspirations will stir with an equal inexorability in quiet villages on far continents and in the digital glitter of Times Square.
At this newspaper, we cannot ignore the fact that the world's most famous New Year's Eve party takes place on our doorstep. The history of that party spans almost the entire century and is intimately connected to that of The Times. The intersection was known as Long Acre Square until 1904, when The Times moved to the area. In 1907 Adolph Ochs, who had purchased the newspaper 11 years earlier, came up with the idea of lowering an illuminated globe down a flagpole to mark the New Year. Ever since, Times Square has been the center of New York's celebration, and with the coming of the age of television, the teeming crowd that gathers to watch the ball drop has become an international symbol of the passage from the old year into the new. 

As Millions Cheer
Tonight an expected two million people will jam themselves into Times Square. Over a billion television viewers will be watching them count down the last seconds of 1999. At the dawn of the millennium, Times Square will become, in effect, the virtual town square for a nation and indeed for a world reshaped by revolutions in communications, transportation, medicine, commerce and perhaps most forcefully by America's century-long act of self-invention. It is that chronicle of change that presses most insistently forward as 2000 comes into view.
Henry Luce of Time magazine put America at the center of the story with a memorable term: the American Century. Those three words convey unmistakable self-congratulation, but there should be no artificial modesty about an overarching fact of the era. This is a nation that within the memory of our oldest citizens used the blood of its soldiers and the power of its founding idea to guide the world away from totalitarian rule and economic ruin.
 
One Hundred Years Ago
To be sure, the America that awaited the dawn of 1900 was by no means ready for its eventual role as guardian of what we now call the free world. But the years around the turn from the 19th to the 20th century became the hinge of a new age. After the great labor of filling up the continent, an inward-looking United States expanded its vision and ambitions, grasping for leadership in a world it had once ignored. In 1901 the only American president born in New York City, Theodore Roosevelt, moved into the White House. By 1908 he would enshrine progress and economic justice as national ideals. By reclaiming powers Congress had been accreting since the Civil War, he also created the powerful modern presidency as an institution capable of shaping both this nation's goals and world events. In the same period the country began to move rapidly toward the urbanized, mass-consumer society as its dominant mode of living. Products, style and money swirled together in a hurricane of social exploration. In 1920, for the first time, a majority of Americans lived in cities.
But beneath these flurries of imperial ambition and middle-class materialism, more spiritual aspirations were quickening as well -- a yearning for a society that was as enlightened as it was productive. That definitively American desire was captured in a letter written in 1912 by one apostle of the machine age, Thomas Edison, to another, Henry Ford. After surveying other societies, Edison concluded that "in a lot of respects we Americans are the rawest and crudest of all. Our production, our factory laws, our charities, our relations between capital and labor, our distribution -- all wrong, out of gear. We've stumbled along for a while, trying to run a new civilization in old ways, but we've got to start to make this world over."
 
The Fight for Freedom
 The idealistic desire to make the world over is the deepest mystery of the American character and our signature national trait. It was also the guiding influence in the century's thematic political conflict -- the series of armed and unarmed struggles to thwart tyranny. American idealism is mysterious because it has always existed in a paradoxical linkage with greed, an alarming tolerance for social injustice, and the racial blindness that allowed the same mind that shaped the Declaration of Independence to condone slavery.
Despite these flaws, the American vision of remaking the world was built around a stainless philosophical core -- the twin ideals of democratic self-government and individual liberty. These values would prove decisive in World War I, then World War II and finally the 50-year contest to block the Soviet Union's military aspirations and its doctrine of monolithic state oppression. A hundred years before the start of the watershed conflict of World War II, Alexis de Tocqueville observed that citizens in a democracy would be slow to enter wars and dangerously ineffective in the early fighting. But, he predicted, they would "easily turn into good soldiers when once they have been torn from their business and their pleasures." And he sensed that once engaged, they would not quit.
Less easy to foresee was that America and the West would have the benefit in World War II of the century's most important leader, President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He rallied, in his words, "the American people, in their righteous might" and led the alliance that defeated Adolf Hitler. On the humanitarian level, Roosevelt and his planners failed greatly in ignoring the apex of Nazi evil, the extermination of six million Jews. Nothing can erase the primal nature of that lapse. But the victors' peace imposed by the next president, Harry S. Truman, did provide a contrasting pinnacle of wisdom unlike anything in the history of warfare. The Marshall Plan to lift a wrecked Continent from the rubble was both a monument to American idealism and a coup for strategic self-interest.
 
Struggle in the Nuclear Age
For with Hitler's death, another, better-organized threat to liberty arose in the Soviet Union. Unless America had revitalized Europe, the Russian Bear would have ambled hungrily toward the Atlantic. Instead it was blocked through containment, a new doctrine that would prevent another global war but burden humanity with a prolonged anxiety about nuclear annihilation.
The bomb, however, was not the weapon that produced the concluding triumph of a century of expanding freedom. It was the American economy and the worldwide influence of the popular culture made possible by that economy. Robber-baron abuses and the Great Depression had, through painful steps, produced a consensus on how to manage capitalism. By regulation and taxation the government would curb the cruelties of laissez-faire capitalism, but never so sternly as to destroy the freedom of markets and the zeal of mold-breaking entrepreneurs. Unlike Europeans and the Japanese, Americans were get-rich-quick romantics willing to tolerate the huge, enduring income gaps between the most affluent and the poorest that remain the chief defect of the social contract governing their market economy.
 
The Power of Prosperity
 The compensating factor was the creation of a huge middle class and the attendant expansion of workers' ability to enjoy products and pleasures once reserved for the elite. Through mass communications, the images of America's generalized prosperity had an impact that rattled totalitarian capitals. The Soviet Union disintegrated when its economy could not sustain a decent standard of living while also matching the United States in the renewed arms race announced by President Ronald Reagan in 1981. Americans are still arguing whether his declaration of economic war on the "Evil Empire" was the act of a simpleton or a visionary strategist. But the shining fact is that the interplay between Mr. Reagan and the Soviet reformer Mikhail Gorbachev sped the destruction of a Soviet empire dedicated to the denial of civil liberties and national self-determination. For America, the century ended with a triumphant maturing of the concepts of freedom that a restless and innovative people had carried from Europe and nursed into vibrancy in the rough cradle of a frontier continent.
 
A Toast of Farewell
The original American frontiers had to do with covering geographic distance -- from coast to coast, from farm to factory, from hamlet to city or suburb. But the nation finishes the century with many of its social frontiers uncrossed. Racial justice and decent medical care are not yet a guaranteed part of every citizen's birthright grant to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Our people need arms controls that limit both nuclear weapons and the handguns on America's streets.
Indeed, on this New Year's Eve we still do not know if the invention of the silicon chip will surpass that of nuclear weapons as the signal technological event of the century. With visionary leadership, we may dare to hope that the ultimate engine of war will take second place in mankind's memory to a worldwide explosion of knowledge. Yet what can be known in these last hours of the year 1999 should be saluted by the glowing orb in Times Square and with toasts in living rooms across the land. It was a century in which freedom triumphed and generosity became a global ideal because of the most distinctive of all American inventions, a society based on the values of political freedom, economic opportunity, individual worth and equal justice. It is that invention that must be preserved and celebrated above all others, for it is our national treasure and the world's. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); NEW YEAR MILLENNIUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: THOMAS EDISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



742 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Meets Clergy to Explain Homeless Policy and Is Asked to Add Housing

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani met at City Hall yesterday with 20 of the city's ranking clergymen for more than an hour to try to placate critics of his welfare and homeless policies, and said he had agreed to additional meetings with the group to discuss increasing the amount of city money for low-income housing.
At a news conference after the meeting, Mr. Giuliani said, "We agreed to work together to see if we could create more affordable housing." Mr. Giuliani said he had offered to arrange meetings between the ministers' group and some of his senior advisers for housing and economic development. 
 The mayor's meeting yesterday was with the Commission of Religious Leaders of New York City, a group formed earlier in the year that includes leaders of Catholic, Protestant, Jewish and Islamic congregations. Several of the city's most influential religious leaders, including Cardinal John O'Connor and the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, the pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, are among its founding members.
Mr. Giuliani said the City Hall meeting had given him a "chance to dispel some of the false information about our programs regarding workfare, work and homelessness." He said he particularly focused on explaining the city's policy of arresting homeless people who refuse to go to shelters or hospitals and of separating children from their parents in cases of severe neglect. The mayor has also imposed a new policy, which is being challenged in court, that would place homeless children in foster care if their able-bodied parents did not find work.
In interviews yesterday, several of the clergymen who attended the meeting said they were encouraged by the mayor's interest in affordable housing. But some said they remained unconvinced about the merits of his current homeless policies.
"He laid out his reasons, but I still don't think we all agree with his sanctions," said Archdeacon Michael S. Kendall of the Episcopal Church's New York Diocese. "I certainly don't."
Whether the City Hall meeting had been sought by the mayor or the clergymen's group remained unclear yesterday. While Mr. Guiliani told reporters that "it was a meeting I organized," several members of the group said they had first proposed the idea of a meeting in a letter to the mayor in mid-December.
The clergymen said they ended the session convinced that the mayor would seriously consider their proposals for a greater commitment by the city to housing, which they said was a long-awaited benefit of a booming private sector and budget surpluses at City Hall.
"The critical thing is the need to follow up," said Msgr. Kevin Sullivan, chief operating officer of Catholic Charities of New York, who represented the Archdiocese of New York at the meeting. He said the mayor had suggested the group meet with two deputy mayors, Joseph Lhota and Rudy Washington, and with the commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, Richard T. Roberts.
"People at the meeting were very pleased that he indicated a willingness to continue a dialogue," Monsignor Sullivan said of the mayor. "I think the robustness of the economy means that there should be a way to figure out how to find permanent housing, decent jobs to support families and supportive services."
Rabbi Robert Levine, chairman of the Interfaith Committee of New York Rabbis, said he had proposed that Mr. Giuliani use whatever savings the city has derived from the sharp decline in the number of its residents who are on welfare as a fresh financial injection in housing for the poor. "He seemed to find it a thoughtful suggestion," Mr. Levine said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMISSION OF RELIGIOUS LEADERS OF NEW YORK CITY NEW YORK DIOCESE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION OF RELIGIOUS LEADERS OF NEW YORK CITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; WELFARE (US); HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RELIGION (99%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FOSTER CARE (65%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



743 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: More Christians Believe the Second Coming Is Approaching

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

 BODY:
In an apocalypse that Dawn Rivette expects to see in her lifetime, Jesus Christ rides to earth on a white stallion, sweeping believers up to heaven while calamity swallows the faithless left behind.
Chantel Mikell, a security guard, imagines the Second Coming as a tender, guiding hand righting a world gone crazily wrong. For Jeffrey Case, chemical and biological weapons will unleash massive destruction in an all-out war, as heaven opens the only escape. 
 And in a late-20th-century entreaty reminiscent of St. Augustine, Aida Guadalupe, a mother of three in the Bronx, prays for salvation -- but not yet.
As the final days ticked down before the year 2000, nearly one out of three Christians in the New York metropolitan region said they believed they would witness Christ's return in their lifetimes, according to a recent New York Times poll. Asked the same question four years ago, only one out of five Christians in the region believed they would see the end of time.
Belief that the apocalypse will occur in the coming years appears to be higher among Christians elsewhere in the United States than in New York, according to a recent CBS News poll that posed a question similar to the New York Times survey. In that poll, 37 percent of Protestants and Catholics said they believed Christ would return to earth sometime after the year 2000, Four years ago, 26 percent of Protestants and Catholics surveyed nationally said they believed Christ would return in their lifetimes.
The recent Times survey, conducted from Nov. 29 to Dec. 5, polled 1,615 adults of all religious backgrounds in New York's Roman Catholic Archdiocese, which includes Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island and seven upstate counties.
While the New Testament sets no specific date when the terrible visions described in the Book of Revelations will strike -- indeed, it says the time is not known -- television evangelists, supermarket tabloids and a variety of books with titles like "There's a New World Coming," and the highly popular "Are We Living in the End Times?" have taken to predicting the end is at hand.
William D. Dinges, a professor of religious studies at Catholic University of America, in Washington, likens popular belief that the apocalypse is coming to a "low grade fever, that flares up at different moments in history."
Generally, those beliefs grew strongest in times of adversity, surviving even after being proved wrong time and again. "There's something deeper that's going on here," he said.
One such movement, started by William Miller, a farmer, predicted the Second Coming in 1843, and then recalculated it for decades later. The prediction's failure became known among Millerites as the Great Disappointment.
One follower, Washington Morse, wrote of his anguish after altering his life in preparation for Christ's imminent return. "That day came and passed and the darkness of another night closed in upon the world. But with that darkness came a pang of disappointment to the Advent believers, that can find a parallel only in the sorrow of the disciples at the crucification of their Lord," Mr. Morse wrote in 1901.
"And now, to turn again to the cares, perplexities and dangers of life, in full view of jeering and rivaling unbelievers, who scoffed as never before, was a terrible trial of faith and patience. When Elder Himes visited Waterbury, Vt. a short time after the passing of the time, and stated that the brethren should prepare for another cold winter, my feelings were almost uncontrollable. I left the place of meeting and wept like a child."
At our century's end, Mr. Dinges said, nuclear weapons had put the horrific visions of the apocalypse within reach of popular imagination. "What we have is a scientific discovery that facilitates the plausibility of this end-of-time prophecy," he said. The sustained economic boom has probably tempered expectations of the second Advent, he said, but they were still heightened, according to the poll.
Ingebor G. Luckner, 73, a retired hairdresser and bank clerk in Port Jervis, N.Y., said she watches Billy Graham on television and believes she will see the Second Coming by her 80th birthday.
"It looks like we're getting near that time," said Mrs. Luckner, who participated in the New York Times poll and was reinterviewed afterward. Mrs. Luckner, who grew up in Hitler's Germany, said terrorism and violence among young people, which she said was shown by the wave of shootings at schools, made her think the end was near. "This I have not heard of throughout history," she said.
Mrs. Luckner imagined the second Advent could resemble the destruction she saw during the Allied bombing that ended World War II, when her family fled to the mountains and returned home to find neighbors digging the bodies of loved ones from the rubble.
"I try not to let it affect my life to the extent that I get hyper and panicky," she said. Mrs. Luckner said she is not without sin, but has led a "quiet, decent, honest life," toiling to care for ailing family members. "I tried hard," she said. "I tried very hard."
Ms. Mikell, 26, said she, too, thought the world had reached a turning point. "When you see children killing other children, you know the world is on its way to a serious downfall," she said.
She said she believed that Christ's return would prove nothing like the predictions St. John the Divine described during his exile on Patmos. "I don't believe that Jesus will come to harm," Ms. Mikell said. "He'll come to repair things, because there's a lot that's wrong with the world."
Those who believed the Second Coming is near share a belief that humanity is in trouble. Mrs. Rivette, a mother of three in Hyde Park, N.Y., said natural disasters like floods and earthquakes had almost become everyday occurrences. "It just seems like the end is getting closer," she said.
Mrs. Rivette said technology had made daily life easier, but the world was no more harmonious for it. She said she looked forward to an end of crime and hatred with the Second Coming, and to being swept up in the rapture and to being reunited with deceased relatives.
She said, too, that she expected those who did not believe in Christ would face punishment. "I don't see it as a bloody thing, but I think it'll be sad for the people who don't know who he is," she said.
Mr. Case, 29, who manages a beverage store in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,imagines mankind's final chapter as a global disaster, triggered by chemical or biological weapons.
But Mr. Case said he did not expect that non-Christians who were humane would suffer with Christ's return. "I don't think you have to believe in Jesus," he said. "In my mind, how could you let good people die?"
Aida Guadalupe, 34, said she, too, expected the end to be "devastating" for those who remained on earth.
Ms. Guadalupe said that her belief did not consume her life, because the uncertainty was still large. "I'd go out of my mind," she said. "All I can do is pray to God, to try to get to know him."
Ms. Guadalupe said her in-laws, who live in Florida, always ask whether she is attending church and feels ready for the rapture.
"In a way, I don't want it to come," she added. "I've got children, and I want to see them grow up. I want to see grandchildren.
"I'm hoping, 'Please, not yet.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey Case, who lives in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., said he believes the world will soon be destroyed by chemical or biological weapons. Ingeborg Luckner,73, predicts the Second Coming will arrive by her 80th birthday.
(Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); NEW WORLD LIBRARY (52%); NEW WORLD WINES (52%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (52%); NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; PUBLIC OPINION; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); MILLENNIUM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); CITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



744 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE;
FRENCH JOBLESSNESS DROPS

BYLINE: By John Tagliabue 

 BODY:
As mounting business confidence encourages fresh hiring, the unemployment rate in France dropped in November to 10.8 percent, its lowest rate in seven years, from 11 percent in October. French unemployment remains more than twice that of the United States and higher than the average -- which was 9.9 percent in October -- of the 11 countries that joined a year ago to create the European single currency, the euro. But economic growth in France and increased hiring have caused the rate to decline steadily since it peaked at 12.6 percent in June 1997. John Tagliabue
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); MONETARY UNIONS (83%); EURO (83%); CURRENCIES (83%); 

PERSON: JOHN TAGLIABUE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999



745 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 28; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3563 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening this weekend appears on Page 18.
 
Now Playing
 
* "ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER," starring Cecilia Roth, Marisa Paredes, Antonia San Juan and Penelope Cruz. Directed by Pedro Almodovar (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish with English subtitles). A whole new order of Almodovar extravaganza. The antic fizz and theatrical exaggeration of this filmmaker's earlier work have blossomed into a newly sophisticated style, one that is far more wise and deeply felt. Lovingly dedicated to actresses who have played actresses, this film weaves its own soap opera around "A Streetcar Named Desire" and tells of splendidly resilient women; Mr. Almodovar has aptly described his material as "screwball drama." Rich and entertaining, this story celebrates the power of artifice and impersonation to transcend ordinary truth. The irrepressible Ms. San Juan, a Spanish nightclub performer, plays a transsexual named Agrado and is the film's biggest treat (Janet Maslin). 

"ANGELA'S ASHES," starring Emily Watson, Robert Carlyle, Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens and Michael Legge. Directed by Alan Parker (R, 120 minutes). Anyone who thinks poverty is not pretty would have to think twice after seeing this artfully desolate-looking film version of Frank McCourt's boyhood memoir. As such, it's a perfect tsk-tsk for the holiday season, describing dire suffering alongside inspiring, uplifting episodes. Directed reverently by Mr. Parker, it parades forth a series of familiar anecdotes from Mr. McCourt's book without taking on much weight. This is the kind of film about hardship in which nobody has indoor plumbing, but everybody has clean hair (Maslin).
 
"ANNA AND THE KING," starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fat. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 140 minutes). The same story that inspired the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "The King and I" is the basis for this movie about the British schoolteacher Anna Leonowens (Ms. Foster), who travels to Bangkok in 1862 to educate the 58 children of King Mongkut (Mr. Chow). Although the story has been given a contemporary multicultural perspective that is critical of British imperialism, the picturesque film tells essentially the same story but without the beloved songs, which are badly missed. Ms. Foster's Anna is another of her nobler-than-thou ice queens, and Mr. Chow's king is authoritative but less than thunderous (Stephen Holden).
 
* "ANY GIVEN SUNDAY," starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, James Woods and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Oliver Stone (R, 160 minutes). Mr. Stone's brawling, hyper-macho professional football film has enough in-the-thick-of-it playing-field action to satisfy the fantasies of most armchair players. In the style of Mr. Stone's "Wall Street," the movie is also a crude morality play that pits the old ways against the new with the veteran coach Tony D'Amato (Mr. Pacino) embodying tradition and a young hotshot quarterback, Willie Beamen (Mr. Foxx), the new. Although the acting is uneven (Ms. Diaz is disappointing as a tough team owner), and the final scenes are shamelessly "Rocky"-ish, the movie delivers a credible, action-charged vision of the frenzied world of professional sports as a metaphor for the volatility of American culture (Holden).
 
* "BEING JOHN MALKOVICH," starring John Cusack, Catherine Keener, Cameron Diaz and (of course) John Malkovich. Written by Charlie Kaufman and directed by Spike Jonze (R, 112 minutes). Welcome to the fun house: in this exhilaratingly quirky first feature by a stellar video director, the reigning fears and obsessions of a technology-crazed, voyeuristic culture are given an even wilder workout than they got from "The Truman Show." Mr. Cusack plays a discouraged puppeteer who accidentally finds a way into Mr. Malkovich's mind. While the ordinary science fiction plot might go downhill after revealing its gimmick, this one's inspired craziness goes on and on. Originality and cleverness abound (Maslin).
 
"BICENTENNIAL MAN," starring Robin Williams, Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neill and Oliver Platt. Directed by Chris Columbus (PG, 132 minutes). This year's gushy Christmas card from Robin Williams follows the 200-year quest of a household robot named Andrew to become human. Directed by the schmaltzmeister Chris Columbus, who steered this star through "Mrs. Doubtfire," the movie is a joke-strewn sentimental man-machine allegory determined to make us feel good about being human that is punctuated by corny speeches exalting freedom, the joys of sex and the mystery of mortality. Except for Mr. Williams, the acting is strictly of sitcom caliber (Holden).
 
* "THE CIDER HOUSE RULES," starring Tobey Maguire, Charlize Theron and Delroy Lindo. Directed by Lasse Halstrom (PG-13, 125 minutes). Radically downsized in scope, and its examination of the issue of abortion greatly softened, John Irving's sixth novel (with a Dickensian screenplay by the author) has been turned into a lovely World War II-era fable about a young man venturing out into the world. Mr. Maguire is Homer Wells, a doleful innocent raised in an orphanage by Dr. Wilbur Larch (Michael Caine), who performs abortions. Fleeing the institution with a golden young couple (Ms. Theron and Paul Rudd), he becomes an apple picker. Sentimental but smart, the movie has the sweetness and narrative drive of a 40's "David Copperfield" (Holden).
 
"CRADLE WILL ROCK," starring Emily Watson, John Turturro, Ruben Blades, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Bill Murray and Vanessa Redgrave. Written and directed by Tim Robbins (R, 132 minutes). This huge Depression-era story features well-known figures from Orson Welles to Nelson Rockefeller to Diego Rivera, and it works them into an ambitious "Ragtime"-like tableau. Though too many figures in this landscape are reduced to naive caricature, Mr. Robbins and his impressive cast bring strong passions to bear upon this (mostly) true story of a legendary event: the trouble-fraught production of the banner-waving 1936 agitprop musical "The Cradle Will Rock" by Welles and John Houseman. Mr. Robbins and his cast play out all sides of this event with the certitude that its importance lives on (Maslin).
 
* "THE END OF THE AFFAIR," starring Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, Stephen Rea and Ian Hart. Directed by Neil Jordan (R, 105 minutes). Mr. Jordan's intoxicating version of Graham Greene's 1951 novel, in which an illicit affair becomes a far greater gamble than either lover could have imagined. For this fearlessly eclectic filmmaker, this is one more intelligent, brooding love story with a secret twist. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Moore breathe life into this story with a dreamy, erotic intensity that in no way trivializes the film's underlying ideas about religious faith. Period detail (the setting is London in the mid-1940's) is sumptuously heightened by the inspired costume designer Sandy Powell ("Shakespeare in Love") (Maslin).
 
"END OF DAYS," starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Robin Tunney, Gabriel Byrne and Kevin Pollak. Directed by Peter Hyams (R, 118 minutes). The star modestly tackles the role of a new savior who may just keep mankind free of Satan for the next thousand years. And that's not even the worst thing about this pointlessly nasty would-be thriller. The material is so derivative that it amounts to a tag sale of used parts from better apocalyptic films, with special credit owed to "The Exorcist" for grisly sacrilegious tricks. Mr. Hyams favors a jack-in-the-box approach to delivering shock value. The star dutifully protects a nice young woman from demonic forces. But Mr. Byrne plays the swaggering embodiment of pure evil and has the better role (Maslin).
 
"GIRL, INTERRUPTED," starring Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie, Directed by James Mangold (R, 120 minutes). Except for being several years too old for the role, Winona Ryder, an actress who oozes high-strung intelligence, is ideally cast as Susanna Kaysen, a pre-college-age girl who lands in a Cambridge mental institution in 1967 after a halfhearted suicide attempt. (The movie is based on Ms. Kaysen's memoir.) The period details are perfect, and Ms. Ryder has the courage to make her character a pain in the neck. But the small, introspective movie is nearly stolen by Ms. Jolie as a charismatic, brutally truth-telling sociopath who becomes Susanna's best friend (Holden).
 
"THE GREEN MILE," starring Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan, David Morse, Doug Hutchison, Sam Rockwell and Bonnie Hunt. Written and directed by Frank Darabont (R, 180 minutes). In adapting the death row drama that Stephen King wrote in multiple installments, the director of "The Shawshank Redemption" could have managed more economy and fewer talky bits of business around the cellblock. Still, this lengthy film is vivid and well played. Smooth ensemble acting builds up to the discovery that a gigantic condemned man (Mr. Duncan) is a prisoner with very special abilities, which gives the film its mixture of religious overtones and mild horror. Mr. Hanks, as a wry Southern prison guard, is so unaffectedly good that it's redundant to say so (Maslin).
 
* "THE HURRICANE," starring Denzel Washington, Directed by Norman Jewison (R, 120 minutes). The life story of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter, a middleweight contender who spent nearly 20 years in prison for a triple murder he didn't commit, is a big, schmaltzy ballad of a movie redeemed by Mr. Washington's moving, bone-deep portrayal of the boxer from Paterson, N.J. But the movie plays fast and loose with the facts, giving far too much credit to the members of a Canadian commune who took up Mr. Carter's cause and all but eliminating his heroic co-defendant John Artis from the story. And the minor characters are either saints or monsters. Yet the story of a man heroically fighting his demons and winning his freedom is still inspiring (Holden).
 
* "THE INSIDER," starring Al Pacino, Russell Crowe and Christopher Plummer. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 155 minutes). Mr. Mann directs this taut thriller about the tobacco industry whistle-blower Jeffrey Wigand with pulse-quickening panache. And he illustrates why, in the corporate climate of the 90's, truth-telling is a riskier business than it was circa "All the President's Men." While Mr. Pacino delivers galvanizing moral outrage as a producer for "60 Minutes," and Mr. Plummer wickedly mimics Mike Wallace, Mr. Crowe movingly captures the complexity of Mr. Wigand's situation. Shaky docudrama ethics cloud the film's take on "60 Minutes." But this is an inordinately well-played thriller, with Mr. Mann's stylistic brio at its best (Maslin).
 
"MAGNOLIA," starring Tom Cruise, Melinda Dillon, Philip Seymour Hoffman, William H. Macy, Julianne Moore, John C. Reilly and Jason Robards. Written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson (R, 180 minutes). In "Magnolia," the colossally talented Mr. Anderson has set up an artfully orchestrated symphony of intersecting L.A. stories, with many of the cast members from his "Boogie Nights" assembled to form a charismatic ensemble. The movie is saved from its own worst ideas by the intimacy of the performances. Its single biggest surprise is Tom Cruise in the role of a strutting, obscenity-spouting cult figure named Frank Mackey (Maslin).
 
"MAN ON THE MOON," starring Jim Carrey, Courtney Love, Danny DeVito and Paul Giamatti. Directed by Milos Forman (R, 118 minutes). Andy Kaufman: genius or creep? This biography takes the more positive view and minimizes the kinkier aspects of Kaufman's misanthropic performance art, preferring a big, vibrant collection of greatest hits. Mr. Carrey channels his character brilliantly and makes his material funnier and tighter than it was in fact. And Mr. Forman directs with the same enthusiasm for outlaw Americana that he brought to "The People vs. Larry Flynt." But the writers, who also wrote that film and "Ed Wood," can't easily find an unself-conscious side of the late comic artist to work with. This feels like the authorized version. It has no real answer to the question of who Kaufman was and how he got that way (Maslin).
 
"ONEGIN," starring Ralph Fiennes, Liv Tyler and Martin Donovan. Directed by Martha Fiennes (not rated, 106 minutes). As the directorial debut of Mr. Fiennes's sister Martha, "Onegin" diminishes Alexander Pushkin's epic 19th-century novel "Evgeny Onegin" into a cramped little soap opera whose two stars are painfully mismatched. While Mr. Fiennes acts up a fine storm as the arrogant, cynical title character who doesn't believe in love, Ms. Tyler, who plays his romantic nemesis, is an inert cipher. Somehow, even the grand ballrooms of 1820's St. Petersburg look drab and chintzy (Holden).
 
"SLEEPY HOLLOW," starring Johnny Depp, Christina Ricci, Miranda Richardson, Michael Gambon, Jeffrey Jones, Michael Gough and Christopher Walken. Written by Andrew Kevin Walker and directed by Tim Burton (R, 110 minutes). This ornate visual fantasy, artfully concocted using a palette that suggests nuclear winter, has little to do with Washington Irving's story and everything to do with Mr. Burton's macabre vision. Mr. Depp makes a dashing hero as the film's shy detective, but the story (by the writer of "Seven" and "Fight Club") is determined to put the ick into Ichabod Crane. A first-rate cast and extraordinary technical talents are attention-getting, but so is the film's penchant for sardonic beheadings. It's possible to admire Mr. Burton immensely for the secret tenderness and rich imagination of his work without wanting to peer at the exposed brain stems of his characters (Maslin).
 
"SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS," starring Ethan Hawke, James Cromwell and Max Von Sydow. Directed by Scott Hicks (PG-13, 130 minutes). This director's follow-up to "Shine" is the cinematic equivalent of an arty coffee-table book. It is so busy illustrating the story (with elaborate flashbacks and montage sequences) that it forgets to be dramatic. Set in the Pacific Northwest in 1950, the movie looks back to World War II and the charged relationships between Japanese-Americans and whites on an island north of the Puget Sound. Mr. Hawke is the brooding reporter covering the trial and Mr. Von Sydow the defense lawyer who is the film's official conscience. Robert Richardson is responsible for the gorgeous cinematography (Holden).
 
* "STUART LITTLE," starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and Jonathan Lipnicki. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 92 minutes). E. B. White's 1945 children's classic has been adapted into a lovely family film about a little mouse (the voice of Michael J. Fox) who is adopted by humans but runs afoul of their fluffy white Persian house cat, Snowbell (Nathan Lane). The movie creates an enchanted storybook version of New York and has what may be the most exciting toy boat race (in Central Park) ever filmed. Thanks to Mr. Lane's sly, wise-guy vocal impersonation, Snowbell nearly steals a movie that is funny and sweet but never cloying (Holden).
 
"SWEET AND LOWDOWN," starring Sean Penn, Samantha Morton and Uma Thurman. Directed by Woody Allen (PG-13, 95 minutes). In homage to the kind of jaunty 1930's jazz that has been heard on many of his other films' soundtracks, Mr. Allen imagines a consummate jazz character: Emmet Ray (played with gusto by Mr. Penn), who can play the guitar as gorgeously as Django Reinhardt but lacks certain interpersonal skills when it comes to his private life. Borrowing attributes of various real musicians, the film turns Emmet into another one of Mr. Allen's cad-geniuses and gives him a long-suffering mute laundress as a sweetheart. (Ms. Morton works miracles in her wordless role.) But on the storytelling level, the film remains flimsy. It's the musical interludes, frequent and lovingly presented, that keep it alive (Maslin).
 
* "THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY," starring Matt Damon, Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Cate Blanchett and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Written and directed by Anthony Minghella (R, 135 minutes). There are diabolically smart surprises wherever you care to look in this glittering thriller. Proving that the brilliance of "The English Patient" was no fluke, Mr. Minghella shapes a hypnotic, sensually charged adaptation of Patricia High smith's fascinatingly reptilian murder story. The traffic-stopping cast includes Mr. Damon as the dangerous chameleon of the title and, in a star-making role, the English actor Jude Law as a rich dilettante who exerts a homoerotic magnetism. Ms. Paltrow plays the odd woman out with the shrewdness of a fine character actress, while Ms. Blanchett makes the delirious most of her role as a needy American post-debutante. As the story's odious playboy-snob, Mr. Hoffman is scene-stealingly wonderful. Gorgeously photographed in Italy by John Seale (Maslin).
 
* "TITUS," starring Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, Harry Lennix and Jonathan Rhys Meyers. Directed by Julie Taymor (R, 160 minutes). Ms. Taymor, the theater director and puppeteer who created transfixing stage pictures in "The Lion King" and "Juan Darien," has turned Shakespeare's goriest tragedy, "Titus Andronicus," into a powerful contemplation of murderous revenge enacted throughout history. Mr. Hopkins is ghoulishly funny and tragic as the title character, whose political stupidity sets in motion a devastating chain reaction of killing, torture and retaliation. Ms. Lange is Tamora, the captured Goth empress who strikes back. Although the movie's British theatrical and American film acting styles don't mesh, Ms. Taymor's vision is realized with a shattering force in time-traveling imagery that blends ancient Rome with Mussolini's Italy and contemporary cyberpunk flash (Holden).
 
* "TOPSY-TURVY," starring Allan Corduner and Jim Broadbent. Directed by Mike Leigh (R, 161 minutes). Mr. Leigh's grandly entertaining "Topsy-Turvy" is one of those films that create a mix of erudition, pageantry and delectable acting opportunities, much as "Shakespeare in Love" did last year. Instead of a love-struck young playwright, it presents the curiously matched personalities of the librettist William Schwenk Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan in the midst of a robust, knowing, frequently hilarious look at the musical theater over which they held sway (Maslin).
 
* "TOY STORY 2," with the voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen. Directed by John Lasseter; a Pixar Animated Studios film (G, 98 minutes). A wonderfully playful sequel, sustaining the first film's wit and novelty while bringing new sophistication to computer-generated animation. And here is welcome proof that Hollywood can still make movies to please audiences of any age or persuasion. From its opening (a perfectly adorable "Star Wars" parody) to its Capraesque conclusion, this is seamless work with more metaphorical cleverness than that usually found in the toy bin. Colorful new characters and more adventurous action enhance the story of how Woody falls into the clutches of a sleazy toy dealer, experiences new-found celebrity and needs to be rescued by his fabulous old friends (Maslin).
 
"THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH," starring Pierce Brosnan, Sophie Marceau, Dame Judi Dench, Robert Carlyle and Denise Richards. Directed by Michael Apted (PG-13, 128 minutes). This director is much admired for his "Up" series chronicling the lives of former schoolchildren as they mature. And he has managed to make James Bond grow up a little, too. Mr. Brosnan has become much more comfortable with the role of Bond, and most of the other characters are also more interesting than might have been expected. Ms. Marceau slinks memorably through the role of a treacherous oil heiress. Ms. Richards seemed a lot smarter playing high school vixens than she does as a brilliant scientist here. The itinerary roams from Scotland to Central Asia. And Mr. Apted handles the action as well as he does the talk (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"THE FUTURE IS NOW." At the end of one millennium and the beginning of another, visions of the future occupy the mind. Will the years to come bring blessings? Or disaster? Movies, with their magical ability to make visual illusions seem real, have a long history of delivering potent images of times to come. In its current series, "The Future Is Now," the American Museum of the Moving Images offers samples of the many ways filmmakers have dealt with the subject (related article, Page 38). Among the highlights this weekend is George Miller's "Mad Max" (1979), starring Mel Gibson as a vengeful motorcyclist speeding through a bleak, anarchic landscape in the near future. The film plays at 4 p.m. tomorrow. At 2 p.m. Sunday the attraction is William Cameron Menzie's epic "Things to Come" (1936), adapted by H. G. Wells from his essay "The Shape of Things to Come" and starring Raymond Massey. Through Sunday. Admission to the series at the museum, 34-12 36th Street, at 35th Avenue, Astoria, Queens, is $8.50 for adults, $5.50 for people over 65 and students with I.D., $4.50 for children from 5 to 18 and free to children under 4. Information and screening schedule: (718) 784-0077 (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Glossy poverty: Emily Watson with Sam O'Gorman, left, and Ben O'Gorman in "Angela's Ashes." (Bill Kaye/Angelus Films); Lust for luxury: Matt Damon stars in "The Talented Mr. Ripley," directed by Anthony Minghella. (Phil Bray/Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); THAILAND (66%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (66%); 

COMPANY: ALL ABOUT SPORTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); THAILAND (66%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MUSIC (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); 

PERSON: MATT DAMON (58%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1999

 
