

801 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: House Is Likely to Join a Call Urging China to Raise Currency

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House is expected to give the Obama administration another tool in its diplomatic pouch to pressure China to let its currency rise in value, reflecting growing concern around the country over the loss of manufacturing jobs, persistently high unemployment and a rising trade deficit.
In what is likely to be one of Congress's last significant measures before the election, the House will vote Wednesday on a symbolic but not insignificant measure threatening China with punitive tariffs on its imports to the United States. 
In the past, Beijing has responded to such tactics by allowing its currency to rise gradually in relation to the dollar. Lately, though, efforts at cajoling the Chinese to revalue their currency have met with little, if any, response.
But it is unclear whether the legislation, which faces cloudy prospects in the Senate, will succeed this time in prodding a China that has become more self-confident on the world stage. Some economists believe that Beijing has undervalued the currency, the renminbi, for about a decade to promote Chinese exports by making them cheaper.
''The legislation will strengthen the administration's hand in its negotiations with China, but also risks provoking a strong backlash,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell and a former head of the International Monetary Fund's China division. ''Ultimately its short-term effect is likely to be more symbolic than substantive.''
The strategy has borne fruit before. In July 2005, under pressure from a Republican-controlled Congress and the Bush administration, Chinese officials agreed to end the fixed peg of the renminbi to the dollar, allowing it to appreciate by more than 20 percent until July 2008, when they re-established the peg in response to global economic turmoil.
Now, with Democrats struggling to maintain their Congressional majorities, a Democratic president is pressing China on the issue. But so far the efforts have yielded little.
Lawrence H. Summers, one of President Obama's top economic advisers, and Thomas E. Donilon, deputy national security adviser, traveled to Beijing this month for three days of meetings with Chinese leaders but returned empty-handed on the currency issue.
Last Friday, Mr. Obama personally raised the issue with the Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, on the sidelines of the United NationsGeneral Assembly meetings in New York.
Since June, when China announced that it would permit greater exchange-rate flexibility, the renminbi has risen less than 2 percent against the dollar, with much of the increase occurring this month, amid rising Congressional anger and tough new rhetoric from the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner.
A weaker renminbi -- estimates of the extent of the undervaluation range as high as 40 percent -- makes Chinese exports cheaper and foreign imports more expensive.
But in both countries, there are constituencies for and against currency revaluation.
In the United States, smaller manufacturers, labor unions and agricultural producers have been pressing the government to take a tough stance, saying that the currency policy has contributed to soaring trade deficits and the continued erosion of domestic industry.
But large multinational corporations, especially those with production plants in China, and Wall Street banks, are comfortable with a weak renminbi because they export goods from China or are trying to promote investment there.
In China, consumers would benefit from cheaper imports, and a stronger renminbi would help correct global economic imbalances that some economists say could lead to soaring inflation and asset bubbles. But export-oriented businesses and state-owned companies, which wield tremendous clout within the Communist regime, say the weak currency is vital for economic growth.
In recent weeks, the Obama administration, which had favored quiet diplomacy, has signaled to Congress that it was open to new measures.
Though he did not endorse the legislation, Mr. Geithner said at a House hearing this month that ''it is very important that China hear from the Congress, from Republicans and from Democrats,'' about the effect of China's policies on American economic interests.
The Ways and Means Committee passed the bill on a voice vote on Friday.
Sponsored by Representatives Tim Ryan, Democrat of Ohio, and Tim Murphy, Republican of Pennsylvania, the legislation would expand the Commerce Department's ability to impose punitive duties on countries that undervalue their currencies to promote exports.
Experts expressed skepticism about the move; some believe it will merely antagonize the Chinese.
''Many people don't think the multilateral steps have worked, that they've been tried, the talk has gone on, and nothing has happened,'' Ira S. Shapiro, a lawyer at Greenberg Traurig and a top trade negotiator during the Clinton administration, told House members this month. ''I think it's too early to reach that conclusion.''
Mr. Shapiro urged American officials to make the upcoming Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul, South Korea, in November the focal point of multinational efforts to persuade China to move. If those talks fail, he said, the United States should pursue remedies at the World Trade Organization, which China joined in 2001.
Professor Prasad of Cornell warned that if the Congressional proposal went forward, China could retaliate by limiting American imports or denying American manufacturers and financial institutions ''the coveted prize of access to rapidly growing Chinese markets.''
Framing the issue as a dispute between the two countries, he added, ''suits the Chinese well as it deflects attention from the global consequences of Chinese currency policy.''
Many economists believe that China is unlikely to budge without a concerted demonstration of international resolve. But such coordination is difficult when all countries are struggling to bolster their recoveries.
Two weeks ago, Japan devalued the yen, its first intervention in currency markets since 2004. The finance minister of Brazil, whose currency has soared in value, warned Tuesday that an ''international currency war'' was under way.
The International Monetary Fund has affirmed that China undervalues its currency, but lacks enforcement powers to give teeth to its reports. And the process for resolving disputes through the World Trade Organization is lengthy and uncertain.
All of those factors have made action by the House increasingly likely.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with Wen Jiabao, China's premier, at the United Nations General Assembly in New York last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Under Pressure: China allowed the renminbi to rise about 20 percent against the dollar from 2005 to 2008, before the government reimposed a currency peg. It announced it would allow a more flexible currency in June and, since then, the renminbi has risen slightly, as the Group of 20 met, Japan moved to weaken the yen, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told Congress that China had substantially undervalued its currency and President Obama met with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); WEN JIABAO (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



802 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: For Deficit, Conservative Cutbacks

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Washington
In their Pledge to America, Congressional Republicans have used the old trick of promising specific tax cuts and vague spending cuts. It's the politically easy approach, and it is likely to be as bad for the budget as when George W. Bush tried it.
The sad thing is, a truly conservative approach to the deficit does exist. You can find strands of it among Republican governors, some of the party's current Congressional candidates and the ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, Paul Ryan. 
The brief version might sound something like this: The federal government has outgrown its ability to pay for itself. Our economic future and even our national security depend on solving the problem. Yet President Obama has expanded health insurance, increased education spending and escalated a war of choice. Elect us, and fiscal responsibility won't have to wait in line.
The detailed plan would start in the same place that Republican campaign rhetoric does, with rooting out waste and bloat. Some tasks, like mail delivery and air traffic control, could be privatized. The federal work force could be reduced, and pay for federal workers could be cut. Federal aid to states could be cut, too.
But then comes the crucial difference.
Actual fiscal conservatives acknowledge that these steps do not come anywhere close to solving the long-term deficit. By 2035, the deficit (even without counting interest payments on the federal debt) is on course to reach $1.9 trillion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. If you reduced domestic discretionary spending to its share of the economy under Ronald Reagan and then eviscerated it an additional 20 percent, you would shrink the deficit by all of $100 billion.
The bulk of the deficit problem instead comes from three popular programs, Medicare, Social Security and the military, and they happen to be the ones the Republican pledge exempts from cuts. But it's impossible to fix the deficit without making cuts to these programs or raising taxes. To suggest otherwise is to claim that 10 minus 1 equals 5.
''We as Republicans need to realize that you can't just cut off the welfare queen and balance the budget,'' says Rand Paul, a Senate candidate in Kentucky, who has some extreme views on other issues but is evidently pro-arithmetic. ''The only way you'll ever get close to balancing the budget is if you look at the entire budget.''
When they're not talking for quotation, some Republicans will explain that the pledge is, of course, a political document: although it may not spell out specific budget cuts, the party is willing to make them. But I think this view misreads recent history.
Republicans controlled the White House and Congress for much of 2001 to 2006, and they turned a big surplus into a big deficit. In the last two years, they have opposed several Obama administration plans for reducing the deficit, including cuts to Medicare, weapons programs and farm subsidies, as well as tax increases on the affluent. Given this history, my colleague Ross Douthat concluded that the pledge ''might create a larger deficit than the Obama alternative.''
In short, the pledge imagines a world without tough choices, where we can have low taxes, big government and a balanced budget. And therein lies the path to ever larger deficits.
The essential question for any would-be budget balancer is how large the federal government should be.
For most of the last century, the government has been getting bigger. Its spending equaled about 2 percent of gross domestic product in 1900, 14 percent just after World War II and, after ballooning to almost 25 percent during the financial crisis, will fall to 23 percent in the next few years.
There is a good argument that the government should grow as societies become richer. Once people can afford the basics, they want services that the private sector often does not provide, like a strong military, good schools, generous medical care and a comfortable retirement, as Matt Miller, a McKinsey & Company consultant and former Clinton administration official, has pointed out.
To me, this pattern argues for making tax increases a big part of the deficit solution. Maybe taxes would eventually rise to 23 percent of G.D.P., rather than 19 percent, as under current policy. Spending could then be cut from the 26 percent it is scheduled to reach in 2035, yet still be high enough to afford the investments that lead to prosperity. After all, the Internet, the highway system and the biotechnology sector all began as government programs.
Conservatives counter that governments just as often allocate resources badly, and there is something to this. It's the small-government case that Mr. Paul, Mr. Ryan and governors like Mitch Daniels of Indiana and Chris Christie of New Jersey are making.
Mr. Paul emphasizes wasteful military spending that lines the pockets of military contractors rather than protecting the country. A bipartisan task force of military experts has identified cuts that would eventually equal almost 1 percent of G.D.P.
On Social Security, Marco Rubio, the Republican Senate candidate in Florida, has suggested raising the eligibility age. Two other Republican Senate candidates, Sharron Angle of Nevada and Joe Miller of Alaska, have gone further, suggesting a phaseout of Social Security. In the long run, changes to Social Security could save even more money than military cuts.
But the biggest cause of looming deficits is Medicare. Mr. Daniels, a possible 2012 presidential candidate, recently told Newsweek that he favored Medicare cuts. Mr. Ryan has been willing to get specific. For everyone now under 55, he wants to turn Medicare into a voucher program that's much less generous than the program is scheduled to be.
Mr. Ryan's budget blueprint offers an especially pointed contrast with the pledge. The Ryan plan calls for holding taxes at around 19 percent of G.D.P. and suggests specific cuts to bring spending in line. The pledge calls for even lower taxes -- while offering almost no detail on spending cuts.
Which seems more credible?
Unfortunately, elected Republicans have often backed away from their own fiscally conservative ideas when pushed. Mr. Ryan says he supports the pledge. Ms. Angle has reversed herself on Social Security. Mr. Daniels has said tax increases should be an option, but that will be a tough position to keep in a presidential campaign.
And I get it. Voters don't like having their taxes raised or their benefits cut. I don't like it, either.
But, remember, when politicians tell you that they are opposed to tax increases, Medicare cuts, Social Security cuts and military cuts, they're really saying that they are in favor of crippling deficits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, urges cuts to wasteful military spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) CHART: Looming Budget Problems: If current policies continue, Medicare and Social Security spending are both projected to grow much faster than federal tax revenue, creating a growing federal budget deficit. Other spending, on discretionary programs, for example, is not likely to grow nearly as fast. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RAND PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



803 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans Bolster Power Of Ruler's Kin

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and MARK McDONALD; Martin Fackler reported from Tokyo, and Mark McDonald from Seoul, South Korea. Andrew Jacobs contributed reporting from Beijing, Choe Sang-hun from Palo Alto, Calif., and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Kim Jong-il, North Korea's supreme leader, took new steps on Tuesday to ensure that his family remains in charge after his death, but the biggest leadership shuffling in a generation has so far produced more political intrigue than signs of real change in North Korea, one of the world's most isolated nations.
Mr. Kim elevated his sister and a close friend to a high military ranking and had his youngest son and heir apparent, Kim Jong-un, made a member of the Central Committee of the ruling Workers' Party.
The promotions came a day after the younger Mr. Kim was also made a four-star general and seemed aimed at ensuring a dynastic succession that would give Mr. Kim, thought to be in his late 20s, time to solidify his power. 
The elevation of the completely unknown Mr. Kim, and hints that other members of the extended Kim clan will exercise power behind the scenes in a kind of Communist regency, add to the uncertainty about North Korea. It appears to have mostly abandoned its incipient economic reforms and has declined to enter new international talks about its nuclear weapons program, leaving its neighbors and the United States alarmed about its intentions.
Few analysts claim to fully understand the inner workings of the North Korean military or the Kim dynasty. But many who watch the country closely say they see few signs that succession will produce a stable, credible leadership that is, at least initially, confident enough to engage with the outside world or to steer resources to economic development rather than the military.
''We worry about Pakistan, but this is potentially every bit as destabilizing as Pakistan,'' said William R. Keylor, a professor of international relations at Boston University. ''Succession in North Korea would just be an oddity if it were not for the fact that we are dealing with a country with nuclear weapons and delivery systems. That is what makes this serious.''
Fear of instability also followed the death of Kim Il-sung, North Korea's founder, and the rise of his son, Kim Jong-il, in 1994. The country did not collapse then, though its economic performance deteriorated sharply and millions of North Koreans are thought to have starved to death during Kim Jong-il's erratic tenure.
This time, the country appears less well prepared for a transition. Kim Jong-il had 14 years between his political introduction in 1980 and his father's death, time he used to build support internally. There are few signs that a succession process had even begun when Kim Jong-il, 68, apparently suffered a stroke two years ago.
Some analysts predict that new leaders may feel compelled to prove their nationalist credentials by engaging in provocative actions that could worsen tensions with South Korea and Japan and their main ally, the United States. In March, South Korea accused the North of sinking one of its warships, the Cheonan, which some analysts say appears to have been a display of force meant to persuade the military to respect the younger Mr. Kim.
''The question now is whether they will do dangerous things like the Cheonan or something else to hold the regime together,'' said Victor Cha, director of Asian studies at Georgetown University. ''They were already unstable as it was, and this succession issue makes them even more unpredictable.''
In the most destabilizing situation, an internal power struggle could also lead to the collapse of the government. But many observers discount that possibility, largely because of the support of another neighbor, China.
Beijing has made it clear that it is determined to avoid a political eruption on its borders. It has consistently taken steps to aid North Korea when the North has had severe shortages of food and energy, and it has tried to ensure that international sanctions intended to punish the North for its development of nuclear weapons are not crippling.
Kim Jong-il has made two visits to China in recent months to shore up its support. China has said that the younger Mr. Kim was not a member of his father's delegation in China a month ago, but American officials say they believe the son indeed was on the trip and may have met Chinese officials informally.
''What China is most concerned about is stability, namely stability in North Korea, the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,'' said Xu Wenji, an expert on North Korea at the Northeast Asia Institute at Jilin University. ''So the concern for stability overrides everything else on this matter for the Chinese government.''
The reasons behind the elevation of Kim Jong-il's sister, Kim Kyong-hui, and Choe Ryong-hae, a lifelong friend of the Korean leader and a member of his inner circle, along with the promotion of Kim Jong-un, are uncertain.
Experts suggested that the three, along with the sister's husband, Jang Song-taek, might end up forming a new ruling group that could have the power to keep the military in check and continue the dynasty, at least until the son can fully replace his father.
The promotion of the sister caught some analysts by surprise. Mr. Cha at Georgetown said it represented public recognition for someone who was already the power behind the throne in the Kim dynasty. He said that she was the confidante and the woman closest to Kim Jong-il, whose wives and mother are dead, and that she even took care of the leader when he was ill.
''They are very, very close,'' said Choi Jin-wook, a scholar at the Korea National Institute for Unification in Seoul, who said Ms. Kim was likely to emerge as ''the key person in the new collective leadership of the country.''
He noted that she never really needed a defined political role in North Korea ''because she was the sister of the king and she had all the power she needed -- maybe too much.''
Mr. Choi said Ms. Kim, 64, was rumored to have a drinking problem and a fiery temper. Her daughter committed suicide in France in 2006. She is the wife of Jang Song-taek, often regarded by analysts as the No. 2 man in the North. Kim Jong-il has relied on him to handle the day-to-day duties of running the country.
There were hints that some moderates have also gained power. Kang Sok-ju, a deputy foreign minister, was named deputy premier, and Kim Kye-gwan, the North's chief negotiator in the six-nation nuclear talks, took Mr. Kang's slot. Another negotiator, Ri Yong-ho, also moved up.
American officials said they had not seen enough to predict with confidence how the succession would affect the North's actions and policies.
Kurt M. Campbell, an assistant secretary of state, told reporters in New York on Monday that the United States was ''watching developments in North Korea carefully.''
''But frankly,'' he said, ''it's still too early to tell in terms of next steps, or in fact, what's going on inside the country's leadership.''
Koreas Plan Talks
SEOUL, South Korea -- An official with the Ministry of National Defense here said Wednesday that the two Koreas would hold military talks on Thursday morning at the border village of Panmunjom. The two sides have not held such talks in two years.
The defense official, speaking anonymously, declined to discuss the agenda of the working-level talks. But it was widely expected that Seoul would raise the issue of the sinking of a South Korean warship in March. The South has blamed a North Korean torpedo attack for the sinking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korea on Tuesday released a photo of dancers in Pyongyang, the capital, celebrating the promotion of the top leader's son. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); STARVATION (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STROKES (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (92%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); JAPAN (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



804 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: 'Stick With Me,' Obama Urges Students

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis. -- President Obama, seeking to avert potentially devastating losses for Democrats on Election Day, delivered an impassioned appeal to a cheering throng of college students here Tuesday night, telling them to ''keep believing change is possible'' and pleading, ''You've got to stick with me, you can't lose heart.''
In a 45-minute speech on a packed green in front of the library at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Mr. Obama reached back to the soaring rhetoric that carried him to the White House in 2008. The old-fashioned get-out-the-vote rally, in a brisk wind under gray skies, seemed to energize the president as much as the crowd. 
''Change is going to come for this generation -- if we work for it, if we fight for it, if we believe in it!'' Mr. Obama thundered. ''The biggest mistake we can make is to let disappointment or frustration lead to apathy and indifference.''
The high-energy appearance, broadcast to 200 campuses around the country, was designed to stir memories of the final days of Mr. Obama's presidential run, when more than 17,000 turned out to see him in this overwhelmingly liberal town.
Now, though, with his political clout diminished and voters increasingly dissatisfied with his stewardship of the economy, Mr. Obama must pick his audiences carefully. So Democratic strategists have settled on a strategy of trying to recapture the enthusiasm of 2008 by having Mr. Obama reach out to young people, especially the first-time voters who turned out in droves for him -- and who may be apathetic, but have not soured on the president as older voters have.
The police and Democratic Party organizers said that about 17,000 people crammed onto Library Mall to hear the president, with 9,000 more spilling over onto nearby streets. The line to get through the metal detectors was more than a mile long, the authorities said. In another throwback to 2008, Ben Harper, the singer-songwriter who campaigned for Mr. Obama during his run for the White House, served as the warm-up act for the president.
With his collar open and his shirt sleeves rolled up, Mr. Obama bounded onto the stage, declaring, ''I don't know about you, but I'm fired up!'' His talk mixed his standard attack on Republicans -- he said they had driven the economy into ''a ditch'' -- with a far more emotional appeal intended to remind young people why they voted for him in the first place, and to urge them to get to the polls to ''finish what we started'' in 2008.
''Two years ago you defied the conventional wisdom of Washington,'' Mr. Obama said, reminding them that people said no one would ever ''elect a skinny guy with a funny name, Barack Hussein Obama.''
But, he said: ''You proved that the power of everyday people, going door to door, neighbor to neighbor, friend to friend, was stronger than the status quo. You tapped into something that this country hadn't seen in a very long time. You did that. Every single one of you is a shareholder in that mission of rebuilding our country.''
With just five weeks to go before Election Day, the White House is deploying Mr. Obama in a carefully orchestrated mix of events, large and small. His appearance in Madison on Tuesday was the first of four get-out-the-vote rallies Mr. Obama is holding in battleground states between now and the election; others are scheduled for Pennsylvania, Ohio and Nevada -- all states, like Wisconsin, where Democrats are in tight races.
(Here in Wisconsin, Senator Russ Feingold is confronting a tough challenge from a businessman Ron Johnson; although there was some speculation that Mr. Feingold would not want to be seen with Mr. Obama, he did show up here Tuesday night.)
Mr. Obama is also appearing in more intimate settings. He began Tuesday morning in Albuquerque, where he visited the home of a disabled veteran and schoolteacher as part of what the White House is calling a series of ''backyard conversations.''
The White House intends the visits -- two more are scheduled this week -- as a way for Mr. Obama to reconnect with voters and talk to them about the economy, but Tuesday's visit brought an unusual twist: a question from a woman who asked Mr. Obama why he is a Christian. With conservative pundits questioning Mr. Obama's faith, he seemed to welcome it.
''I'm a Christian by choice,'' he said. ''My family, frankly, they weren't folks who went to church every week. My mother was one of the most spiritual people I knew, but she didn't raise me in the church. So I came to my Christian faith later in life, and it was because the precepts of Jesus Christ spoke to me in terms of the kind of life that I would want to lead. Being my brother's and sister's keeper, treating others as they would treat me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama made a stop at a coffee house in Albuquerque early on Tuesday before heading to Wisconsin to attend a rally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (73%); LIBRARIES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); SONG WRITING (60%); METAL DETECTORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (89%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (59%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



805 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: A University Hosts the President and Signs Up for the Politics, Too

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
MADISON, Wis.
Would it be all right if the Leader of the Free World stopped by your campus for a little while?
He wants to surround himself with hordes of enthusiastic young people, toss out a few oratorical gems -- as you know, he's got the gift -- and reinvigorate his anxious political party. The Secret Service has the usual security concerns, of course, but we'll pay for any inconvenience. Interested?
The offer by the Democratic National Committee to the University of Wisconsin-Madison would seem like a no-brainer, conjuring images of university officials ostentatiously checking their calendars before saying: It just so happens that the Badgers of Wisconsin are free that day.
The offer, though, forced the university's chancellor, Biddy Martin, to weigh the many benefits of a visit by a sitting president against the naked political purpose of that visit. After all, the event would be a kickoff rally for Democrats as they approach the midterm elections, and Barack Obama would be appearing as a party leader more than as a president. 
In the end, the university said: Yes!
Tuesday afternoon, thousands of students crammed cheek-by-jowl into the university's Library Mall, both to see a world leader up close and to provide that same world leader with a photo-op backdrop exuberant enough to offset reports of his flagging popularity.
But his visit wasn't an easy call. Before the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System and the Democratic National Committee signed a contract last week, in which the committee agreed to pay $10,500 to cover expenses, Ms. Martin had to satisfy herself that it was the right thing to do.
''There was never a question whether we wanted President Obama to come to our campus,'' Ms. Martin said. ''That was clear. But the question was how to do this in a way that was fair to everyone in the community.''
Over the decades, two other sitting presidents have visited the campus of this famously liberal, progressive university in this famously liberal, progressive city. They, too, had their reasons.
In the fall of 1932, President Herbert Hoover, a Republican, spoke at an event that a university fact sheet says was ''somewhat marred by the president's tired voice and a faulty amplifier.'' The Depression would tire any president, especially one who probably sensed that in days he would be soundly voted out of office.
And in May 1950, President Harry S. Truman delivered a ''peace'' address in which he said that only together can nations build a strong defense against aggression. A few weeks later, the Korean War broke out.
Now, 60 years later, a third president was offering to visit, not to deliver a policy speech on the weak economy or the quicksand war, but to begin a four-city effort to rally Democrats in key states. Why Madison?
Derrick Plummer, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, provided this answer by e-mail: ''President Obama has always had a special place in his heart for the city of Madison. And, as you know, President Obama visited the city in 2008 and is glad to be a part of the enthusiasm and activism that has been a strong tradition of the University of Wisconsin.''
True, President Obama may well remember that night in February 2008, when a series of wins in state primaries all but ensured that he would be the Democratic candidate for president, and thousands wildly cheered during his victory speech in Madison.
He may also have heard how, on election night, throngs of University of Wisconsin students spontaneously gathered in the streets to celebrate. Ariel Shapiro, a junior who works for one of the student newspapers, The Daily Cardinal, remembers how hundreds of students climbed Bascom Hill to serenade the statue of Abraham Lincoln with ''God Bless America.''
''It was ridiculous,'' she says, still smiling at the sweet memory.
Finally, the president may also have taken note of the relatively low unemployment rate in Madison, which stands at 5.5 percent. In Racine, a little more than 100 miles to the east, unemployment is at 14.1 percent, while in Beloit, 55 miles to the south, it's at 15.3 percent.
So, Badgers, how about it?
Ms. Martin, who has been chancellor since September 2008, was thrilled by the chance. You couldn't buy this kind of educational experience, or, quite frankly, this kind of publicity; it's an honor. But she worried about the fairness of having campus life disrupted by a political event. A day or so of fretting followed.
Then, amid the many documents and manuals that provide guidance in the administration of a campus of 42,000 students and 21,000 faculty and staff members, someone uncovered a written policy called ''The Use of University Facilities for Political Purposes.'' Among other things, it said that each major political party can hold one event on campus during an election period.
And don't forget: Library Mall, where the Democrats wanted to hold their rally, is a vibrant nerve center for the university and the city, with a rich tradition of political events and free speech.
Ms. Martin and the Board of Regents signed on, then received validation of that decision in the plans of students and faculty members to gather after the political rally to debate everything from the economy and the wars to the political process itself. The only dissent has come by e-mail from a couple of alumni, objecting to the use of the campus for the rally.
''This is a campus that values political speech,'' Ms. Martin said.
But political speech comes at a cost. It meant the complete or partial closing of several buildings, from the University Bookstore to the spectacular State Historical Society building. It meant a day off for all the food vendors in Library Mall. It meant the cancellation of the 5 p.m. Mass at the St. Paul's University Catholic Center.
It also meant enough logistical challenges to spawn a doctoral dissertation on time management, or homeland security, or Kafka. Setting up magnetometers. Removing all bikes. Establishing a plan for protesters. Banning laptop computers, drink bottles, sharp objects, and bags or purses larger than a sheet of paper.
Oh, and portable lavatories. ''Specifically, about the number of porta-potties,'' Ms. Martin said. ''There's a potential difference of opinion of how many will be needed.''
This and other matters were ultimately resolved. By 3 p.m., a line a mile long and three and four people deep was disappearing into the distant horizon of University Avenue, an assertion that at least here in Madison, the president still rocks. Campus police estimated an overflowing crowd of 26,500.
As the crowd waited, political ideas and conspiracy theories bounced among them like so many beach balls.
Suddenly, the signal was given and the crowd rushed, thwarting many who had waited patiently in line. They passed through the banks of magnetometers and poured onto the Library Mall, where the leaves on the trees were turning and the sharpshooters on the roofs were watching.
They played music. They recited the Pledge of Allegiance. They cheered earnest student speakers. Then, shortly after 6, President Obama appeared in shirtsleeves and no tie, taking his place in front of a collection of students adorned in Badger red. A sustained roar, or release, followed.
''Hello, Wisconsin!'' the Leader of the Free World said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeted supporters on Tuesday at a campaign rally at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); KOREAN WAR (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (92%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



806 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Fall Doesn't Settle Who Rules In Russia

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- President Dmitri A. Medvedev has long endured questions about whether he truly rules Russia or is merely a figurehead manipulated by Vladimir V. Putin, the former -- and possibly future -- president. On Tuesday, Mr. Medvedev moved to quiet those doubts by ousting a heavyweight political rival, Moscow's longtime mayor, who had tried in recent weeks to cast Mr. Medvedev as a weakling unfit to run the Kremlin.
Mr. Medvedev's decision, perhaps the most consequential of his tenure, seemed intended to make clear to Russia's political class that he was an assertive leader and a viable candidate for president in 2012. His authority has been increasingly undermined because Mr. Putin has pointedly refused to exclude seeking a return to the presidency himself. 
''Today, it looks like Medvedev is finally deploying the powers of his own presidency and, for the first time in two and half years, is demonstrating that he is the one who is the president,'' said Leonid Radzikhovsky, a political commentator in Moscow. ''This is how it is being perceived around the country. It is also a serious signal about his objectives in 2012.''
But as is often the case in Russia, where top politicians' intentions are difficult to divine, there is an alternate view of the fallout from the removal of the mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov. Mr. Medvedev is instead described as having been damaged because it took him too long to dismiss Mr. Luzhkov, who dominated the Moscow government for nearly two decades.
Some politicians have said they suspected that Mr. Medvedev did not act more resolutely because he had to lobby for Mr. Putin's approval, and Mr. Putin has a better rapport with Mr. Luzhkov.
In other words, in the end, Mr. Putin, the current prime minister, is still the boss.
Leonid Gozman, a leader of the Right Cause, a liberal political party with ties to the Kremlin, said he was struck by the contrast between how Mr. Medvedev and President Obama had handled disparaging comments by subordinates.
Mr. Obama immediately relieved Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, commander of American forces in Afghanistan, of his duties. Mr. Luzhkov, whose remarks about Mr. Medvedev appeared in a newspaper commentary in early September, lingered almost a month.
''One of the theories here -- and it is just one of many theories -- is that Putin used this to wound Medvedev, so that people would understand that without Putin's say, nothing happens,'' Mr. Gozman said.
In fact, on Tuesday, Mr. Putin did little to quell the speculation about his motives. In comments after Mr. Luzhkov's dismissal was announced, Mr. Putin praised the mayor before saying that he supported Mr. Medvedev's decision.
''Yuri Mikhailovich Luzhkov did a lot for the development of Moscow,'' Mr. Putin said. He later added, ''But it is clear that relations between the mayor of Moscow and the president were not working out.''
Mr. Medvedev, who was on a state visit to China, did not offer any such kind words.
''It is difficult to imagine a situation under which a governor and the president of Russia, as the chief executive, can continue to work together, when the president has lost confidence in the leader of a region,'' Mr. Medvedev said. Legally, the Moscow mayor's position is equal in rank to that of a regional governor.
Mr. Putin, who was barred from running for a third consecutive term as president, has not said whether he will be a candidate in 2012. Both he and Mr. Medvedev have said they will consult about who will run, while indicating that they will not compete against each other.
On Tuesday, Mr. Medvedev appointed a current deputy mayor of Moscow to head the city temporarily while he considers a replacement for Mr. Luzhkov.
Mr. Luzhkov did not immediately issue a statement, but he did send a letter to Mr. Medvedev on Monday night that surfaced in the Russian news media on Tuesday. In the letter, he accused people around Mr. Medvedev of mounting a concerted attempt to defeat him.
''Your administration, on its own or not, has brought this political situation to a deadlock,'' Mr. Luzhkov wrote. He added that Mr. Medvedev was being told, ''If you don't fire Luzhkov, you are a weak leader.''
The conflict between the president and mayor was unusual here, because such defiance rarely erupts in public. Mr. Luzhkov had been a towering figure in Russia in the two decades since the collapse of the Soviet Union, but his criticism of Mr. Medvedev -- and his apparent effort to create a rift between Mr. Medvedev and Mr. Putin -- rattled the tightly controlled government here. Frictions burst into the open in early September after Mr. Luzhkov published his official commentary suggesting that Mr. Medvedev had dithered over plans for a highway between Moscow and St. Petersburg, and also seeming to call for Mr. Putin to return to the presidency.
At the same time, Mr. Luzhkov was being attacked for staying on vacation in August while Moscow was roasting in a heat wave and choking on smoke from nearby forest and peat fires.
Mr. Luzhkov, 74, a gruff, plain-spoken politician with a fondness for keeping bees and wearing a Soviet worker's cap, rose to office in 1992 and has spearheaded a makeover of the city that has turned it into a glittering symbol of Russia's resurgence. Moscow has more than 10 million people, and its lively economy attracts job seekers not only from all over Russia, but from other former Soviet republics as well.
Even so, Mr. Luzhkov has been derided for behaving like an autocrat, muzzling dissent and allowing corruption to flourish. During his tenure, his wife, Yelena Baturina, has obtained much of the construction business in Moscow, becoming one of the world's richest women in the process.
Moscow's mayoralty was once an elective office, but when Mr. Putin was president he pushed through changes that made it an appointed post -- part of his effort to consolidate authority in the Kremlin. The mayor, like other regional leaders, is expected to be a loyalist who staunchly supports the Kremlin and the ruling United Russia party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dmitri A. Medvedev, left, and Yuri M. Luzhkov at a City Day observance in Moscow this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXEY SAZONOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 In May, Mayor Luzhkov and Vladimir V. Putin laid a cornerstone for a war memorial in Moscow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL METZEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (72%); LOBBYING (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



807 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Aid to Veterans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Wars' Continuing Toll'' (editorial, Sept. 21):
Thank you for calling attention to the urgent problem facing our military service members as a result of their wartime service. Those of us who have worked ''in the trenches'' as private nonprofits, providing a safety net for psychological services to our troops and their loved ones, hear stories almost daily of returning service members who will not or cannot use the existing government services. Their ''invisible wounds'' are causing untold levels of pain to their families and to our communities. 
The increasing rates of suicide, homelessness and unemployment are an unacceptable result. To their credit the Defense Department and the V.A. are now trying mightily to make up for the gross deficiencies in their level of preparation for these numbers of mental injuries.
Six years ago when the Soldiers Project began its work providing mental health care on a completely confidential and pro bono basis, we knew that the need would be great but nevertheless have been overwhelmed by the numbers of service members, vets and family members in need of help. This is a national problem and should be faced by the country as a whole.
This means not only increased financing for staff and program activities at the Defense Department and the V.A., but also financing for the several nonprofit groups like ours that try to fill the gaps for those who are unable to make use of the existing government services.
Our service members and their loved ones deserve the best, and they need readily available care. With an infusion of funds, the private nonprofit sectors could expand their safety net and perhaps spare families from unnecessary suffering.
Judith Broder Studio City, Calif., Sept. 22, 2010
The writer, a doctor, is founder and director of the Soldiers Project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SUICIDE (71%); HOMELESSNESS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



808 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
INDIA BRACES FOR VERDICT
On Religious Site
The legal battle dating to 1950 between Hindus and Muslims over a religious site in the city of Ayodhya began as a little-noticed title dispute. With a ruling expected soon, the case has become something altogether different: a test of India's secular soul. PAGE A6
SPEECH SHOWS SPLIT ON TALKS 
Sharp differences within the Israeli government over peace negotiations played out in the unusual setting of the United Nations General Assembly, with Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman using the podium to say that peace with the Palestinians required an intermediate agreement lasting ''decades'' and that the issue of Iran should be addressed first. PAGE A12
PREPARING TALIBAN TALKS
Repeating his determination to find a peaceful solution to the war, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan named a 70-member peace council, a long-awaited announcement that was the government's first concrete step to open formal contacts with the Taliban. PAGE A8
REVIVING A SWISS TONGUE
Romansh, a regional Swiss language, is the direct descendant of the Latin that was spoken in the mountain valleys at the height of the Roman empire. Only about 60,000 people speak Romansh, but it is experiencing a tenuous rebirth thanks to grass-roots revival programs and government support. PAGE A11
Israel Stops Boat Headed to Gaza A12
Mudslide Buries Mexican Homes A6
National
SUPREME COURT TAKES CASES
On Rights of Corporations
The Supreme Court will continue to explore the limits of corporations' constitutional rights, adding cases to its docket that will test the scope of companies' rights to due process and privacy. PAGE A20
CHANGING EARMARK RULES
Leaders from corporate lobbyists and government watchdog groups came together to seek a reworking of the rules governing Congressional earmarks in an effort to remove the taint of corruption that surrounds billions in Congressional set-asides for favored projects. PAGE A19
JUDGE HALTS EXECUTION
Facing sharp questions from a federal appellate panel and concerns about a drug used in lethal injections, a federal judge in California has canceled what would have been California's first execution in more than four years. PAGE A16
TREND AWAY FROM MARRIAGE
The United States crossed an important marital threshold in 2009, with the number of young adults who have never married surpassing, for the first time in more than a century, the number who were married. PAGE A15
DEBATE IN CALIFORNIA RACE
With polls showing a tight race and a large block of undecided voters still in play, the two major party candidates for California governor met in the first of three debates, with the state's economy and its deep financial problems dominating the discussion. PAGE A19
New York
JAIL CONFESSION IS RETOLD
In Triple-Murder Trial
Prosecutors rested their case in the home invasion and triple murder in Cheshire, Conn., three years ago, after a corrections officer testified about a confusing jailhouse confession by the defendant. PAGE A22
Business
REVILED IN AMERICA,
BP Finds Friends in Russia
Russian companies are talking to BP about buying billions of dollars in oil fields and other assets to help it pay its gulf cleanup and compensation costs. BP's warm relationship with the Russians is a startling turnaround given how grim the situation was two years ago. PAGE B1
Sports
SAFETY OF HELMETS
Vs. the Ritual of Hats
Helmets are required in equestrian sports that involve jumping, including eventing and show jumping. In the highest levels of dressage, a balletlike test of a sensitive horse's training and gaits, riders wear a top hat. But many riders are beginning to wear helmets. PAGE B13
Arts
THESE ARE THEIR STORIES,
Only in Los Angeles
''Law & Order: Los Angeles'' is not a sequel to the original series, which was canceled last May after 20 years. But Alessandra Stanley writes that it is a worthy heir. PAGE C1
Dining
HOME KITCHEN,
City Inspection
Many people have been thinking about kitchen sanitation since July, when the New York City health department started requiring restaurants to post letter grades signifying their inspection scores. But has this increased awareness of restaurant cleanliness had any trickle-down effect to our own kitchens? PAGE D1
Op-ed
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); VERDICTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DUE PROCESS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); MURDER (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CLASSICS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TRENDS (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); MOUNTAINS (66%); MARRIAGE (65%); CORRUPTION (50%); LANDSLIDES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



809 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO2) WAR DON DON (2010) In the Krio language of Sierra Leone, ''War Don Don'' is the name of the civil war that raged from 1991 to 2001, during which the Revolutionary United Front fought to overthrow the ruling government. In 2003 the United Nations and the government of Sierra Leone spent more than $200 million to set up a Special Court -- the world's first international war crimes ''hybrid tribunal'' -- in an effort to seek justice and reconciliation. This documentary from Rebecca Richman Cohen, a Harvard Law School graduate who interned for a defense team at the court, follows the war crimes trial of Issa Hassan Sesay, above left, the highest-ranking survivor of the rebel group. It also explores both the limits of international justice and the contradictions in a man who dealt in blood diamonds, commanded child soldiers and oversaw mass atrocities against civilians -- but who is also credited by some with single-handedly ending the war. 
In 2009 Mr. Sesay was convicted of 16 of 18 charges and sentenced to 52 years in prison. The movie ''is less an investigation of guilt for war crimes than a contemplation of the viability of international courts,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times. ''The film suggests that the hundreds of millions of American and British funds spent to build the court might better have been used to revive Sierra Leone's shattered economy.''
8 P.M. (CW) AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODEL The photographer Matthew Rolston offers his professional opinion following photo shoots on a roller coaster and under water.
8 P.M. (Food Network) FOOD NETWORK UNWRAPPED 2 Marc Summers reveals the secrets of a few Food Network stars in behind-the-scenes visits to Paula Deen's home in Savannah, Ga.; the sets of Tyler Florence's and Sandra Lee's shows; and the ''Iron Chef'' kitchen stadium.
8 P.M. (Fox) HELL'S KITCHEN The 13 remaining contestants must prepare breakfast for 50 emergency medical technicians and make ravioli from scratch. Later, a chef's ineptitude nearly bungles a diner's marriage proposal.
8 P.M. (13, 49) THE TENTH INNINGKen Burns and Lynn Novick's two-part film concludes with a look at the new generation of international players who have dominated the game -- like the Dominican pitcher Pedro Martinez and the Japanese right fielder Ichiro Suzuki -- as well as the rivalry between the Yankees and the Red Sox and the steroid controversy surrounding the career home run record of Barry Bonds.
8 P.M. (NBC) UNDERCOVERS Steven (Boris Kodjoe) and Samantha (Gugu Mbatha-Raw), left, must rescue a scientist in Pakistan who has been kidnapped by the private security firm hired to guarantee her safety. Her captors' goal: to force her to build a bomb that they can use in an attack.
9 P.M. (CNBC) TRASH INC: THE SECRET LIFE OF GARBAGE Americans produce 250 million tons of waste a year, and those who collect, recycle, repurpose and dispose of others' debris are growing rich, raking in an estimated $52 billion annually. Carl Quintanilla reports on what happens to our garbage after we throw it out, starting in the streets of New York City, where nearly 12,000 tons -- as well as 2,000 tons of recyclables -- are collected each day and taken by train and truck to landfills from Pennsylvania to South Carolina. He also examines the environmental impact of debris, from the enormous wasteland of trash floating in the Pacific to garbage that is repurposed into clothing, carpets and even energy.
9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT When a rape victim (Jennifer Love Hewitt) claims she has been repeatedly attacked over the course of 15 years by the same man, Detective Benson goes in search of DNA evidence in precincts across the country that could help put the assailant behind bars. Her journey eventually leads her to Los Angeles, where she meets Detective Rex Winters (Skeet Ulrich) -- one of the stars of the new ''Law & Order: Los Angeles,'' at 10 -- who has information that could finally result in justice.
9 P.M. (ABC) MODERN FAMILY Gloria (Sofia Vergara) decides to pay tribute to her grandmother by cooking traditional Colombian meals, to the amusement of Jay (Ed O'Neill). But who has the last laugh? In ''Cougar Town,'' at 9:30, a forlorn Jules (Courteney Cox) prepares for life as an empty nester as Travis (Dan Byrd) packs up for college. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BASEBALL (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CHILD SOLDIERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); STEROIDS (60%); PARAMEDICS (60%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: PAULA DEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) SIERRA LEONE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



810 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTER FROM CONNECTICUT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: As a Senate Race Tightens, Wrestling Becomes a Campaign Issue

BYLINE: By PAUL BASS

 BODY:
Wrestling will become more than an overworked metaphor in the final rounds of the suddenly too-close-to-call race for Connecticut's open United States Senate seat. It will be part of Richard Blumenthal's closing argument in an election that many had thought he would win while barely breaking a sweat.
Mr. Blumenthal, the Democrat in the race, has seen his lead over Linda E. McMahon, the Republican nominee, shrink to 3 percentage points from 41 percentage points on Jan. 14, putting the latest results within the margin of error, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released on Tuesday.
In response to his slip in the polls, and to Democrats who have urged that he go on the offensive after allowing his opponent to define him as a career politician, Mr. Blumenthal has heightened his attacks on Ms. McMahon for her tenure in running World Wrestling Entertainment. 
Internal Democratic Party poll findings and negative press accounts about the W.W.E. may support that strategy, but voters in Connecticut, like their counterparts across the country, are not following conventional rules of campaign behavior this year.
Other poll numbers, as well as evidence from the campaign trail, suggest that a full-out attack on Ms. McMahon's career in the wrestling entertainment industry may not have as much impact as might be expected in a state that -- rightly or wrongly -- is considered a bastion of Yankee gentility.
Maura Downes, Mr. Blumenthal's campaign spokeswoman, confirmed that wrestling will continue to be a focus of his media strategy. ''It is especially important to us what happens outside the ring,'' she said. ''We're going to be making an issue of how she treated her workers.''
The campaign and the state Democratic Party have begun highlighting news reports about concussions and premature deaths among W.W.E. wrestlers, steroid use, and the company's reliance on hundreds of independent contractors who do not receive health care benefits.
Asked about the contractors at a recent news conference in New Haven, Ms. McMahon said that W.W.E. workers preferred that arrangement because it gave them more freedom. The campaign said that under Ms. McMahon's leadership, the W.W.E. raised the industry's health and safety standards.
A McMahon campaign spokesman, Ed Patru, said on Tuesday that the campaign is ready for the criticism. ''We'll absolutely be prepared to respond and set the record straight to the negative attacks,'' Mr. Patru said.
''Every day that our opponents are talking about wrestling and we're talking about jobs, we're moving up in the polls,'' he added. ''In every town and neighborhood in Connecticut, jobs are the No. 1 issue on people's minds.''
The Quinnipiac University Poll director, Douglas Schwartz, said some voters have responded to the wrestling-related attacks on Ms. McMahon, but most have not. In a Quinnipiac poll released on Sept. 14, 33 percent of likely voters said that Ms. McMahon's wrestling industry background would make them less likely to vote for her, 20 percent said it would make them more likely to support her and 47 percent said it would have no effect. Mr. Schwartz said those numbers are similar among the independent voters whose support is considered crucial in the election.
The poll also found that few Connecticut voters are waiting to make up their minds. All but 1 percent of Democrats and about 4 percent of unaffiliated voters remain undecided, it found.
Mr. Blumenthal is leading among women, the poll found, and Ms. McMahon among men. And right now, Mr. Schwartz noted, ''men seem to be more energized than women'' to vote.
On the campaign trail, men often stop Ms. McMahon and ask to be photographed with her. It happened during a recent swing through the Naugatuck Valley, a stronghold of so-called Reagan Democrats, and again last week when Ms. McMahon toured New Haven's Fair Haven neighborhood, which is heavily Latino and solidly Democratic.
Aaron Vignola, a 21-year-old hair stylist, asked her about a W.W.E. video clip that one of Ms. McMahon's Republican opponents had highlighted in a television advertisement during the primary campaign. In what seemed like admiration, he asked Ms. McMahon if she had really kicked a wrestler between his legs.
''You know, W.W.E. is scripted entertainment,'' Ms. McMahon replied with a laugh.
Mr. Vignola said he has always voted Democratic, but he planned to vote for Ms. McMahon this year. He said that he was a fan of the W.W.E. So are many Latino and working-class voters: the W.W.E. television program ''Raw'' is the fifth most-watched prime-time show on cable among Hispanic viewers, according to the company's Web site.
The company's audience in general mirrors the angry working-class men who have replaced soccer moms as this election's most talked-about target group. W.W.E. reports that 65 percent of its audience is male and that 74 percent of the visitors to its Web site have an average household income of $75,000 or less.
Could wrestling, for all its controversy, actually help Ms. McMahon?
Her backers appear not to think so: A few days after an extended clip of her crotch-kicking act appeared online in a New Haven Independent article, the W.W.E. had it removed from YouTube.
At least one Blumenthal supporter questions, though, whether the campaign's focus on wrestling will have an impact.
''Under normal circumstances, her background and the way she has been portrayed would hurt her,'' said the supporter, Thomas D'Amore, a former Republican state chairman who went on to serve as Gov. Lowell P. Weicker's chief of staff. ''But that's yesterday. I don't know about today.
''I'm afraid people have gotten very, very cynical. They happen to think this is all entertainment in any case -- by that I mean politics. For the most part independent voters are fed up in general with the state of politics.''
Otherwise, he said, ''they wouldn't be independents and up for grabs at this stage.''
Yesterday's Pariah Mr. Blumenthal did get a reprieve from bad news on Sunday, when former President Bill Clinton headlined a rousing campaign rally for the faithful at New Haven's Wilbur Cross High School.
The event was a vivid rendition of this campaign season's Tale of Two Presidents: a former president scorned by his vice president in the 2000 presidential race campaign trail is now the hottest Democratic campaign; and a sitting president embraced by Democrats in 2008 is shunned two years later. Mr. Blumenthal stood grinning beside Mr. Clinton on stage for more than a half hour on Sunday. His campaign invited over 1,000 people to the event. Mr. Blumenthal hailed Mr. Clinton's ''historic courage and leadership of this nation and this world.'' By contrast, Mr. Blumenthal scheduled no public appearances with President Obama when he headlined a Sept. 16 campaign fund-raiser; Mr. Blumenthal even held a news conference before the event in which he criticized Mr. Obama's handling of bank bailouts, economic stimulus and even parts of the health care overhaul.
Dueling Polls Mr. Blumenthal's campaign sought to mitigate the latest Quinnipiac poll results on Tuesday morning by releasing the results of its own internal poll, by the Democratic firm of Greenberg Quinlan Rosner, showing Mr. Blumenthal 12 points ahead. Quinnipiac did call the Democratic gubernatorial primary wrong in August; in that instance, it is believed that many voters moved to support the winner, Dannel P. Malloy, at the last moment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); WRESTLING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); ATHLETES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); STEROIDS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



811 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A Megamerger: Pop Culture and the Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD -- Oliver Stone's new movie, ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,'' is not the only cultural artifact of the moment to feature the financial crisis.
Rappers like Young Jeezy rhyme about ''The Recession,'' while some Barnes & Noble stores have entire bookshelves devoted to what can only be called crisis lit. On his latest album, Neil Young, the weathered rocker, intones, ''There's a bailout coming, but it's not for me. It's for all these creeps watching tickers on TV.''
Even ''Despicable Me,'' an animated movie for children, finds room to wink at Wall Street. (What does the sign say on the Bank of Evil? ''Formerly Lehman Brothers.'') 
Not since the Great Depression has an economic upheaval coursed through so many avenues of American popular culture. Over the last few years, Homer Simpson has lost his family's home to foreclosure, while the recession has taken its toll on the housekeeper on the new sitcom ''Melissa and Joey,'' and the desperate housewives of Wisteria Lane.
Several new novels, like Janelle Brown's ''This Is Where We Live,'' incorporate the housing crisis into their plots. And that's not counting the half-dozen or so films related to the financial crisis that are scheduled for release.
''This is one of those events where you say it will ripple through the world of art,'' said Penn Badgley, the ''Gossip Girl'' star who plays a junior trader in ''Margin Call,'' a financial thriller. ''It has a global focus, but also one that affected everybody. There is not a single person that I have met who hasn't lost money or been forced to tighten up spending in some way.''
Today's financial pop atmosphere is also distinctive because the events that inspired it are so fresh.
''What is really striking about the popular culture of the Depression is how long it took for the Depression to show up,'' said Jackson Lears, a cultural historian at Rutgers. ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' for example, the gripping tale of farmers migrating from the Dust Bowl, was not published until 1939, and ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' where James Stewart staves off a run on the local bank, did not reach movie theaters until 1946.
Instead, the movies and music of the Depression era provided escapist entertainment: screwball comedies and fantasy films like ''The Wizard of Oz,'' the elegant dancing of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers and silky Cole Porter melodies.
The cultural references of the current recession have a realistic and ironic bite. Take ''The Other Guys,'' a recent police comedy starring Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg. Mr. Ferrell's character chides a Securities and Exchange Commission agent whom he is assisting on a financial fraud case. ''I hear you guys are the best with these kinds of investigations,'' he snaps, ''except for Enron and A.I.G. and Madoff.''
Schadenfreude is another driving force behind the current wave of financial crisis references, suggests Alexandra Lebenthal, the author of ''The Recessionistas'' and a fixture of the Manhattan finance and society scenes.
''We like to see the people with houses all over the world, unbelievable fur coats or cars take a fall,'' she said. ''There is no better image of that than when you see Wall Street C.E.O.'s testifying before Congress with people wearing masks with pigs' faces on them sitting behind them.''
Mr. Stone, the director, said he believed that the crisis brought closure to ''the apotheosis of greed'' that took shape during the Reagan years, when he created the original film. ''This was a good moment to bring back Gordon Gekko. It's a bookend and an end of era,'' he said. ''It's like the bubble popped and people said enough.''
To be sure, it may all just be a matter of timing: Publishing and movie executives approved many of today's projects two years ago when the crisis was the biggest news story in the world.
And art doesn't always imitate life. Sometimes the opposite is true. The financial reform legislation, for example, was rife with allusions to popular culture. Lawmakers referred to a strict ban on insider trading of commodities as the ''Eddie Murphy rule'' after his role in the 1980s comedy ''Trading Places.'' And something known as the ''Hotel California'' provision was intended, with apologies to the Eagles, to prevent Wall Street firms from ''checking out'' of their bank holding company status once they ''checked in.''
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REFLECTING THE ERA: From left, the book ''This Is Where We Live'' by Janelle Brown
Oliver Stone, director of the movie ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps''
the rapper Young Jeezy
the movie ''Margin Call''
''The Recessionistas,'' a novel by Alexandra Lebenthal
and the singer Neil Young. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT, RANDOM HOUSE
EVAN AGOSTINI/AGOEV, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING
 JUDI BOTTONI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); FILM (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); HISTORY (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); ANIMATION (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); MUSIC (60%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



812 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: With Fewer Nasty Battles, One Firm Profits Less

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Brutal proxy fights that pit shareholders against executives are the lifeblood of IVS Associates, a private firm with a headlock on the high-stakes business of tallying shareholder votes in corporate battles.
But as proxy fights show some signs of waning and competitors emerge, IVS is facing a struggle of its own: how to maintain and expand its business.
''The economic downturn has changed the size and scope of proxy fights, so our earnings have been affected,'' said William A. Marsh, the president and sole owner of IVS. He declined to discuss earnings or revenue. 
The battle that ensued when Hewlett-Packard bought Compaq in 2002, a megabrawl for which IVS counted the votes needed to seal the deal, earned IVS an estimated $1 million and put the tiny firm, based in Wilmington, Del., in the spotlight.
But with an economic damper on the mergers and acquisitions activity that breeds such fights, ''it's now small stuff,'' said Mr. Marsh, 53. He was referring to ''small biotech companies, where a chair has been thrown off the board, and stuff like wars of personality.''
Since its founding in 2000, IVS, short for Independent Voting Services, has tabulated the votes for more than 90 percent of all proxy fights in corporate America, giving it a virtual monopoly. Typically hired by the management of Fortune 500 companies like Target, Motorola and Disney for proxy fights, the firm prides itself on its independence and accuracy.
''If you call other people in my industry and ask them for any one person that could take our place, you will not get any names,'' Mr. Marsh said with confidence.
But the intensity and size, and thus profitability, of proxy fights have faded in recent years, despite a recent flurry of battles that notably includes the billionaire investor Ronald W. Burkle's challenge to the board of Barnes & Noble, which Mr. Burkle lost this week.
Looking beyond proxy fights, IVS is embracing less sexy work. Think tabulating votes for director seats at professional associations like the National Society of Hispanic M.B.A.'s, counting votes at routine annual shareholder meetings and auditing votes tallied by other securities-processing and investor communications firms for corporations, mutual funds and retirement systems.
''We'll still do 30 proxy fights a year, but the majority of our stuff is audit'' of tabulations by other firms, Mr. Marsh said.
A competitor, Lang Johnston, the chief executive of Corporate Election Services in Pittsburgh, said, ''If you live by the proxy fight, you die by it; their revenue is probably like a roller coaster.''
While not required to do so, corporations like to have an independent party certify votes in proxy fights, now more than ever since a new Securities and Exchange Commission rule makes it easier for shareholders to nominate directors.
''Companies want tabulation beyond reproach; it's key to show to a judge if a fight goes to litigation,'' said Mr. Marsh, whose firm created the industry of independently certifying proxy votes. ''There's an intrinsic value in having a totally independent signature.''
But sometimes, there is also a cost. In 2008, a client, CSX, lost a bitter fight against two hedge funds that sought to install members on the railroad company's board. IVS, which counted the votes and certified that the funds had won, refused to consider CSX's pleas for a vote recount based on new arguments CSX raised after the polls closed.
Mr. Marsh argued that doing so would have violated regulatory statutes. CSX is no longer a client.
IVS, which has only five full-time employees, is facing competition for even its less glamorous work. One competitive threat is from stock transfer agents, the back-office companies that process trades, maintain shareholder records and mail financial and legal statements, interest payments, dividends, proxies and other materials to shareholders and regulators. Some agents are pushing into the business of tabulating the votes of scores of registered shareholders, or mom-and-pop stockowners, and not just ''street'' shareholders, the brokers and financial institutions that own stock on behalf of investors.
Another is Broadridge Financial Solutions, an investor communications and tabulation company that mails proxy statements to more than 90 percent of all publicly traded companies. Broadridge acquired a stock transfer agency, StockTrans, this year and can offer a service that IVS does not.
The selling point of all these competitors, some of which are also cutting prices, is that their stock transfer and investor-communication services are bundled together, so a client does not have to use a separate niche firm like IVS for routine counting.
''The bigger picture is not tabulation'' - IVS's specialty - ''but proxy distribution and communications services,'' said Niels C. Holch, the executive director of the Shareholder Communications Coalition, an advocacy group for transfer agents and corporations.
But if Mr. Marsh is worried, he does not show it. He said he has no plans to sell the firm or take it public. ''I'm happy with the client base I have,'' he said. ''We're not in this to be millionaires.''
- Lynnley Browning
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



813 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Thrives Again, but Dark Shadows Loom

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
THIS summer, executives from the New York-based private equity firm SK Capital traveled to Houston to celebrate the first anniversary of their acquisition of a nylon manufacturing business. Soon they will have a bigger reason to uncork the Champagne.
The nylon manufacturer has announced plans to issue about $1 billion in debt, of which $922 million will be used to pay a dividend to SK. For SK, which paid $50 million in cash for the business, that is an astonishing almost 18-fold return in a little more than a year.
Yes, Wall Street's buyout barons, bruised and battered in the financial crisis, are back.
The private equity industry has emerged from a treacherous two years on relatively solid footing. Default rates among the companies they control have dropped sharply and many have tapped into robust debt markets to push back the huge amounts of debt coming due in the next couple of years. 
And private equity's deal-making machine is revving up again. Last month, 3G Capital struck a deal to take Burger King private in a $3.3 billion leveraged buyout. Other firms are prepping holdings for initial public offerings so they can return capital to their investors, who have seen little in the way of profits in recent years.
''It's astonishing how quickly it's turned,'' said Kirk Radke, a lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis. ''Most people a year ago were focused on their portfolio companies and internally focused. What we're seeing now, across the board, is that our clients are very busy.''
Private equity, however, may soon be facing its gravest challenge yet. Its most important constituents - the large public pension funds that provide it with more than half its capital - are weighing whether or not to stick with private equity in the coming years.
''The big test is how the investments made during the boom are going to play out and it's too soon to tell,'' said Joseph Dear, chief investment officer for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the nation's largest state pension fund. Calpers has significant exposure to the mega-buyouts struck between 2005 and 2007, which have largely languished during the economic slowdown.
''If the capital structures in those deals hold together, the returns will be good and demand will be strong. If the economic scenario worsens, and the returns are poor, investors will turn away from private equity,'' Mr. Dear said.
As deal activity has picked up, some private equity firms are turning to transactions whose merits have come under some criticism from their investor base.
Among them are so-called secondary buyouts, which involves passing a company from one private equity firm to another. There have been a flurry of these transactions this year, amounting to a record 25 percent of the value of all private equity deals, according to Thomson Reuters.
Recent large secondary buyouts include the Carlyle Group's sale of the health care company MultiPlan to BC Partners and Silver Lake for $3.1 billion and Bain Capital's $1 billion acquisition of Air Medical from Brockway Moran & Partners and MVP Capital Partners.
These deals hold great appeal in the private equity ecosystem, allowing sellers to book profits and buyers to deploy their billions of dollars of unused capital.
Investment banks, meanwhile, earn big fees on these deals by advising and lending money to finance the transactions.
Secondary buyouts also tend to be more expedient than the traditional route of an initial public offering, with its regulatory hassles and the vagaries of the market, or selling to a publicly traded company whose shareholders may object.
But secondary buyouts have a mixed reputation among private equity investors. The world's largest private equity firms share the same investor base: American public pension funds and foreign countries' investment vehicles, or sovereign wealth funds. In some instances, these investors are selling a company through one private equity firm and buying it - at a higher price - through another firm.
Calpers experienced this firsthand this summer, when the buyout shop TPG acquired Vertafore for $1.4 billion from the private equity firm Hellman & Friedman, which had owned the software provider since 2004. Hellman & Friedman and its co-owner, JMI Equity, earned more than four times their original investment on the deal. Calpers has big stakes in both the TPG fund that bought Vertafore and the Hellman & Friedman fund that bought it.
Mr. Dear, Calpers's chief investment officer, said he had mixed emotions about the Vertafore deal and other similar ones in his portfolio.
''We still have exposure to the company but at a higher valuation,'' Mr. Dear said. ''To me this isn't a sign of strength in the private equity business, but more a sign that firms must commit their capital before their investment period runs out.''
A spokesman for TPG declined to comment.
Margot Wirth, director of private equity investments at the California State Teachers' Retirement System, or Calstrs, the nation's second-largest pension fund, says she is also concerned about the increased number of these deals.
''Where we tend to scratch our heads is where a company is passed between two large firms with similar characteristics and skill sets,'' she said. ''You have to ask, what performance improvements will the new owners be able to make to the company that the previous owners already haven't made?''
Another hot button among the industry's critics is the resurgence of the dividend deal, or dividend recap.
This spring, Visant, the private equity-owned company that owns Jostens, the purveyor of yearbooks and school rings, issued debt to pay a dividend of $137 million to its owners, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and a buyout unit of Credit Suisse.
After efforts to sell the company failed, Visant issued a $1.25 billion term loan, of which $517 million was earmarked for another dividend payment. Taken with a similar deal in early 2006, K.K.R. and Credit Suisse have collected nearly $1 billion in dividends from Visant in recent years. K.K.R. and Credit Suisse declined to comment.
About 56 private equity-supported companies have issued about $23 billion in dividend debt this year, according to Leveraged Commentary & Data, a division of Standard & Poor's. On average, the dividends are returning the private equity firm's original investment, say analysts at the firm.
''From the private equity standpoint, the benefits are clear,'' said Steven Miller, managing director of Standard & Poor's L.C.D.. ''You get to take money off the table - in some cases, get all of your bait back - and you maintain your ownership of the company.''
At SK Capital, which invests primarily its own executives' money, the decision to issue the dividend-paying debt was partly based on the expected jump in tax rates on dividends that go into effect next year, said the firm's co-founder, Barry Siadat. He also says SK so improved the nylon manufacturer's operations that it can easily handle its new low levels of debt.
But critics of these so-called dividend recap deals say they only add strain, in terms of borrowed funds on the balance sheets of companies, at a time when the economic outlook remains cloudy.
''Dividend recaps are a concern and we definitely monitor them,'' Mr. Dear of Calpers said. ''If the economy sours from here, private equity firms could be looking at more distressed situations or possible bankruptcies.''
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES C. BEST JR.) (F1)
 CHART: On the Rise Again: After a two-year decline, deal making among private equity firms has increased so far this year. (Source: Thomson Reuters) (F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); NYLON (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%)

COMPANY: KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



814 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: The Regulatory Pregame: Laying Bets on the Winners

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
On Sunday afternoon, dozens of state regulators packed into a windowless conference room at a Marriott in Baltimore for a panel titled ''Navigating Reform: Where Do We Go From Here?''
The panelists included Washington regulators - the very people who will decide how to put to work the new Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul bill passed in July.
''What is the S.E.C. doing to define venture capital funds?'' one attendee asked Jennifer B. McHugh, a senior adviser to the Securities and Exchange Commission's chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro.
''And what about financial advisers?'' asked another audience member. 
To each such question - and there were many - Ms. McHugh's answers were both consistent and noncommittal: ''That is a good question, and we're working on it.''
Welcome to the moment of maximum uncertainty.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the nation's most comprehensive financial overhaul since the Great Depression, is now the law of the land. But with a few exceptions, like the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, much of the detail on how those new rules will work is in the hands of the Obama administration's financial regulators, who have been given enormous latitude to come up with the new rules of the road.
Compounding the uncertainty is the fact that the country is a little more than a month away from midterm elections, when Republicans are expected to gains seats, perhaps enough to take over the House of Representatives. Should that happen, a serious effort will most likely be made to roll back parts of the law, or at least minimize its effects.
Both John A. Boehner, the House minority leader, and Richard Shelby, the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, are on record calling for a repeal of the consumer bureau. Although that is highly unlikely, a Republican-controlled Congress would certainly push to limit its powers and regulatory reach.
Already, Wall Street has begun marshaling a battle plan to press a Republican-led Congress to ease some of the rules being drawn up, like restrictions on derivatives and proprietary trading.
Another target is the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, otherwise known as the bank tax. Originally meant to help pay back the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and rein in risk-taking, it has been met with grumbling by Wall Street. Republicans have been pledging privately to bankers that, should they win, they will seek to block it.
''This would be much more than a tax on banks,'' Thomas P. Quaadman, vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said in a statement. ''This tax would choke off consumers' access to credit and make our bad economic situation worse.''
Even without the specter of the midterms, putting the new rules into effect is very much a work in progress, and the stakes are high for consumers and for banks afraid that too many new hurdles will dent profits.
Here is a typical example that has received relatively little attention. Under the current law, a stockbroker can be defined as either a broker-dealer or an investment adviser. The latter is obligated to act in the customer's best interest; the former can operate under a less stringent standard. Because broker-dealers are not considered fiduciaries, they can sell a client products that are suitable, but not necessarily best, for the client.
Congress has asked the S.E.C. to study the differences in oversight between the categories and report back on the shortcomings of existing standards. Some Wall Street executives fear the S.E.C. will raise the standards for broker-dealers, limiting their firms' ability to sell in-house products that pull in millions of dollars of revenue. State regulators, however, generally want one rule that holds broker-dealers to the same fiduciary standard as investment bankers.
Some banks argue that too-strict rules may harm their ability to compete with global rivals.
''Large U.S. banks must be fully competitive with larger European and Asian banks in all spheres,'' Daniel Alpert, a founding partner of the investment bank Westwood Capital, said.
While the rule-making process is far from over, it is not too early to place bets on the likely winners and losers.
GOLDMAN SACHS Conventional wisdom dictates that Goldman comes out on top. Like other firms, Goldman is trying to get ahead of the new law instead of waiting for things to play out.
In a recent report, Guy Moszkowski, an analyst with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, said Goldman was building up its derivative brokerage operation to take advantage of new rules that would require it and others to trade some derivatives through regulated clearinghouses.
Still, the Dodd-Frank act has provisions that will nick Goldman's profits, including requiring the firm to shed lucrative proprietary trading operations and some private equity holdings. And the firm will need to post more capital to support the riskier assets that it holds. But most analysts say they think Goldman will again find other ways to profit.
The firm's biggest challenge may be the public relations blows resulting from the crisis. It has been called ''a great vampire squid'' by Rolling Stone and denounced in Congress, and it paid $550 million to settle civil fraud accusations over the sale of complex mortgage securities. The damage to its reputation could take years to repair.
JPMORGAN CHASE By far the biggest winner of the crisis, according to Mr. Moszkowski. JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns and assets of Washington Mutual on the cheap, expanding both its investment banking footprint and its deposit base. And while it will be hurt by the new rules, things could have been worse.
Like Citigroup, JPMorgan draws lots of revenue from consumer activities, leaving it open to new regulations on debit and credit cards. But the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has made it clear that the firm will adjust its charges accordingly.
''If you're a restaurant and you can't charge for the soda, you're going to charge more for the burger,'' he said in July.
MORGAN STANLEY Another clear winner. Though this year's profits lag last year's, the firm has rebuilt its trading business. Because it does little proprietary trading or private equity deal-making for its own book, the laws are unlikely to hurt its operations. But many of Morgan Stanley's assets, like mortgage-backed securities, are considered risky by regulators, which will most likely require the firm to post more capital.
CITIGROUP The firm will almost certainly be hurt by new regulations. Having needed several government bailouts, Citi still owes the taxpayers billions of dollars. But because so much of its revenue flows from consumer businesses, it will bear the brunt of many of the new laws, especially those tied to the consumer protection bureau. The new federal credit card rules alone could drain billions from the industry over the next five years.
Still, there is good news: Citi has more overseas business - out of the reach of American regulators - than some of its rivals.
BANK OF AMERICA The country's largest bank will be hit hard by the legislation, as credit and debit card rules will undoubtedly take a bite out of profits.
But it has little private equity and proprietary trading business, and the firm has been trimming what exposure it currently has. And thanks to its purchase of Merrill Lynch in 2008, its operations mix is much more diversified than before.
THE EXCHANGES The exchanges may end up handling the trading of derivatives, which currently are bought and sold over the counter, far from public eyes. But there is a potential fly in the ointment: Wall Street firms may be allowed to create their own exchangelike facilities for derivatives, excluding current exchanges. Expect a push from the finance industry here.
YOU There is a case that the public has been the biggest loser of all. Taxpayers lent billions of dollars to shore up the country's big banks, and are still waiting to be repaid. The markets have yet to return to precrisis levels. And consumers trying to get a loan are finding it a lot harder today.
But the public could also be a winner. Elizabeth Warren, appointed to set up the consumer protection bureau, will almost surely propose tough rules governing mortgages and credit cards, finally letting consumers make more informed choices.
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES C. BEST JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



815 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Plan for America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The G.O.P.'s 'Pledge' '' (editorial, Sept. 26): What's happened to the Republicans? Where is the party of George W. Romney, Dwight D. Eisenhower and a legion of others with whom we might not have always agreed but who cared about the future of the United States, not just about getting Republicans elected? Remember the Interstate highway system, a huge federal investment in infrastructure that President Eisenhower pioneered?
Where is a real plan for job growth in the ''Pledge to America,'' not just platitudes about smaller government and less regulation? Where is the legislation to encourage manufacturing in the United States? Where is a health plan that might indeed be better than the current one that actually addresses health coverage for millions with no insurance? 
Where is the investment in research and development that up-and-coming economies have used for their growth? Where is the legislation to encourage businesses to think long term, not just for this quarter?
We need an opposition party with a plan to help the country, to generate wealth for the majority, not just to continue to enrich the obscenely wealthy. And we need it soon.
John Schreiber Sudbury, Mass., Sept. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
A picture is worth a thousand words.
''A Pledge to America'' is full of photographs. In the foreground of those photographs I count 60 white men and 4 white women. In the backgrounds, many more white men and some white women are discernible. There are virtually no nonwhites.
Where are the Asians, African-Americans and other racial and ethnic groups? Is this America? Did the public relations consultant simply forget to include nonwhites in this document, or does the G.O.P. intentionally exclude nonwhites from its vision of America?
Thank you, G.O.P. leadership. You have given us a most telling proposal upon which to consider our votes.
Mark LeDoux Lahaina, Hawaii, Sept. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
It is hard to disagree with your editorial arguing that the G.O.P.'s pledge ''takes the country backward -- a place no one should want to go.'' But neither the Democratic Party nor its leader, President Obama, has presented a progressive alternative.
Franklin D. Roosevelt, at a moment during similar economic misery, energetically created jobs for both blue-collar and white-collar workers through the New Deal. And he warned the ''unscrupulous money changers'' that they would be called to account.
The current administration's stimulus package was too small and not properly directed to create jobs. If President Obama had attempted something on a grand scale to alleviate the widespread economic misery, he either would have succeeded or, if prevented by Republican filibusters, would have been able to direct our anger and frustration at their rightful target.
But Mr. Obama asked for half measures and got far less than half, and it isn't surprising that those who worked for his election are disgusted. That the Republicans who got us into this mess will benefit by his failure to lead with a progressive vision is indeed tragic.
David Richter Flushing, Queens, Sept. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
In their ''Pledge to America,'' the Republicans have articulated an agenda calling for smaller government, lower taxes and less regulation as the means to a ''more prosperous nation.''
Isn't this precisely the same agenda vigorously pursued by the Bush administration during its eight-year tenure? Implementation of this agenda destroyed the budget surplus generated during the Clinton administration, resulted in a staggering federal deficit of approximately $1.2 trillion and ultimately caused the catastrophic recession we are now enduring.
What rational person would want to revive this destructive policy?
Richard J. Weisberg Norwalk, Conn., Sept. 26, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Listen Up: Yes, I Feel Your Pain'' (Week in Review, Sept. 26):
You ask, referring to President Obama, ''Why can't he get his message out?''
If anything, the messaging problem is that President Obama and Democrats are not receiving the message. What will it take for them to realize that Americans want the brakes put on the expansion of government and spending?
By all means, address the messaging problem. A good place to start is with an acknowledgment that Americans are sending them a message.
Andrea Economos Scarsdale, N.Y., Sept. 26, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010



816 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: With Fewer Nasty Battles, One Firm Profits Less

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Brutal proxy fights that pit shareholders against executives are the lifeblood of IVS Associates, a private firm with a headlock on the high-stakes business of tallying shareholder votes in corporate battles.
But as proxy fights show some signs of waning and competitors emerge, IVS is facing a struggle of its own: how to maintain and expand its business.
''The economic downturn has changed the size and scope of proxy fights, so our earnings have been affected,'' said William A. Marsh, the president and sole owner of IVS. He declined to discuss earnings or revenue. 
The battle that ensued when Hewlett-Packard bought Compaq in 2002, a megabrawl for which IVS counted the votes needed to seal the deal, earned IVS an estimated $1 million and put the tiny firm, based in Wilmington, Del., in the spotlight.
But with an economic damper on the mergers and acquisitions activity that breeds such fights, ''it's now small stuff,'' said Mr. Marsh, 53. He was referring to ''small biotech companies, where a chair has been thrown off the board, and stuff like wars of personality.''
Since its founding in 2000, IVS, short for Independent Voting Services, has tabulated the votes for more than 90 percent of all proxy fights in corporate America, giving it a virtual monopoly. Typically hired by the management of Fortune 500 companies like Target, Motorola and Disney for proxy fights, the firm prides itself on its independence and accuracy.
''If you call other people in my industry and ask them for any one person that could take our place, you will not get any names,'' Mr. Marsh said with confidence.
But the intensity and size, and thus profitability, of proxy fights have faded in recent years, despite a recent flurry of battles that notably includes the billionaire investor Ronald W. Burkle's challenge to the board of Barnes & Noble, which Mr. Burkle lost this week.
Looking beyond proxy fights, IVS is embracing less sexy work. Think tabulating votes for director seats at professional associations like the National Society of Hispanic M.B.A.'s, counting votes at routine annual shareholder meetings and auditing votes tallied by other securities-processing and investor communications firms for corporations, mutual funds and retirement systems.
''We'll still do 30 proxy fights a year, but the majority of our stuff is audit'' of tabulations by other firms, Mr. Marsh said.
A competitor, Lang Johnston, the chief executive of Corporate Election Services in Pittsburgh, said, ''If you live by the proxy fight, you die by it; their revenue is probably like a roller coaster.''
While not required to do so, corporations like to have an independent party certify votes in proxy fights, now more than ever since a new Securities and Exchange Commission rule makes it easier for shareholders to nominate directors.
''Companies want tabulation beyond reproach; it's key to show to a judge if a fight goes to litigation,'' said Mr. Marsh, whose firm created the industry of independently certifying proxy votes. ''There's an intrinsic value in having a totally independent signature.''
But sometimes, there is also a cost. In 2008, a client, CSX, lost a bitter fight against two hedge funds that sought to install members on the railroad company's board. IVS, which counted the votes and certified that the funds had won, refused to consider CSX's pleas for a vote recount based on new arguments CSX raised after the polls closed.
Mr. Marsh argued that doing so would have violated regulatory statutes. CSX is no longer a client.
IVS, which has only five full-time employees, is facing competition for even its less glamorous work. One competitive threat is from stock transfer agents, the back-office companies that process trades, maintain shareholder records and mail financial and legal statements, interest payments, dividends, proxies and other materials to shareholders and regulators. Some agents are pushing into the business of tabulating the votes of scores of registered shareholders, or mom-and-pop stockowners, and not just ''street'' shareholders, the brokers and financial institutions that own stock on behalf of investors.
Another is Broadridge Financial Solutions, an investor communications and tabulation company that mails proxy statements to more than 90 percent of all publicly traded companies. Broadridge acquired a stock transfer agency, StockTrans, this year and can offer a service that IVS does not.
The selling point of all these competitors, some of which are also cutting prices, is that their stock transfer and investor-communication services are bundled together, so a client does not have to use a separate niche firm like IVS for routine counting.
''The bigger picture is not tabulation'' - IVS's specialty - ''but proxy distribution and communications services,'' said Niels C. Holch, the executive director of the Shareholder Communications Coalition, an advocacy group for transfer agents and corporations.
But if Mr. Marsh is worried, he does not show it. He said he has no plans to sell the firm or take it public. ''I'm happy with the client base I have,'' he said. ''We're not in this to be millionaires.''
- Lynnley Browning
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



817 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Christie's Tunnel Vision

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has made a national name for himself by slashing spending on education and other vital services. New Jersey's children and other vulnerable residents are paying the price. Now he wants to stall -- and perhaps cancel -- one of the most important transportation projects in the country: a new railway tunnel under the Hudson River linking New Jersey and Midtown Manhattan. 
If Mr. Christie pulls out, billions of dollars pledged by the federal government and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will go elsewhere, thousands of new construction jobs will be lost and the region's economic future could be hobbled. That makes no sense at all, especially for a governor who talks so passionately about the need for economic growth.
For decades, planners have called for another tunnel to relieve railroad congestion between New Jersey and New York. Two years ago, construction finally began with $600 million, so far, spent in tunneling and other work in New Jersey. To continue the project, Washington has promised $3 billion. The Port Authority is coming up with another $3 billion, about half of which is money normally dedicated to New York State, and New Jersey is supposed to commit at least $2.7 billion in stimulus and turnpike funds.
New Jersey Transit and Amtrak trains using the old tunnel carry 170,000 passengers a day, and there is no room for more trains, especially during peak hours. Planners predict that over the next 20 years, ridership on New Jersey Transit will double, if there is a way for the trains to move. The current plan for the tunnel would more than double the rail capacity.
The Port Authority estimates the project would create 6,000 construction jobs now -- a boon for a region and an industry mired in recession. Eventually it would remove 22,000 vehicles from the road. The authority also projects the added mobility will bring $4 billion in personal income to the area, higher real estate values in New Jersey and more good jobs in Manhattan.
Mr. Christie says he is worried about cost overruns, a legitimate concern for any big public effort. There are reports that he wants to use $1.25 billion of New Jersey's planned contribution for patching roads and highways. There will always be repair work that needs doing. There will not always be a chance to vastly improve the transit system -- or get the federal government to kick in $3 billion. Gov. Christie should support this project, not undermine it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); TRAINS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



818 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Deep Pockets, Deep Fears

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
MISASA, Japan -- A plan by Chinese real estate developers to invest in this little mountain town has opened a window onto a Japanese crisis of confidence.
For locals here, the planned development -- vacation homes for rich Chinese -- is a welcome infusion of capital into a town that has been in decline since its heyday in the 1980s as a hot spring resort.
But seen from elsewhere in Japan -- there have been news accounts in the national media, not all of them accurate -- the investment is a menace to the area's pristine forests and streams, a land grab that threatens the country's natural resources and a chilling reminder of the expanding shadow cast by China, which recently surpassed Japan to become the world's second-largest economy after the United States.
''Targeted by Foreign Money? Japan's Forests for Sale,'' was the warning title of a news program this month by the public broadcaster, NHK. 
A fear that ''China money'' is buying up the Japanese homeland is spreading across this nation, fanned by news reports and a general anxiety over Tokyo's fading economic prowess and an increasingly hostile wealthy neighbor. The amount of money invested is still small by China's standards, but seems to be setting off an outsize reaction among the Japanese.
Tokyo's recent retreat from the diplomatic face-off over the arrest of a Chinese trawler captain, and China's suspension of shipments of vital industrial metals and minerals to Japan, have also put many Japanese on edge.
''I'm all for closer ties with China, but we need to be on our guard,'' said Hideki Hirano, author of the book ''Japan's Forests Under Siege: How Foreign Capital Threatens Our Water Source,'' which was published in March. ''We need to be more vigilant about who's buying what.''
Here in Misasa, however, nationalist rhetoric is often tempered by pragmatism.
''Rich Chinese spend money in ways that no longer exist in Japan,'' said Kiyomi Kawakami, a local developer who plans to build 47 luxury homes in Misasa with partners from Shanghai.
''People warn me not to sell land to the Chinese,'' he said. ''But I run a business. If somebody's buying, I'm selling.''
Whether in far-flung corners of Japan like Misasa or in corporate boardrooms, there is a realization that as the Chinese economy booms, Japan needs -- even as it remains wary of -- China's money.
The sentiment is reminiscent of the way Americans feared Japanese economic imperialism in the 1980s, alarmed by the acquisition of United States icons like Rockefeller Center by Mitsubishi and Columbia Pictures by Sony.
Chinese companies spent $120 million in the first half of this year to acquire various small and midsize Japanese enterprises, taking advantage of depressed asset prices, according to a recent report from Goldman Sachs. The figure represents a sixfold increase from the comparable period last year. China is also now Japan's biggest trading partner, with overall trade surging by a third, to 12.6 trillion yen ($151 billion) in the first half of the year, compared with the same period last year.
''We shouldn't think it a bad thing that foreign investors are recognizing value in Japan,'' said Kazuhiko Masumoto, an analyst at the Mitsubishi Research Institute in Tokyo.
But Japan's finance ministry has seemed slow to agree.
This month, Japan's finance minister, Yoshihiko Noda, asked Chinese policy makers to ''clarify their objectives'' after recent bulk purchases of Japanese government bonds. Tokyo was concerned that the buying was helping to drive up the yen's value -- making Japan's exports less competitive with China's.
Bowing to economic realities, and Japan's already high levels of public debt, Finance Ministry officials have since then played down the conflict, saying Japan was happy to find foreign takers of its government bonds.
Until the trawler dispute prompted some tour groups to at least temporarily cancel trips to Japan, waves of newly rich Chinese tourists, with pocketbooks open, had been welcomed in Japan -- even while heightening a sense that the country is at the mercy of rich Chinese.
Reports of Chinese snapping up Japan's mountains and forests have struck a raw nerve, however. Although Japan is known for its big cities, about 70 percent of its landmass is mountainous forest, and the purchases raise the specter of China's gaining control of the cherished hinterlands.
Japan's logging industry is in decline, as the country has been flooded with cheap imported timber. As a result, forest real estate now sells for rock-bottom prices, and many plots have been abandoned by absentee or aged owners and have fallen into a state of neglect.
In January, the Tokyo Foundation, a respected independent research organization where Mr. Hirano, the author, is an analyst, issued a widely read report warning that foreign brokers could extract natural resources like timber and water and threaten Japan's national security.
''If we wait until the exploitation of Japan's natural resources by global interests is well under way,'' the report said, ''it may be too late.''
Since then, local news media have been sounding alarms, with accounts of deals, or potential deals, with Chinese developers -- including a report of the sale of 57 acres of forest on the northern island of Hokkaido to a Chinese broker.
Then came news that Chinese investors were inquiring about mountains in Mie prefecture in western Japan, along with recent coverage of the development plans here in the spa town of Misasa.
Not all of the reports have been accurate. In Hokkaido, for example, the buyer of those 57 acres turned out not to be Chinese at all, but a French real estate tycoon based in Hong Kong who is known for developing eco-friendly holiday villas powered with solar energy.
Still, the government has ordered a nationwide survey of sales of woodlands to foreigners.
''There have been rumors of foreign companies quietly buying woodlands, so we decided to investigate,'' said Takayuki Doi, a senior official at Japan's Forestry Agency. It is unclear what the government can do, however, since foreign ownership of forests is legal in Japan.
Mr. Kawakami, the developer in Misasa, has received visits from worried local officials over his plans to team up with Chinese investors.
His plans, he says, simply involve building mountain villas that he had initially planned to sell to Japanese buyers. But after a four-month marketing blitz yielded just two bidders in the sluggish domestic market, Mr. Kawakami turned to China. In June, he set up a joint venture with a Shanghai-based developer to build and sell the holiday homes.
''I wanted to sell to Japanese,'' he said, ''but Japanese can no longer afford second homes.''
Whatever the wisdom of selling to rich Chinese, Misasa, like the rest of Japan, could use the cash.
Once a thriving hot spring resort, Misasa attracted almost 600,000 tourists a year in Japan's bubble era, drawn by attractions including a spa-themed amusement park.
But by 1998, the park had gone bust, crippled by over 1.7 billion yen in debt. The attractions fell into disrepair. Tourist numbers dwindled.
Now, the town of 7,000 is desperate to attract new visitors.
Michiko Mifune, 81, runs the Kiya Ryokan, one of Misasa's oldest traditional inns. She says she has heard the rumors -- that the Chinese are supposedly taking over Japan's forests. But recognizing that newly rich foreign tourists come with pocketbooks open, she is eager to have more visitors to Misasa from China.
She recently learned the word ''huanying'' -- ''welcome'' in Chinese.
''Nobody cared about Misasa until now,'' Ms. Mifune said. ''Now that foreigners might be after it, suddenly everyone cares.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A community hot spring in Misasa, a resort town in Japan. Chinese investors are planning to build vacation homes nearby. (B1)
 Kiyomi Kawakami, left, is working with Chinese partners to build 47 luxury homes in Misasa. Michiko Mifune is optimistic about Chinese tourists visiting her inn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIRO KOMAE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); RESORTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); WILDERNESS (70%); WRITERS (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) EAST CHINA (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



819 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Unusual Film Gets Innovative Marketing

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Steven D. Levitt , the contrarian University of Chicago economist, has made a name for himself by conducting innovative, controversial experiments that turn conventional wisdom on its head.
The creative and business team behind the film adaptation of his (and Stephen J. Dubner's) best-selling book, ''Freakonomics,'' is now attempting a similar feat.
The film and its packaging are nothing if not experimental -- in part to embrace the spirit of the book, but in part out of necessity.
After all, the book itself may not seem particularly, well, cinematic. ''Freakonomics,'' which has sold more than four million copies and spawned a blog on The New York Times Web site, is a hodge-podge of research findings about the hidden incentives behind people's sometimes perplexing, sometimes deceitful -- but always logical -- actions. It explores why crack dealers tend to live with their mothers, for example, and how we know schoolteachers cheat on standardized tests. 
And it's all based on rigorous data analysis.
''There's something strange about taking a book, especially this book, and making it into a movie,'' Eugene Jarecki, one of the film's directors, said. ''It's like taking a piece of music and making it into a birthday cake.''
The solution: Not one approach, but several.
''Freakonomics,'' the $2.9 million film that reaches theaters this Friday, is an anthology based on different chapters of the book, with the four segments each filmed by a different director and glued together with interstitial interviews of Mr. Levitt and Mr. Dubner and animation by Seth Gordon (''The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters'').
''If you think about the way 'Freakonomics' was written, each chapter has a different voice,'' said Chad Troutwine, a producer of the film, who has worked on omnibus projects like ''Paris, Je T'aime.''''There's almost inherently a different feel to each of the different chapters, so there was almost no other way to do it.''
And each chapter does have its own tone and style.
Alex Gibney, director of the forthcoming ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' filmed his segment about cheating in sumo wrestling with a traditional documentary feel, featuring interviews with experts and former wrestlers.
On the other hand, Morgan Spurlock, the director of ''Super Size Me'' (in which he ate only McDonald's food for a month), hired actors to portray the fates of people cursed with goofy birth names.
Mr. Jarecki, best known for ''Why We Fight'' (a documentary about the American military-industrial complex), chose to tackle the chapter on Mr. Levitt's most contentious study, about how the legalization of abortion appears to have reduced crime rates by making sure that children who are prone to criminality because they are not wanted are not born.
His segment, ''It's (Not Always) a Wonderful Life,'' plays with themes from the Frank Capra-James Stewart film. But it primarily relies on animation rather than real people.
''Who among us has the discretion to look at a real person and say, 'Should this person not exist?' '' Mr. Jarecki said. ''But with a cartoon, the concept of 'unwantedness' is a little easier to think about more objectively, without such a visceral emotional reaction.''
Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady, the filmmakers behind ''Jesus Camp'' (about a summer camp for evangelical Christian teenagers), took a different tack altogether.
''We were struggling with how to do this, since our work is mostly 95 percent observational, and we are primarily cinema verite directors,'' Ms. Grady said.
They ultimately filmed one of Mr. Levitt's experiments as it unfolded -- an attempt to bribe poor students to get good grades -- rather than recreate an existing study.
Like the multidirector format, the approach to marketing the ''Freakonomics'' movie has been unconventional.
On Sept. 3 Magnolia Pictures released the movie through video on demand, or VOD, and on iTunes before its scheduled theatrical release.
''The business model for independent film has collapsed, and anyone who thinks otherwise is basically borderline delusional,'' said Eamonn Bowles, president of Magnolia Pictures, which bought the domestic distribution rights to the film. ''So we try to stay open-minded about the commerce of film.''
''Freakonomics'' spent its first couple of weeks among the Top 10 iTunes film downloads, but Magnolia declined to give exact numbers. The film will be released in theaters in 16 markets on Friday and then roll into another 29 theaters around the country throughout the month.
Magnolia executives said they hoped that such an unusual strategy -- which they have attempted with a handful of other movies -- may be the magic bullet to save the struggling midmarket independent film industry.
There has generally been resistance to revamping the old, crusty business model, though.
''The mainstream theaters are still very averse to changing things up,'' said Bob Berney, a distribution and marketing executive and veteran of several independent film companies. (This week he joined a new company, FilmDistrict.) ''They know that the release windows may eventually change, but they're holding out as long as they can and refusing to show films if they know they're available on VOD or DVD or will be soon.''
So even if a filmmaker or producer was interested in experimenting with the release window, chances are no one would play ball.
The executives at Magnolia, though, have a convenient workaround: Their parent company, the Wagner/Cuban Companies, also happens to own the largest theater circuit in the United States devoted to independent film, Landmark Theaters. The other big pioneer in unusual distribution strategies, IFC, has a similar structure, in that it owns platforms for both a traditional theatrical screening and video on demand.
Releasing films in multiple platforms at the same time, of course, raises fears of displacing, rather than expanding, audiences.
''We worried about cannibalization at first, but in the end we think it has the opposite effect,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''Releasing online means more people are exposed to the film. We get more support from cable advertising: it enhances DVD awareness and the buy rate.''
Still, even the risk-takers at Magnolia acknowledge that the company's approach is not suitable for all films.
''Independent film is the business of exception,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''It's not like selling an interchangeable widget or toothpaste.''
Tom Quinn, Magnolia's senior vice president for acquisitions, noted that ''Freakonomics'' was a particularly attractive candidate partly because it had a name-brand creative team behind it and because it already had a fan base.
''Freakonomics'' is already a formidable franchise, including two best-selling books, the blog, a new radio show and countless other spinoffs. Mr. Dubner, Mr. Levitt's co-author, said ''10 or 20'' others had pitched TV shows or film adaptations before the authors agreed to this particular film adaptation.
Some other more ''Freakonomics'' marketing tactics have accompanied the VOD release, including a pay-what-you-wish screening on Sept. 22 in 10 markets, including Boston, Chicago, New York and Philadelphia. People could pay a minimum of 1 cent and a maximum of $100.
About a third of the tickets went for a penny, making the average payment just under $1, Mr. Troutwine said. All 5,000 tickets sold out, but there were lots of no-shows.
''People just aren't as incentivized to go if they only put down a penny,'' Mr. Troutwine said.
There also could be potential for profits from sequels and different versions of the original, perhaps tailored to a classroom setting. The unusual format could also lend itself to various directors' cuts, additional ''chapters'' released in collectors' editions and so on.
In a YouTube world, the slicing and dicing of this subject matter may also provide other marketing opportunities.
''Maybe the true genius in all this was somehow recognizing that today some audiences don't really sit down and watch movies for 90 minutes at a time,'' said Peter Broderick, a film distribution strategist who runs Paradigm Consulting in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Forget the VOD stuff. Maybe that's the real innovation here, even if we find out it's been discovered by accident.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven D. Levitt, a co-author of ''Freakonomics,'' which has been adapted as a film. (C1)
 ''Freakonomics'' offers statistics about abortion's effect on crime. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); BESTSELLERS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); FILM (77%); ANIMATION (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (63%); WRESTLING (60%); COCAINE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: Freakonomics (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



820 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: A Warning Sign in Lost I.P.O.'s

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ROB COX

 BODY:
Wall Street just lost some insurance in more ways than one. At the 11th hour, the Liberty Mutual Group yanked the initial public offering of its property and casualty arm. The $1.2 billion deal would have been the biggest flotation in the United States this year. It was also being closely watched as a barometer of investor appetite for the backlog of new share sales meant to keep bankers busy. Weaker trading volumes already had many of them nervous about their fates. If I.P.O.'s flag too, more jobs could be on the line.
Liberty Mutual fell back on an old chestnut to explain the indefinite postponement: an ''unfavorable environment.'' Of course, the environment was less unfavorable for Country Style Cooking Restaurant Chain, the Chinese restaurant chain whose new issue on Tuesday closed 47 percent above the offer price. Specifics of the insurance industry and Liberty Mutual Agency undoubtedly made this particular deal hard to pull off. Policy sales expectations, comparative valuations, a dual-share structure and use of the proceeds all conspired to keep prospective buyers at bay. 
But pickier investors could spell trouble for already edgy Wall Street underwriters. The summer months were painful. Choppy markets and a bumpy patch in mergers and acquisitions have led to a hiring freeze at Morgan Stanley and some culling at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. Equity issuance was supposed to provide some insurance across the industry. The pipeline for offerings was bulging at more than $300 billion, including I.P.O.'s -- where the fees are highest -- of about $75 billion.
The last-minute Liberty Mutual delay is not the only bad omen. Plans submitted in May by the private equity-owned Toys ''R'' Us to raise $800 million almost certainly will have to wait until next year. The French lodging group Accor also canceled a highly anticipated initial public offering of its stake in a casino and luxury hotel operator on Wednesday. Other new issues are struggling to achieve their desired prices. If more of these expected share sales meet a Liberty Mutual-like fate, many banks will find themselves with little choice but to cut loose more of their increasingly idle employees.
Hedge Funds, Too
It's rare for a Wall Street firm to sack a tenth of its work force in one go. In finance, the compact between employers and their bankers and traders is simple: work hard and get paid well. But any employee is also a flexible cost that can be removed the moment business halts.
Hedge funds have a similar approach. But the industry has yet to experience a sustained down cycle and its concomitant job cuts. Until now. D. E. Shaw, the veteran alternative asset management shop that once employed Lawrence Summers, President Obama's economic adviser, reveals the shift in fortunes.
The firm dismissed about 150 people on Tuesday, or one in 10 employees. True, that decimation looks humane compared to the blood-letting by investment banks every few years. But it represents something of a milestone for the hedge fund industry.
And it's unlikely to be an isolated event. Since 2007, assets under management at hedge funds have slumped 29 percent, to $1.5 trillion this year from about $2.1 trillion, according to BarclayHedge. Some fund managers lost more than others, of course. That appears to be D. E. Shaw's conundrum.
The firm, the second-largest hedge fund by employees, had about $39 billion to look after just two years ago. Today it has about $21 billion, a result of declining markets and the firm's decision during the crisis to restrict withdrawals by customers. Investors, it seems, do not forget so easily.
While not all the money was wedged into hedge funds, assume investors paid an average management fee of 1.5 percent. The firm's income, before its slice of any profit, would have fallen 46 percent, to some $315 million. That might not be such a problem if investments were thriving and it was pocketing the traditional 20 percent of the upside.
But the math illustrates a basic point. Hedge funds are not so different from their Wall Street brethren. Like banks, their cost structures grew, in some cases well beyond their ability to sustain them. The good news for hedge funds, at least for now, is that the cuts amount to only a fraction of the declines in performance. That may not last.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Liberty Mutual Group postponed an initial public offering on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ISSUES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); MERGERS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (95%); COUNTRY STYLE COOKING RESTAURANT CHAIN CO LTD (70%); ACCOR SA (64%); LIBERTY MUTUAL AGENCY CORP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: CCSC (NYSE) (70%); AC (PAR) (64%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (64%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (64%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



821 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A Megamerger: Pop Culture and the Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD -- Oliver Stone's new movie, ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,'' is not the only cultural artifact of the moment to feature the financial crisis.
Rappers like Young Jeezy rhyme about ''The Recession,'' while some Barnes & Noble stores have entire bookshelves devoted to what can only be called crisis lit. On his latest album, Neil Young, the weathered rocker, intones, ''There's a bailout coming, but it's not for me. It's for all these creeps watching tickers on TV.''
Even ''Despicable Me,'' an animated movie for children, finds room to wink at Wall Street. (What does the sign say on the Bank of Evil? ''Formerly Lehman Brothers.'') 
Not since the Great Depression has an economic upheaval coursed through so many avenues of American popular culture. Over the last few years, Homer Simpson has lost his family's home to foreclosure, while the recession has taken its toll on the housekeeper on the new sitcom ''Melissa and Joey,'' and the desperate housewives of Wisteria Lane.
Several new novels, like Janelle Brown's ''This Is Where We Live,'' incorporate the housing crisis into their plots. And that's not counting the half-dozen or so films related to the financial crisis that are scheduled for release.
''This is one of those events where you say it will ripple through the world of art,'' said Penn Badgley, the ''Gossip Girl'' star who plays a junior trader in ''Margin Call,'' a financial thriller. ''It has a global focus, but also one that affected everybody. There is not a single person that I have met who hasn't lost money or been forced to tighten up spending in some way.''
Today's financial pop atmosphere is also distinctive because the events that inspired it are so fresh.
''What is really striking about the popular culture of the Depression is how long it took for the Depression to show up,'' said Jackson Lears, a cultural historian at Rutgers. ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' for example, the gripping tale of farmers migrating from the Dust Bowl, was not published until 1939, and ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' where James Stewart staves off a run on the local bank, did not reach movie theaters until 1946.
Instead, the movies and music of the Depression era provided escapist entertainment: screwball comedies and fantasy films like ''The Wizard of Oz,'' the elegant dancing of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers and silky Cole Porter melodies.
The cultural references of the current recession have a realistic and ironic bite. Take ''The Other Guys,'' a recent police comedy starring Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg. Mr. Ferrell's character chides a Securities and Exchange Commission agent whom he is assisting on a financial fraud case. ''I hear you guys are the best with these kinds of investigations,'' he snaps, ''except for Enron and A.I.G. and Madoff.''
Schadenfreude is another driving force behind the current wave of financial crisis references, suggests Alexandra Lebenthal, the author of ''The Recessionistas'' and a fixture of the Manhattan finance and society scenes.
''We like to see the people with houses all over the world, unbelievable fur coats or cars take a fall,'' she said. ''There is no better image of that than when you see Wall Street C.E.O.'s testifying before Congress with people wearing masks with pigs' faces on them sitting behind them.''
Mr. Stone, the director, said he believed that the crisis brought closure to ''the apotheosis of greed'' that took shape during the Reagan years, when he created the original film. ''This was a good moment to bring back Gordon Gekko. It's a bookend and an end of era,'' he said. ''It's like the bubble popped and people said enough.''
To be sure, it may all just be a matter of timing: Publishing and movie executives approved many of today's projects two years ago when the crisis was the biggest news story in the world.
And art doesn't always imitate life. Sometimes the opposite is true. The financial reform legislation, for example, was rife with allusions to popular culture. Lawmakers referred to a strict ban on insider trading of commodities as the ''Eddie Murphy rule'' after his role in the 1980s comedy ''Trading Places.'' And something known as the ''Hotel California'' provision was intended, with apologies to the Eagles, to prevent Wall Street firms from ''checking out'' of their bank holding company status once they ''checked in.''
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REFLECTING THE ERA: From left, the book ''This Is Where We Live'' by Janelle Brown
Oliver Stone, director of the movie ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps''
the rapper Young Jeezy
the movie ''Margin Call''
''The Recessionistas,'' a novel by Alexandra Lebenthal
and the singer Neil Young. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT, RANDOM HOUSE
EVAN AGOSTINI/AGOEV, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING
 JUDI BOTTONI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); FILM (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); FILM GENRES (79%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (79%); HISTORY (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (75%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); FORECLOSURE (74%); ANIMATION (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); MUSIC (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



822 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Promised a State Lifeline, Family Farms Are Still Waiting

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CORTLANDT MANOR, N.Y.
John De Maria will never forget the day in May 2006 when Gov. George E. Pataki came to the farm his family has owned since 1939 and announced that it would do something that at times had seemed impossible: it would survive.
Mr. Pataki, who grew up nearby in Peekskill, reminisced about his father's buying Thanksgiving turkeys there, lamented that his own family farm was now a subdivision and announced that Mr. De Maria's 120-acre Hemlock Hill Farm would receive a $2.7 million grant under a state program designed to keep farmland as working farm or open space forever. 
''I thought it was the happiest day of my life,'' said Mr. De Maria, a barrel-chested man of 77. ''I'd been refusing to sell out for 40 years. I kept fighting it, and I figured, after all these years, we could finally get out from under the mortgages. This was finally my day.''
Four years and four months later, his day still hasn't come. It's not likely to come soon. With the state ever deeper in the red and the paperwork and approval process of getting appraisals, surveys and the rest excruciatingly prolonged, 64 farm families, including Mr. De Maria's, are still waiting for $71 million promised by the state from a program whose annual financing has dropped to $5 million from $30 million in 2008.
At risk, besides the farms, are the underpinnings of the buy-local agriculture movement represented by the burgeoning interest in farmers' markets, community-supported agriculture programs and local-food restaurants. For farmers like Mr. De Maria, their business has never been more promising; at the same time, the financial pressures have never been greater.
''The whole local-food movement is built on a house of cards unless we think about how to protect the farmers who grow the food,'' said David Haight, New York director of the American Farmland Trust, which works to save farmland nationally.
There are orchards and horse farms in Westchester County, but Mr. De Maria, along with his daughter Laura, 29, runs one of the last good-size commercial livestock farms near New York City. He grows vegetables and raises Black Angus cattle, Dorset lambs, Plymouth Rock chickens, Pekin ducks, Boer goats and Yorkshire pigs. Much of the meat is slaughtered there and sold at the farm's store or to restaurants.
The farms in the program are mostly ones that have changed with the times, like the Kezialain Farm in Orange County, which dates to 1775 and sells grass-fed beef, certified as organic. Mr. De Maria has adapted, too, catering to the local-food market, installing a solar-powered water pump, running his tractors on biodiesel powered by grease from local restaurants.
But like most farmers, he has survived only by piling up debt, all secured by the value of land worth more to developers than it is as a farm. He's stretched well beyond his limit -- he's behind on two mortgages and juggling two other loans.
Enter the State Farmland Protection Program, which began in 1996 with the purpose of buying up the development rights to farmland, essentially paying farmers the difference between what a developer might pay and what it's worth as farmland. The goal is to protect open space, retain the rural landscape and provide needed capital to farmers -- the idea being that local farming isn't just a nice amenity but an essential element of economic and food security. After all, once farms are gone, they're gone forever.
In truth, other states with a less urban center of gravity have been more ambitious. Through June, New York had spent $86 million to preserve 170 farms accounting for 32,000 acres. Pennsylvania has spent $710 million to protect 3,928 farms on 428,000 acres.
With New York's budget morass, things are only getting worse. The program has stopped accepting new applicants. Local matches from towns and counties are expiring. Because of falling land values, payouts, if they come, are being reduced.
Those like Mr. De Maria, who has shelled out about $20,000 for his application, have no guarantee when or if they will get paid. If he can pay off his debts and find money to invest in the farm, Hemlock Hill might be around another 70 years. Without it, he's at the mercy of lenders.
He says he doesn't regret passing on the developers' money -- as much as $3.5 million -- and would do the same thing again.
''I'd like to see this thing get done,'' he said. Still, it's not getting any easier.
''My lawyer asks me, 'Do you sleep at night?' '' Mr. De Maria said. ''I say, 'Occasionally.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John De Maria, who says he has refused to sell his family's Hemlock Hill Farm in Westchester County despite a pile of debts, is still waiting on a $2.7 million state grant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY FARMS (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); MAMMALS (85%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); FAMILY (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); POULTRY (76%); MEATS (76%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%); ORGANIC FOODS (68%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (64%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (64%); BEEF (63%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); THANKSGIVING (56%); APPROVALS (51%); BIOFUELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



823 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: The Regulatory Pregame: Laying Bets on the Winners

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
On Sunday afternoon, dozens of state regulators packed into a windowless conference room at a Marriott in Baltimore for a panel titled ''Navigating Reform: Where Do We Go From Here?''
The panelists included Washington regulators - the very people who will decide how to put to work the new Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul bill passed in July.
''What is the S.E.C. doing to define venture capital funds?'' one attendee asked Jennifer B. McHugh, a senior adviser to the Securities and Exchange Commission's chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro.
''And what about financial advisers?'' asked another audience member. 
To each such question - and there were many - Ms. McHugh's answers were both consistent and noncommittal: ''That is a good question, and we're working on it.''
Welcome to the moment of maximum uncertainty.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the nation's most comprehensive financial overhaul since the Great Depression, is now the law of the land. But with a few exceptions, like the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, much of the detail on how those new rules will work is in the hands of the Obama administration's financial regulators, who have been given enormous latitude to come up with the new rules of the road.
Compounding the uncertainty is the fact that the country is a little more than a month away from midterm elections, when Republicans are expected to gains seats, perhaps enough to take over the House of Representatives. Should that happen, a serious effort will most likely be made to roll back parts of the law, or at least minimize its effects.
Both John A. Boehner, the House minority leader, and Richard Shelby, the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, are on record calling for a repeal of the consumer bureau. Although that is highly unlikely, a Republican-controlled Congress would certainly push to limit its powers and regulatory reach.
Already, Wall Street has begun marshaling a battle plan to press a Republican-led Congress to ease some of the rules being drawn up, like restrictions on derivatives and proprietary trading.
Another target is the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, otherwise known as the bank tax. Originally meant to help pay back the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and rein in risk-taking, it has been met with grumbling by Wall Street. Republicans have been pledging privately to bankers that, should they win, they will seek to block it.
''This would be much more than a tax on banks,'' Thomas P. Quaadman, vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said in a statement. ''This tax would choke off consumers' access to credit and make our bad economic situation worse.''
Even without the specter of the midterms, putting the new rules into effect is very much a work in progress, and the stakes are high for consumers and for banks afraid that too many new hurdles will dent profits.
Here is a typical example that has received relatively little attention. Under the current law, a stockbroker can be defined as either a broker-dealer or an investment adviser. The latter is obligated to act in the customer's best interest; the former can operate under a less stringent standard. Because broker-dealers are not considered fiduciaries, they can sell a client products that are suitable, but not necessarily best, for the client.
Congress has asked the S.E.C. to study the differences in oversight between the categories and report back on the shortcomings of existing standards. Some Wall Street executives fear the S.E.C. will raise the standards for broker-dealers, limiting their firms' ability to sell in-house products that pull in millions of dollars of revenue. State regulators, however, generally want one rule that holds broker-dealers to the same fiduciary standard as investment bankers.
Some banks argue that too-strict rules may harm their ability to compete with global rivals.
''Large U.S. banks must be fully competitive with larger European and Asian banks in all spheres,'' Daniel Alpert, a founding partner of the investment bank Westwood Capital, said.
While the rule-making process is far from over, it is not too early to place bets on the likely winners and losers.
GOLDMAN SACHS Conventional wisdom dictates that Goldman comes out on top. Like other firms, Goldman is trying to get ahead of the new law instead of waiting for things to play out.
In a recent report, Guy Moszkowski, an analyst with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, said Goldman was building up its derivative brokerage operation to take advantage of new rules that would require it and others to trade some derivatives through regulated clearinghouses.
Still, the Dodd-Frank act has provisions that will nick Goldman's profits, including requiring the firm to shed lucrative proprietary trading operations and some private equity holdings. And the firm will need to post more capital to support the riskier assets that it holds. But most analysts say they think Goldman will again find other ways to profit.
The firm's biggest challenge may be the public relations blows resulting from the crisis. It has been called ''a great vampire squid'' by Rolling Stone and denounced in Congress, and it paid $550 million to settle civil fraud accusations over the sale of complex mortgage securities. The damage to its reputation could take years to repair.
JPMORGAN CHASE By far the biggest winner of the crisis, according to Mr. Moszkowski. JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns and assets of Washington Mutual on the cheap, expanding both its investment banking footprint and its deposit base. And while it will be hurt by the new rules, things could have been worse.
Like Citigroup, JPMorgan draws lots of revenue from consumer activities, leaving it open to new regulations on debit and credit cards. But the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has made it clear that the firm will adjust its charges accordingly.
''If you're a restaurant and you can't charge for the soda, you're going to charge more for the burger,'' he said in July.
MORGAN STANLEY Another clear winner. Though this year's profits lag last year's, the firm has rebuilt its trading business. Because it does little proprietary trading or private equity deal-making for its own book, the laws are unlikely to hurt its operations. But many of Morgan Stanley's assets, like mortgage-backed securities, are considered risky by regulators, which will most likely require the firm to post more capital.
CITIGROUP The firm will almost certainly be hurt by new regulations. Having needed several government bailouts, Citi still owes the taxpayers billions of dollars. But because so much of its revenue flows from consumer businesses, it will bear the brunt of many of the new laws, especially those tied to the consumer protection bureau. The new federal credit card rules alone could drain billions from the industry over the next five years.
Still, there is good news: Citi has more overseas business - out of the reach of American regulators - than some of its rivals.
BANK OF AMERICA The country's largest bank will be hit hard by the legislation, as credit and debit card rules will undoubtedly take a bite out of profits.
But it has little private equity and proprietary trading business, and the firm has been trimming what exposure it currently has. And thanks to its purchase of Merrill Lynch in 2008, its operations mix is much more diversified than before.
THE EXCHANGES The exchanges may end up handling the trading of derivatives, which currently are bought and sold over the counter, far from public eyes. But there is a potential fly in the ointment: Wall Street firms may be allowed to create their own exchangelike facilities for derivatives, excluding current exchanges. Expect a push from the finance industry here.
YOU There is a case that the public has been the biggest loser of all. Taxpayers lent billions of dollars to shore up the country's big banks, and are still waiting to be repaid. The markets have yet to return to precrisis levels. And consumers trying to get a loan are finding it a lot harder today.
But the public could also be a winner. Elizabeth Warren, appointed to set up the consumer protection bureau, will almost surely propose tough rules governing mortgages and credit cards, finally letting consumers make more informed choices.
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES C. BEST JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); JOHN BOEHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



824 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Thrives Again, but Dark Shadows Loom

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
THIS summer, executives from the New York-based private equity firm SK Capital traveled to Houston to celebrate the first anniversary of their acquisition of a nylon manufacturing business. Soon they will have a bigger reason to uncork the Champagne.
The nylon manufacturer has announced plans to issue about $1 billion in debt, of which $922 million will be used to pay a dividend to SK. For SK, which paid $50 million in cash for the business, that is an astonishing almost 18-fold return in a little more than a year.
Yes, Wall Street's buyout barons, bruised and battered in the financial crisis, are back.
The private equity industry has emerged from a treacherous two years on relatively solid footing. Default rates among the companies they control have dropped sharply and many have tapped into robust debt markets to push back the huge amounts of debt coming due in the next couple of years. 
And private equity's deal-making machine is revving up again. Last month, 3G Capital struck a deal to take Burger King private in a $3.3 billion leveraged buyout. Other firms are prepping holdings for initial public offerings so they can return capital to their investors, who have seen little in the way of profits in recent years.
''It's astonishing how quickly it's turned,'' said Kirk Radke, a lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis. ''Most people a year ago were focused on their portfolio companies and internally focused. What we're seeing now, across the board, is that our clients are very busy.''
Private equity, however, may soon be facing its gravest challenge yet. Its most important constituents - the large public pension funds that provide it with more than half its capital - are weighing whether or not to stick with private equity in the coming years.
''The big test is how the investments made during the boom are going to play out and it's too soon to tell,'' said Joseph Dear, chief investment officer for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the nation's largest state pension fund. Calpers has significant exposure to the mega-buyouts struck between 2005 and 2007, which have largely languished during the economic slowdown.
''If the capital structures in those deals hold together, the returns will be good and demand will be strong. If the economic scenario worsens, and the returns are poor, investors will turn away from private equity,'' Mr. Dear said.
As deal activity has picked up, some private equity firms are turning to transactions whose merits have come under some criticism from their investor base.
Among them are so-called secondary buyouts, which involves passing a company from one private equity firm to another. There have been a flurry of these transactions this year, amounting to a record 25 percent of the value of all private equity deals, according to Thomson Reuters.
Recent large secondary buyouts include the Carlyle Group's sale of the health care company MultiPlan to BC Partners and Silver Lake for $3.1 billion and Bain Capital's $1 billion acquisition of Air Medical from Brockway Moran & Partners and MVP Capital Partners.
These deals hold great appeal in the private equity ecosystem, allowing sellers to book profits and buyers to deploy their billions of dollars of unused capital.
Investment banks, meanwhile, earn big fees on these deals by advising and lending money to finance the transactions.
Secondary buyouts also tend to be more expedient than the traditional route of an initial public offering, with its regulatory hassles and the vagaries of the market, or selling to a publicly traded company whose shareholders may object.
But secondary buyouts have a mixed reputation among private equity investors. The world's largest private equity firms share the same investor base: American public pension funds and foreign countries' investment vehicles, or sovereign wealth funds. In some instances, these investors are selling a company through one private equity firm and buying it - at a higher price - through another firm.
Calpers experienced this firsthand this summer, when the buyout shop TPG acquired Vertafore for $1.4 billion from the private equity firm Hellman & Friedman, which had owned the software provider since 2004. Hellman & Friedman and its co-owner, JMI Equity, earned more than four times their original investment on the deal. Calpers has big stakes in both the TPG fund that bought Vertafore and the Hellman & Friedman fund that bought it.
Mr. Dear, Calpers's chief investment officer, said he had mixed emotions about the Vertafore deal and other similar ones in his portfolio.
''We still have exposure to the company but at a higher valuation,'' Mr. Dear said. ''To me this isn't a sign of strength in the private equity business, but more a sign that firms must commit their capital before their investment period runs out.''
A spokesman for TPG declined to comment.
Margot Wirth, director of private equity investments at the California State Teachers' Retirement System, or Calstrs, the nation's second-largest pension fund, says she is also concerned about the increased number of these deals.
''Where we tend to scratch our heads is where a company is passed between two large firms with similar characteristics and skill sets,'' she said. ''You have to ask, what performance improvements will the new owners be able to make to the company that the previous owners already haven't made?''
Another hot button among the industry's critics is the resurgence of the dividend deal, or dividend recap.
This spring, Visant, the private equity-owned company that owns Jostens, the purveyor of yearbooks and school rings, issued debt to pay a dividend of $137 million to its owners, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and a buyout unit of Credit Suisse.
After efforts to sell the company failed, Visant issued a $1.25 billion term loan, of which $517 million was earmarked for another dividend payment. Taken with a similar deal in early 2006, K.K.R. and Credit Suisse have collected nearly $1 billion in dividends from Visant in recent years. K.K.R. and Credit Suisse declined to comment.
About 56 private equity-supported companies have issued about $23 billion in dividend debt this year, according to Leveraged Commentary & Data, a division of Standard & Poor's. On average, the dividends are returning the private equity firm's original investment, say analysts at the firm.
''From the private equity standpoint, the benefits are clear,'' said Steven Miller, managing director of Standard & Poor's L.C.D.. ''You get to take money off the table - in some cases, get all of your bait back - and you maintain your ownership of the company.''
At SK Capital, which invests primarily its own executives' money, the decision to issue the dividend-paying debt was partly based on the expected jump in tax rates on dividends that go into effect next year, said the firm's co-founder, Barry Siadat. He also says SK so improved the nylon manufacturer's operations that it can easily handle its new low levels of debt.
But critics of these so-called dividend recap deals say they only add strain, in terms of borrowed funds on the balance sheets of companies, at a time when the economic outlook remains cloudy.
''Dividend recaps are a concern and we definitely monitor them,'' Mr. Dear of Calpers said. ''If the economy sours from here, private equity firms could be looking at more distressed situations or possible bankruptcies.''
Go to DealBook's Fall 2010 Special Section>>
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES C. BEST JR.) (F1)
 CHART: On the Rise Again: After a two-year decline, deal making among private equity firms has increased so far this year. (Source: Thomson Reuters) (F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); NYLON (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%)

COMPANY: KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



825 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: CUBA'S OIL PLANS FOR DEEP WATERS RAISE CONCERNS

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Five months after the BPoil spill, a federal moratorium still prohibits new deepwater drilling in the American waters of the Gulf of Mexico. And under longstanding federal law, drilling is also banned near the coast of Florida.
Yet next year, a Spanish company will begin drilling new wells 50 miles from the Florida Keys -- in Cuba's sovereign waters.
Cuba currently produces little oil. But oil experts say the country might have reserves along its north coast as plentiful as that of the international oil middleweights, Ecuador and Colombia -- enough to bolster its faltering economy and cut its dependence on Venezuela for its energy needs.
The advent of drilling in Cuban waters poses risks both to the island nation and the United States. 
Ocean scientists warn that a well blowout similar to the BP disaster could send oil spewing onto Cuban beaches and then the Florida Keys in as little as three days. If the oil reached the Gulf Stream, a powerful ocean current that passes through the region, oil could flow up the coast to Miami and beyond.
The nascent oil industry in Cuba is far less prepared to handle a major spill than even the American industry was at the time of the BP spill. Cuba has neither the submarine robots needed to fix deepwater rig equipment nor the platforms available to begin drilling relief wells on short notice.
And marshaling help from American oil companies to fight a Cuban spill would be greatly complicated by the trade embargo on Cuba imposed by the United States government 48 years ago, according to industry officials. Under that embargo, American companies face severe restrictions on the business they can conduct with Cuba.
The prospect of an accident is emboldening American drilling companies, backed by some critics of the embargo, to seek permission from the United States government to participate in Cuba's nascent industry, even if only to protect against an accident.
''This isn't about ideology. It's about oil spills,'' said Lee Hunt, president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, a trade group that is trying to broaden bilateral contacts to promote drilling safety. ''Political attitudes have to change in order to protect the gulf.''
Any opening could provide a convenient wedge for big American oil companies that have quietly lobbied Congress for years to allow them to bid for oil and natural gas deposits in waters off Cuba. Representatives of Exxon Mobil and Valero Energy attended an energy conference on Cuba in Mexico City in 2006, where they met Cuban oil officials.
Right now, Cuba's oil industry is served almost exclusively by non-American companies. Repsol, a Spanish oil company, has contracted with an Italian operator to build a rig in China that is scheduled to begin drilling several deepwater test wells next year. Other companies, from Norway, India, Malaysia, Venezuela, Vietnam and Brazil, have taken exploration leases.
New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, a Democrat who regularly visits Cuba, said Cuba's offshore drilling plans are a ''potential inroad'' for loosening the embargo. During a recent humanitarian trip to Cuba, he said, he bumped into a number of American drilling contractors -- ''all Republicans who could eventually convince the Congress to make the embargo flexible in this area of oil spills.''
''I think you will see the administration be more forward-moving after the election,'' Mr. Richardson said.
Despite several requests in the last week, Cuban officials declined to make anyone available for an interview.
Currently, the United States, Mexico and Cuba are signatories to several international protocols in which they agreed to cooperate to contain any oil spill. In practice, there is little cooperation between Washington and Havana on oil matters, although American officials did hold low-level meetings with Cuban officials after the BP blowout.
''What is needed is for international oil companies in Cuba to have full access to U.S. technology and personnel in order to prevent and/or manage a blowout,'' said Jorge Pinon, a former executive of BP and Amoco. Mr. Pinon, who fled Cuba as a child and now briefs American companies on Cuban oil prospects, said the two governments must create a plan for managing a spill.
Several American oil and oil service companies are eager to do business in Cuba, Mr. Pinon said, but they are careful not to identify themselves publicly because they want to ''protect their brand image in South Florida,'' where Cuban-Americans who support the embargo could boycott their gasoline stations and other products.
There are signs the Obama administration is aware of the safety issues. Shortly after the BP accident, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the agency that regulates the embargo, said it would make licenses available to American service companies to provide oil spill prevention and containment support.
Charles Luoma-Overstreet, a State Department spokesman, said licenses would be granted on a ''application-by-application basis,'' but he would not comment on the criteria.
Mr. Pinon said it appeared that an American company could apply for a license before an emergency but that a license would be issued only after an accident had occurred. ''We're jumping up and down for clarification,'' he said.
One group -- Clean Caribbean & Americas, a Fort Lauderdale cooperative of several oil companies -- has received licenses to send technical advisers, dispersants, containment booms and skimmers to Cuba since 2003. But it can only serve the member companies Repsol and Petrobras, not Cuba's government.
Economic sanctions on Cuba have been in effect in one form or another since 1960, although the embargo has been loosened to allow the sale of agricultural goods and medicines and travel by Cuban-Americans to the island.
Mr. Hunt of the drillers' group said that the association had sent a delegation to Cuba in late August and had held talks with government officials and Cupet, the Cuban national oil company.
He said that Cuban officials, including Tomas Benitez Hernandez, the vice minister of basic industry, asked him to take a message back to the United States. ''Senior officials told us they are going ahead with their deepwater drilling program, that they are utilizing every reliable non-U.S. source that they can for technology and information, but they would prefer to work directly with the United States in matters of safe drilling practices,'' Mr. Hunt said.
Mr. Benitez became the acting minister last week when the minister of basic industry, the agency that oversees the oil industry, was fired for reasons still unclear.
Donald Van Nieuwenhuise, director of petroleum geoscience programs at the University of Houston, said that if an accident occurred in Cuban waters, Repsol or other companies could mobilize equipment from the North Sea, Brazil, Japan or China. But ''a one-week delay could be disastrous,'' he said, and it would be better for Havana, Washington and major oil companies to coordinate in advance.
Opponents of the Cuban regime warn that assisting the Cubans with their oil industry could help prop up Communist rule. Instead of making the drilling safer, some want to stop it altogether.
Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, is urging President Obama to recall a diplomatic note to Havana reinforcing a 1977 boundary agreement that gives Cuba jurisdiction up to 45 miles from Florida. ''I am sure you agree that we cannot allow Cuba to put at risk Florida's major business and irreplaceable environment,'' he wrote the president shortly after the BP accident.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cuba's nascent oil industry has pumps near Havana but lacks some of the equipment needed to handle a major deepwater spill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DESMOND BOYLAN/REUTERS) (A3) MAP (Source: Jorge R. Pinon) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OCEANS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); OCEANOGRAPHY (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%); VLO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



826 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Memories Of Lehman Are Sold Off In London

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The items up for bidding on Wednesday included an 1870 collection of the works of William Shakespeare and two etchings by Lucian Freud.
But the auction's signature winning bid may have been the $:42,050 ($66,500) by an anonymous telephone buyer for a true sign of the times: the large metal nameplate that formerly hung at the London headquarters of Lehman Brothers, the investment bank whose collapse helped ignite the global financial crisis. 
If there was only limited interest in buying Lehman Brothers itself after it failed two years ago this month, there was an enormous appetite for its London collection of art and memorabilia. The auction raised $2.53 million.
''It's a very unique auction and the room was busier than usual,'' said Leonie Ashfield, a spokeswoman for Christie's, which held the event in this city's Kensington district.
The 300 items were as diverse as paintings, miniature battleships and mahogany gentlemen's dressing cases, all of which until recently had decorated the executive offices, meeting rooms and hallways of Lehman's London headquarters in Canary Wharf.
The most expensive item sold was a painting, Gary Hume's ''Madonna,'' which drew a winning bid of $115,840. But even modest pieces, like a collection of five maps, circa 1720, that had been expected to go for perhaps $150, ending up fetching $2,960.
More than 200 people showed up for the auction and more interested buyers bid by telephone through 27 Christie's employees. Others from New York to Dubai registered their bids online. Interest was so high that lines formed outside Christie's, and the event had to be held in a bigger room than most of the house's other auctions. Catalogs sold out days earlier.
The auction took place under the direction of Lehman Brothers' administrators in Europe, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and was part of their effort to repay creditors. A similar auction of Lehman Brothers items on Saturday in New York fetched about $12 million through Sotheby's.
Lehman Brothers' European business was acquired by Nomura of Japan for a ''nominal'' amount in September 2008, and the bank recently moved its staff to a new building farther west of Canary Wharf.
The Christie's auction room was packed Wednesday with people in dark suits, art collectors and artists looking for bargains or souvenirs of the financial crisis. Caroline Stuart, who studies art in London, said she was attracted by the signs.
''I'm interested in lettering and typography and in the fact that these particular letters have become a byword for the banking crisis and where we are now,'' Ms. Stuart said during the auction, adding that the bids would probably be beyond her budget.
In fact, another metal sign -- this one commemorating the opening of the London headquarters in 2004 by Gordon Brown, who was the chancellor of the exchequer at the time -- was expected to bring up to $2,300. But it sold for $45,466 to another anonymous bidder on the telephone.
Also for sale was a sign with Lehman Brothers' mission statement. It read, ''We are one firm defined by our unwavering commitment to our clients, our shareholders and each other.''
That, together with another Lehman sign, sold for $21,744.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the 300 items at auction from Lehman's London headquarters. Also included were paintings, miniature battleships and mahogany men's dressing cases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ART DEALERS (88%); PAINTING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%); EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



827 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Keeps Building, But More Soberly, After Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
DUBAI -- The planned replica of the Las Vegas Strip and a glow-in-the-dark copy of a Giza pyramid are now delayed. But only a few miles away, workers are busy on a series of government-backed projects of a far more practical nature.
A hulking ''aerotropolis'' -- nearly twice the size of London's Heathrow Airport -- is rising from Dubai's sands, designed to fan cargo and people toward neighboring cities that are expected to boom in the next decade.
Highways are expanding to speed goods to the airport from ships at the nearby Jebel Ali seaport, the Middle East's largest, toward even faster delivery routes by air. And a subway system is spreading across town, amid hopes that people will flock once again to this city as the global economy revives. 
Chastened after an extravagance-fueled debt crisis last year at Dubai World, the state-run investment giant, Dubai is getting back to basics.
Glamorous whimsies like a giant artificial island shaped like a palm tree are giving way to more pragmatic priorities meant to revive Dubai's status as the dominant trading hub between the industrially advanced West and the oil-rich Middle East.
''While the world was languishing in recession, Dubai didn't pause for an instant in building an airport and a huge network of logistics,'' said Jim Krane, author of ''City of Gold,'' a history of Dubai. ''So when the recovery comes to the global economy, they should be ready.''
Despite Dubai's recent brush with disaster, the economy here still stands out as the most globally integrated in the Middle East, with business lubricants like banking and hospitality industries, even if the legal system and government policy-making remain opaque.
Although a barely concealed security system operates hidden cameras across the city, and authorities encourage people to report ''detrimental'' behavior that violates any of Dubai's many unspoken moral standards, it remains the most Westernized and tolerant society in a region challenged by rising Islamic fundamentalism.
''There's no one within 1,000 miles that comes close to matching what Dubai has built,'' said Simon Williams, an analyst at HSBC in Dubai. ''It is dealing now with the effects of deceleration, but it will grow once again.''
To do so, however, Dubai is being forced to curb some excesses. Stung by negative publicity over its opulence, leaders have swept out Western-leaning decision makers who once helped drive the breathtaking ambitions of Dubai's ruler, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum.
More influential now are some of Dubai's most circumspect business families, including Ahmed Humaid al-Tayer, whose retail empire has brought Bloomingdale's and other big American brands to Dubai, and Ali Rashid Ahmed Lootah, whose entrenched merchant family holds a number of key government positions.
''There's a new injection of conservatism in Dubai,'' said Steven Blackwell, an independent Middle East expert.
To be sure, Dubai still faces considerable hurdles -- not least the continued uncertainty about growth prospects in the United States and Europe, where slowdowns have damped trade and business here.
Dubai's economy is almost entirely service-based, virtually void of manufacturing or agriculture or oil income, which makes it highly dependent on global trends in trade, banking and tourism. Also unclear is the extent to which the Dubai World debacle has sapped funds needed for a speedy completion of the critical public works projects.
Moreover, the huge oversupply of office and residential space has led to a collapse in real estate prices outside the core business district -- even as developers continue planting skyscraper forests on the edge of town that seem likely to further depress prices and weigh down any economic recovery.
The real estate crisis also exposed severe problems with governance. Thousands of property disputes are in a legal twilight zone because of an archaic federal court system based on Arabic law that has bewildered Westerners and made many think twice about investing further in Dubai, even if its fortunes do pick up.
The International Monetary Fund predicted that the Dubai economy would shrink by 0.5 percent this year after a 2.5 percent contraction in 2009.
The outlook for the future could improve, though, now that Dubai World has won approval from creditors for a $24.9 billion debt overhaul plan. Dubai International Capital, another state-owned holding company, plans to repay $2.6 billion in debt by selling assets.
In many ways, Dubai's fortunes depend on Abu Dhabi, the patriarch of the United Arab Emirates, which reluctantly swooped in to save Dubai with a $20 billion bailout.
The family and tribal links between both emirates stretch back for generations. Abu Dhabi, with its vast oil wealth and diplomatic clout, is one of America's key allies in the Persian Gulf. It has quietly consolidated its long-standing conservative influence over its profligate neighbor Dubai, according to Western diplomats and analysts.
''It's been clear that as glitzy and as emerging as Dubai is, that Abu Dhabi controls pretty much everything that's going on, because it has the money,'' said a Middle East analyst here, who insisted on anonymity to avoid antagonizing officials in Dubai. ''Abu Dhabi is always going to give Dubai some support because of their close ties, but it's not necessarily going to be blank checks.''
That is putting Dubai in the delicate position of having to turn to wary financial markets to raise money. On Wednesday, the emirate sold $1.25 billion in government bonds, the first sale since the crisis, split between maturities of 5 and 10 years, The Associated Press reported from Dubai.
Abu Dhabi's influence is affecting Dubai in other ways. Before, Dubai was largely able to keep its trade relations separate from Abu Dhabi's foreign policy interests, allowing it to do business with Israel while remaining steadfast friends with Iran, historically its largest trading partner.
But Abu Dhabi, which is wary of the potential for a nuclear-armed Iran, wants Dubai to curtail that relationship, analysts said. It recently signed a deal with the United States to build commercial nuclear power plants, a foil to Iran's own nuclear ambitions.
''Even as tourism, real estate and financial services crashed, Dubai could still count on a strong relationship with Iran,'' Mr. Krane, the historian, said. ''Now it is having to pull back.''
Yet, for all its excesses, the unsustainable building frenzy that ended in such a spectacular bust has now positioned Dubai well ahead of other Gulf states, including Abu Dhabi.
Nearly all the world's corporate giants, including General Electric, Tata Industries of India and HSBC, have established their Middle East headquarters here. Unless something much worse happens, they are unlikely to uproot them to Abu Dhabi or other places in the region trying to lure Western business.
''Dubai has the best infrastructure of any city in the Middle East,'' said Jan Willem Plantagie, the Middle East manager at Standard and Poor's. ''This is not the end for Dubai. It's just a painful shift.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A billboard on the outskirts of Dubai, top, shows members of the royal family. The emirate is building a network of highways, above, between a new airport and the Jebel Ali seaport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE HOAGLAND FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RELIGION (60%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (50%); FUNDAMENTALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



828 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Muslim Center's Developer To Use Islamic Loan Plan

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
The developer of the planned Muslim community center and mosque near ground zero hopes to finance the bulk of the $140 million project using instruments developed to allow many Muslim investors to comply with religious prohibitions on interest.
The developer, Sharif el-Gamal, said on Wednesday that he envisioned raising $27 million through a nationwide campaign focused on small donations from Muslims and other supporters, and financing much of the rest that consultants estimate it will cost to build the 15-story center.
Mr. Gamal is counting on the center's eventually having about 4,330 paying members, about half of them paying $2,700 a year for the most expensive family plan, which would include use of a planned fitness center and pool. 
Most of that core group, Mr. Gamal expects, would be non-Muslim neighborhood residents and commuters. Muslims from around the region would make up a larger but less frequently visiting group -- what he calls the ''dinner and a date'' crowd -- many of them choosing the cheapest $375 family membership for cultural programs.
These still-evolving plans, which Mr. Gamal revealed publicly for the first time in an interview on Wednesday, are among the many details that he has been working on behind the scenes in recent weeks amid a national furor over the more basic question of whether the project, known as Park51, should go forward at its planned location, two blocks from the northern edge of the World Trade Center site. Many opponents have said that a Muslim center so close to ground zero would be inappropriate.
Sitting in his frenetic Flatiron district office, decorated with black leather and chrome furniture and a calligraphied ''Allah'' painted by his wife, Mr. Gamal said he had spent recent weeks working with focus groups, local organizations, architects and programming consultants to try to nail down specifics that might make the project easier to understand and sell to investors and the public.
Mr. Gamal and Feisal Abdul Rauf, the imam who is his planning partner in the project, have promised that they will invite the federal government to review all the donations.
Most of the financing, Mr. Gamal said on Wednesday, would come through religiously sanctioned bondlike investments known as sukuk, devised in Muslim nations to allow religious Muslims to take part in the global economy and increasingly explored by American banks. Sukuk and other Islamic banking instruments are tracked on the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index.
In sukuk construction projects, the investors own the real estate asset, and the developers lease it back; the investors' profit on the rent is analogous to the yield on a bond. Some Islamic scholars do not accept the system, but it is widely used in places like Malaysia and Dubai.
Mr. Gamal, a broker and property manager with Soho Properties, uses conventional mortgages on other deals, but said using sukuk would attract a broader range of Muslim investors.
He restated his hope of getting the bonds issued tax-free through a public development authority, but said he would do so privately -- which would require higher payments to investors -- if that was not possible. Besides individual investors, Mr. Gamal said he would court corporations interested in tapping Muslim-American markets, foundations that finance international development, and Jewish, Christian and Muslim philanthropists.
A tentative sketch of the project shows the prayer space, whose construction cost is estimated at $17 million, in the basement. (Technically, it would be a musalla, because its construction would not meet religious rules required to sanctify a mosque; it is not uncommon for a Muslim congregation to pray in such a space but call it, colloquially, a mosque, or, in Arabic, masjid).
Mr. Gamal envisioned a congregation of 2,000, mainly Muslims who work in the area; the existing building on the site already draws scores to prayers on Fridays, easing overcrowding at the neighborhood's two existing mosques.
On the upper floors there would be a 9/11 memorial and prayer space, open to people of all faiths for prayer, contemplation and meditation. ''Most people truly hold us responsible for this,'' Mr. Gamal said, referring to the terrorist attacks.
According to the still-tentative plans, the upper floors would also include rooms for interfaith programs run by Mr. Rauf.
The project's biggest challenge, beyond winning over a skeptical -- and angry -- public, will be to serve widely disparate constituencies: wealthy residents downtown; economically varied workers and students; the 57,000 Muslims estimated to live within 20 minutes of the location; the 695,000 Muslims believed to live within a 90-minute trip; Jews, Christians, nonbelievers; and the 50,000 to 100,000 tourists that Mr. Gamal expects to visit each year.
''I hope they come,'' he said. ''We don't see this being a success until there has been a bar mitzvah, a Hindu wedding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharif el-Gamal revealed details of his plans Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); ISLAMIC BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); RENTAL PROPERTY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



829 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Protests in Europe Lead to a Down Day

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street moved lower Wednesday as protests against austerity measures in Europe brought new worries about the region's financial system.
The dollar fell further against other currencies on anticipation of more action by the Federal Reserve to push American interest rates down. Gold continued to climb, closing at $1,309.85 an ounce. 
European markets fell as demonstrators gathered in Belgium, Spain and Ireland to protest austerity measures aimed at preventing another fiscal crisis like the one that required a bailout of Greece earlier this year. The protests raised concerns that countries like Spain would not be able to adopt policies required to heal their public finances.
Kate Warne, investment strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis, said the protests in Ireland, Spain and France suggested that those countries would have trouble installing austerity measures, which worried stock investors.
''Governments will have more difficulty making cuts to get their budgets in order,'' she said.
Stocks swooned this spring as a fiscal crisis in Greece appeared to be spreading to other weak European economies like Portugal and Spain. A relative calm in European markets since then has allowed American stocks to rise sharply.
Schlumberger, Occidental Petroleum and other companies rose after the price of crude oil jumped on news that inventories fell last week. Benchmark crude for November delivery rose $1.62 to $77.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The markets' decline on Wednesday was another pause in a monthlong rally that has made this September one of the strongest in history. With only one trading day left this month, the Dow Jones industrial average is on track for its best September since 1939, with a gain of 8.4 percent so far. It has risen only 4.1 percent for the year.
Trading on Wednesday was expected to be relatively subdued with no major economic reports or corporate earnings scheduled to be released.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 22.86 points, or 0.21 percent, at 10,835.28. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.97 points, or 0.26 percent, to 1,144.73, while the technology heavy Nasdaq was off 3.03, or 0.13 percent, at 2,376.56.
Bond prices edged lower. The price on the 10-year Treasury fell 10/32 to 101 2/32, while its yield edged up to 2.50 percent, from 2.47 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); INVENTORIES (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (55%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (91%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



830 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM THE UNITED NATIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Lace Together a Consensus on Biodiversity Across a Global Landscape

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
UNITED NATIONS -- Amid the howling motorcades, the scrums of burly security guards and the buzz of countless meetings around the United Nations in recent days, the Venerable Bun Saluth, a Cambodian Buddhist monk with a shaved head, stood out with his vivid saffron robes, his unassuming manner -- and for taking what some might call tree hugging to an entirely different level.
Using the holy induction ceremony customarily reserved for Buddhist monks, Mr. Bun Saluth ordained individual trees and eventually huge swaths of woodland, lending a sacred aura to thousands of acres in northwest Cambodia. He inspired villagers and ultimately the government to protect them from rampant logging, thereby regenerating a depleted forest. 
In doing so, Mr. Bun Saluth accomplished something that has eluded dozens of world leaders who gather regularly at the United Nations, including the annual general debate that ended Wednesday. Despite about two decades of conferences, conventions and commitments, the earth's biological diversity -- or biodiversity for short -- steadily erodes as ecosystems suffer and species die out.
Consensus that something needs to happen has been relatively easy. But the fight over what to do -- and who pays for it -- has dragged on for years.
As global issues go, biodiversity exists in the shadow of climate change, facing similar problems but attracting a fraction of the attention despite concerted efforts. (In case you had not noticed, the United Nations declared 2010 the Year of Biodiversity.)
Almost every United Nations member state is party to the 1992 Convention on Biodiversity, the holdouts being the United States, Andorra and the Vatican, United Nations officials said.
But like climate change, efforts to move forward have jammed along the well-worn fault line separating developed from developing nations.
The three pillars of the convention are conservation, sustainable development and fair use of resources. But the argument over patenting and paying royalties for those resources, among other issues, has fueled a protracted fight. It will play out next in late October at a conference in Nagoya, Japan.
The debate is so entrenched that a group of 17 nations, including heavyweights like Brazil, India and China, have formed an alliance with an unwieldy name, the Group of Like-Minded Megadiverse Countries, to combat what they call ''biopiracy.''
''Countries like Brazil and India are victims of biopiracy over many decades, and we have to protect our bioresources, we have to protect our traditional knowledge,'' said Jairam Ramesh, India's environment minister.
Bringing much of the developing world along, the Megadiverse accuse richer nations and their corporations of colonial practices -- pillaging natural resources and indigenous knowledge for medicine, cosmetics and the like without paying royalties. Rather than signing off on a universal protocol governing access and sharing the benefits, some Western nations have said agreements should be negotiated piecemeal.
The problem, according to United Nations officials and scientists, is that in the absence of a global agreement, nations are gradually passing one restrictive national law after another, to the point that a plant or insect that might help combat a scourge on a different continent can no longer be obtained. When Kenya wanted to combat an Asian fruit fly in recent years, for example, Sri Lanka blocked the export of the natural predator, said Achim Steiner, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Program.
Beyond that, scientists say, possibly lifesaving medicines or knowledge might disappear forever. Such losses are likely to worsen because the factors driving them -- changing habitat, pollution, overexploitation, invasive alien species and climate change -- are intensifying or at least not diminishing, scientists say.
About 1.9 million species have been identified, out of what scientists estimate is a total of around 15 million species on earth. (Microbes account for the anonymous bulk.) There is a spectrum of opinion about the broad risks facing species. Under the natural order of things, some scientists argue, 15 species would go extinct annually. Instead, they are disappearing at a rate estimated at 100 to 1,000 times that. Scientists dub the current loss the Sixth Great Extinction Event. No. 5 was 65 million years ago, when the dinosaurs perished.
But the loss often suffers from an out-of-sight, out-of-mind quality, so scientists try to draw attention to the possible fate of highly visible creatures like the polar bear.
Dr. Eric Chivian of Harvard Medical School points out that polar bears can sleep for months without losing bone mass or even urinating. Studying them might reveal secrets that help humans cope with osteoporosis or kidney failure. But if they die out because their once frozen environment melts, he says, all that could be lost.
It is just one example of how biodiversity and climate change are intertwined, scientists say.
''Every degree centigrade the planet warms will lead automatically to a 10 percent loss in known species,'' said Ahmed Djoghlaf, the executive secretary of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity. Even if the United Nations climate change agreement seeks to limit the temperature rise to two degrees, he said, ''It is a death sentence for 20 percent of known species.''
But as with climate change, officials and biodiversity advocates are losing faith in obtaining a ''big bang'' agreement that wraps all global efforts into one package.
Instead they hope piecemeal efforts by individual countries will eventually reach a critical mass. The United Nations and its allies try to spur that trend in various ways -- one is a series of studies assigning an economic value to efforts like forest preservation.
But developing countries are demanding that richer nations underwrite their conservation efforts. ''It seems that the standing forest and the wealth of Suriname's biodiversity are being taken for granted by the global community as there are no structures in place to provide incentives to continue on the path of sustainability,'' Desire Delano Bouterse, the president of Suriname, warned the General Assembly last week.
Poor people who depend on nature for sustenance are likely to suffer the most from the loss of biodiversity, officials say, so they are often the most invested in preserving it. Officials hope that by singling out local projects -- Mr. Bun Saluth's Monks Community Forest in Cambodia, a women's cooperative in Senegal that has helped bring back species of shellfish and a Vietnamese village that is preserving bamboo were all recognized at an awards ceremony in New York last week -- the grass roots will inspire politicians to act.
''The people who best know how to shape and drive development are still the people listened to least,'' said Mr. Steiner of the United Nations. ''We are erasing the hard disk of life before we have even begun to understand the value it represents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The United Nations honored Bun Saluth for using Buddhist teachings to preserve Cambodian forests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Logging in Brazil's rain forest in 2008. The earth's biological diversity is steadily eroding as ecosystems suffer and species die out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULO SANTOS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIODIVERSITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (76%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); RAIN FORESTS (74%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); ROYALTIES (67%); COSMETICS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



831 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Architecture Now Building New Names

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
On June 24, Polshek Partnership -- the prestigious 50-year-old architecture practice responsible for the Clinton presidential library, the Rose Center for Earth and Space at the American Museum of Natural History and the Santa Fe Opera House -- disappeared.
Actually, the firm didn't go anywhere. Only the name went away. Its replacement? Ennead.
While the move has surprised many in the design world, it is consistent with a growing trend toward firm names that sound more like video games than architecture practices -- H3, Obra, PARA-Project, Indie. ''There is a movement away from the spelling out of the usual white male architect at the head of the firm,'' said Amale Andraos, who is a founder of Work Architecture Company with her husband, Dan Wood, in 2003.
Then there's the New Haven firm MOS. It started with the name !@#? in 2003 before quickly realizing it was unpronounceable and made a Web address impossible. So the partners changed to MOS, which incorporates the first letters of their last names -- Michael Meredith and Hilary Sample -- and which they liked because it evoked moss and the hip-hop artist Mos Def. 
''Once you start an office, you realize it's not about one person,'' Mr. Meredith said. ''What you become responsible for is building a culture rather than doing all the work. It's not really about you.''
Emerging practitioners say the new nomenclature signifies a larger rejection of the idea of architect as singular creator and a retreat from the era of the ''starchitect'' fueled by the prerecession building boom. Anointing celebrity architects was arguably good for business, many practitioners say, but it did not represent the reality that it takes more than one person to design a building. The new names are a reaction against the image of the architect, embodied by Ayn Rand's character in ''The Fountainhead,'' Howard Roark -- the visionary artist against the world. ''With critical theory, the single hero Fountainhead leading the charge was really put into question,'' Ms. Andraos of Work said. ''There is a growing recognition that the principals lead the firm but it's very much a collective enterprise.''
Others say they are just trying to breathe new life into architecture's image. ''We grew up in a time with so many of these brand-name architects,'' said Brian Price, who started PARA-Project with Jonathan Lott in 2005. ''There's a kind of stodginess that's associated with that -- like accountant offices or lawyers -- that we didn't necessarily want to be a part of. We wanted to distance ourselves from a corporate identity that the name connotes.''
Florian Idenburg and Jing Liu tried to have it both ways by calling their Brooklyn firm Solid Objectives -- Idenburg Liu.
In the case of the Firm Formerly Known as Polshek, the name change was meant to reflect that James Polshek, its 80-year-old founder, now maintains only a limited role in the practice. The remaining nine partners wanted to more accurately signify their collaborative process. Ennead (pronounced EN-ee-ad), denotes a group of nine deities in Egyptian mythology.
Mr. Polshek -- whose firm started as James Stewart Polshek Architect, then became James Stewart Polshek and Associates, then James Stewart Polshek before settling on Polshek Partnership -- said he encouraged the transition. ''I wasn't actually the auteur behind everything that came out of the office -- how could I be?'' he said.
In choosing the new name, the Ennead partners say they looked to models of other collectives, like the graphic design firm Pentagram and the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, which has no conductor. ''It's very easy to imagine that architects are some solo genius laboring in the studio and that couldn't be further from the truth of how buildings get made,'' said Richard Olcott, one of the partners. ''They are made by people working together.''
But some people in the profession see the move as a repudiation of Mr. Polshek's legacy, and the squandering of a valuable brand. They also wonder what Ennead means and how to pronounce it. ''It sounds like a fraternity or something,'' said Barry Bergdoll, chief curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art. ''Why did they want to drop Jim Polshek's name? That seemed to me a kind of risky move. He's a very respected architect with a very distinguished career and some very, very fine and important buildings.''
Historically, some architecture practices have managed to survive well beyond the demise or departure of their name partners: McKim, Mead & White, for example. People still think of Pei Cobb Freed & Partners as I. M. Pei's firm, although Mr. Pei retired 20 years ago.
But for other traditionally named firms, the question of succession can be a difficult one, especially in today's challenging economic marketplace. At Gwathmey Siegel & Associates Architects and Davis Brody Bond Aedas, name partners -- Charles Gwathmey and J. Max Bond Jr. -- died last year. Both firms are moving forward. Robert Siegel, 71, said: ''It's a game plan I talked about with Charlie when he became ill: 'Do we continue on as a firm or do we stop?' '' Mr. Siegel added that he would like to see the firm's associates become equity partners over the next five years so he can become less primary. ''It's a work in progress,'' he said.
In many cases firms have faded away with their stars, and there are few guideposts as to how to prepare for succession. ''Every business person I talk to in the world -- including the big moguls of industry -- has the same conundrum,'' the architect Frank Gehry said. ''How do you pass on the baton to the next generation? I don't know what the answer is.'' (His firm is called Gehry Partners.)
There are earlier examples of celebrity architects who chose not to name their firms after themselves, like Thom Mayne (Morphosis) and Rem Koolhaas (OMA, or the Office for Metropolitan Architecture), though their firms are known because of them. The notion of a collective dates back to Walter Gropius and the Architects' Collaborative (TAC), which he founded in 1945 with seven younger architects in Cambridge, Mass. Other firms have made their names more neutral, like Hugh Hardy Architects, which became H3 in 2004, or Fox and Fowle, which morphed into FXFowle in 2005.
Mr. Polshek said he had been preparing for his transition out of the firm for years and had seen firsthand the downside of having one name personify a practice. For example, he said, potential clients were sometimes indignant if he wasn't present at project interviews. ''They would say, 'Where's Mr. Polshek?' '' he said. ''You can say he's dead, but he's not. It happened several times. There are jobs we didn't get as a consequence.''
But the choice of Ennead, with its emphasis on the number nine, raises a new issue -- what to do if a partner leaves, or joins? Susan Rodriguez, one of the partners, says that the firm's name will resonate no matter how many people have an ownership stake. ''There's a lot of magic to it -- baseball, the nine-square grid,'' she said, referring to an exercise given to architecture students.
''There are some people who know what it is,'' Mr. Olcott added in defense of Ennead. ''It's a crossword puzzle clue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Clinton, in 2001 with a model of the Clinton library in Little Rock, Ark., designed by Polshek Partnership (now Ennead), with the architects Richard Olcott, left, and James Stewart Polshek. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LIBRARIES (73%); TRENDS (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (66%); RAP MUSIC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



832 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Measure to Help With 9/11 Health Care

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The House approved legislation on Wednesday that would provide billions of dollars for medical treatment to rescue workers and residents of New York City who suffered illnesses from breathing in toxic fumes, dust and smoke from ground zero.
The vote was 268 to 160, with 17 Republicans joining Democrats in support of the bill. Opposing the measure were 157 Republicans and 3 Democrats. Republicans raised concerns about the $7.4 billion cost of the program.
But the bill's fate in the Senate is unclear. Republicans have enough votes to filibuster the measure, and Senate Democrats have not shown great interest in bringing it to the floor. 
The bill aroused impassioned debate on the House floor as 9/11 responders and their relatives watched from the gallery.
The vote occurred as Congress moved to finish its legislative business quickly and adjourn this week to allow lawmakers to head home to campaign before the elections on Nov. 2.
The bill calls for providing $3.2 billion over the next eight years to monitor and treat injuries stemming from exposure to toxic dust and debris at ground zero. New York City would pay 10 percent of those health costs. The bill would also set aside $4.2 billion to reopen the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund to provide compensation for job and economic losses.
In addition, the bill includes a provision that would allow money from the Victim Compensation Fund to be paid to any eligible claimant who receives a payment under the pending settlement of lawsuits that 10,000 rescue and cleanup workers filed against the city. Now, those who receive a settlement from the city are limited in how much compensation they can receive from the fund, according to the bill's sponsors.
There are nearly 60,000 people enrolled in health monitoring and treatment programs related to the 9/11 attacks, according to the sponsors of the bill. The federal government provides the bulk of the money for those programs.
Congress has previously appropriated money on an annual basis to monitor the health of people injured at ground zero and to provide them with medical treatment.
The bill's supporters have demanded that the government put in place a longer-term health program for 9/11 responders, fearful that annual appropriations are subject to the whims of Congress and the White House.
But such a program has been opposed by many Republicans, who raised concerns about creating a new federal entitlement to provide health benefits when the federal government is running a huge deficit.
On the House floor, Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, who opposed the bill, argued that it was unnecessary given that Congress had created programs like the Victim Compensation Fund.
After noting that the compensation fund had made billions of dollars in payouts, Mr. Barton said that although ''we want to help the victims,'' the bill would burden taxpayers with a new entitlement program.
The bill's supporters argued that the nation had a moral obligation to help workers who risked their lives to respond to the crisis at ground zero.
''The 9/11 responders have received a lot of awards and praise, but they tell me that what they really need is health care,'' said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York and one of the bill's chief sponsors.
Known as the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, the bill bears the name of a New York Police Department detective who participated in the efforts at ground zero for about three weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attack.
He died in January 2006 after he developed symptoms common to first responders, including difficulty breathing and flulike conditions. But the cause of his death became the source of debate after the city's medical examiner concluded that it was not directly related to the 9/11 attacks.
Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, who described the bill as an ''irresponsible overreach,'' seized on the controversy surrounding Mr. Zadroga's death, saying, ''This bill is deceptive, starting with its title.''
The vote on Wednesday was the second time this year the House had taken up the 9/11 health bill.
In July, Democratic leaders brought the bill to the floor under special rules requiring a two-thirds majority to pass it. A majority of the lawmakers in the chamber supported the bill, but the vote in July fell short of the two-thirds needed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Fay, center, a Spring Lake, N.J., firefighter, and Steve Conklin, of New York, with Representative Anthony Weiner, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); POLITICS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); TERRORISM (69%); LITIGATION (64%)

PERSON: JOE BARTON (78%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



833 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Two Are Confirmed for Fed's Board

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Wednesday night confirmed Janet L. Yellen as vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve and Sarah Bloom Raskin as a Fed governor, adding two officials to the Fed's board as it faces a decision on whether to take new steps to stimulate the economy. 
Ms. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and Ms. Raskin, Maryland's commissioner of financial regulation, were confirmed unanimously. President Obama nominated them in April.
Ms. Yellen was a member of the Fed's board from 1994 to 1997 and was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1997 to 1999, under President Bill Clinton. A leading economist, she is seen as being particularly concerned about the country's high unemployment rate. The Fed has a dual mandate to promote price stability and maximum employment.
The confirmation of a third person to the Fed's board -- Peter A. Diamond, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -- stalled after several Republican senators expressed objections. Mr. Obama renominated him on Sept. 13.
The Fed's seven-member board has been down to four members since Donald L. Kohn, the former vice chairman, retired on Sept. 1.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



834 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Advocate Seeks to Reassure Bankers About Protection Agency

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Elizabeth Warren, who is overseeing the creation of a federal agency charged with protecting consumers from abusive financial products, told Wall Street executives on Wednesday evening that her relationship with them need not be antagonistic, or even adversarial.
In her first major speech since President Obama named her to get the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau up and running, Ms. Warren struck a conciliatory tone toward bankers with whom she has often been on frosty terms. 
She was the speaker at a private leadership dinner sponsored by the Financial Services Roundtable, which had expressed reservations about the creation of the bureau. Ms. Warren this month was named an assistant to Mr. Obama rather than director of the bureau, a job that requires Senate confirmation.
''First, in the weeks and months ahead, I'm going to listen more than I'm going to talk, and I'm going to keep my door open,'' Ms. Warren told the audience of about 400 executives, according to a transcript of her remarks provided by the Treasury Department. (The dinner was closed to the news media.)
''And second, I am committed to helping build a consumer credit structure that works -- works for families, works for the financial services industry, and works for the American economy.''
Ms. Warren, a Harvard law professor who is an authority on bankruptcy, pointed out aspects of the bureau that are favored by financial institutions.
The new agency will oversee banks and nonbank lenders -- like payday lenders, check cashing businesses and debt collection agencies -- and ensure that they follow the same rules.
It will consolidate consumer protection responsibilities from seven different agencies -- including the Federal Reserve and the Department of Housing and Urban Development -- thereby streamlining the regulatory process.
In addition, Ms. Warren said the bureau was intended to not only create new regulations ''but also to get rid of old regulations that are dated, expensive or just plain don't work.''
Furthermore, Ms. Warren said: ''We have a chance to take a step back to ask: What vision should drive this agency? What test should be used to determine when the agency should act, when it should not, and which tools it should use when it does take action? What is the central aim of financial services regulation?''
Her remarks did not provide specific answers to those questions, but she tried to reassure the bankers.
''I come to Washington as a genuine believer in markets and a genuine believer that the purpose of regulating the consumer credit market is to make that market work for buyers and sellers alike: a level playing field where the best products at the best prices win,'' said Ms. Warren, who until recently was chairwoman of the Congressional panel overseeing the 2008 Wall Street bailout effort, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
Ms. Warren, who is popular among liberals, also made it clear that she intended to remain a robust advocate for consumers. She said she would not support ''a return to the Wild West where companies use deception to pick off every consumer they can get in their sights,'' but instead a market in which consumers can make well-informed choices among products with clearly defined terms.
And Ms. Warren, who at several points made reference to her modest upbringing in Oklahoma, also said that the past emphasis on increasingly complex and little-read disclosure notices was not her idea of transparency.
''Where I come from, nobody calls fine print, hidden fees and surprise penalties 'negotiated contract terms' or 'innovations,' '' she said, in a jab at the language lenders have used to describe complex contractual terms. ''On a polite day, my brothers in Oklahoma call that kind of stuff 'garbage.' They don't care if it is there because regulators required it, because the companies' lawyers were trying to ward off lawsuits, or because it was a good place to hide another new fee. They simply see a world in which the financial institutions they do business with are not on their side.''
Ms. Warren said that traditional regulation would call for prohibiting certain practices, or additional disclosure requirements, but said that ''neither restores customer trust.''
Instead, Ms. Warren spoke favorably about what is known as a principle-based approach to regulation that starts with broadly agreed-upon concepts like ''fair treatment for consumers.''
''Instead of layering on regulations that don't fully protect consumers, a better approach would focus on how to give consumers the power to make the right choices for their families -- and, at the same time, to ease the regulatory burden for the lenders,'' she said.
For example, she said that simplification of credit card agreements -- replacing pages of fine print with clear and easy-to-read terms -- could benefit both consumers and card issuers.
Scott E. Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs at the Roundtable, whose members include Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, said, ''It was a good introductory meeting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren said she was committed to helping to build a consumer credit structure that worked for everyone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (69%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (66%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (50%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (58%); FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



835 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Diller Resigns as Chairman of Live Nation

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
The merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster last year created an unusual executive power-sharing arrangement and united some of the media and music industry's biggest egos in a single boardroom -- a recipe, some predicted, for turmoil. 
Those voices proved prescient this week.
At a board meeting on Tuesday in Los Angeles, Barry Diller, the billionaire media mogul who became chairman of Live Nation Entertainment after the merger, resigned after clashing with management over personnel and policy matters, according to two people briefed on the matter who spoke anonymously.
The company announced the departure in an unorthodox fashion. Instead of immediately issuing a statement, the company's executive chairman, Irving Azoff, posted the news via Twitter on Wednesday morning. He first bashed the press, writing, ''as usual the press reports are ridiculous.'' He continued, ''it was always Barry Diller's intention to step down'' as chairman during the first year of the merger.
According to one person involved in the process who was not authorized to speak publicly, however, some board members had already decided that they would seek to remove Mr. Diller as chairman if he did not choose to step down. This person said Mr. Diller had pushed for certain moves that company management had resisted -- including seeking to switch the company's stock listing to Nasdaq from the New York Stock Exchange, and replacing the company's chief financial officer.
News of Mr. Diller's decision to step down as chairman -- he will remain on the board -- was first reported by The Hollywood Reporter.
Mr. Diller had been chairman of Ticketmaster, and according to the terms of the merger, he took on the same role in the new company. The management of Live Nation is overseen by Mr. Azoff, who is executive chairman, and Michael Rapino, who is the chief executive.
Representatives for Live Nation did not immediately return calls seeking comment. Mr. Diller issued his own statement through a spokeswoman for IAC/InterActiveCorp, his e-commerce company: ''I have always said, since the merger of Ticketmaster and Live Nation, that I only planned to stay as chairman through the transition and integration of the two companies.''
The merger, which was announced in February 2009 and approved by regulators in January of this year, brought together the largest concert promoter in Live Nation, with the biggest seller of concert tickets. Additionally, Ticketmaster owned the biggest artist management firm, Front Line Management.
So far, the merger has been disappointing. The weak economy meant a dismal summer concert season, and the company was forced to cut ticket prices. After an investor day in July in which the company said its earnings would be far lower than anticipated, the stock plunged.
Shares closed Wednesday at $9.94, down roughly 40 percent from their postmerger high of $16.90.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EVENT MARKETING (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (84%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (90%); IRVING AZOFF (58%); MICHAEL RAPINO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



836 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Proposal Pending on Mileage For Heavy-Duty Vehicles

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For three decades, the federal government has calculated the fuel economy of cars and other ''light-duty vehicles'' and periodically tightened mileage standards. For the first time, it is preparing to do the same with heavy-duty vehicles, which could greatly reduce their consumption of diesel fuel.
The Obama administration could announce a proposal as early as this week for new mileage standards for heavy-duty vehicles beginning in the 2014 model year. Separately, the administration is readying new fuel economy standards for light-duty vehicles in the 2017 model year and beyond, after tightening standards last year for 2012 through 2016 models. 
The new standards would make it likely that technologies used in cars -- aerodynamic bodies, low-rolling-resistance tires, variable valve timing and hybrid electric propulsion -- would be introduced in box trucks, garbage trucks, cement mixers, school buses and tractor-trailers. But since heavy trucks are so varied, each of the technologies would be useful only in some types of vehicles.
The potential for improved fuel economy is considerable: a study issued in May by the National Academy of Sciences projected that fuel consumption in heavy-duty vehicles could be cut by one-third to one-half. Some of the technologies would make economic sense even at diesel prices of $1.10 a gallon, about a third of the current price, the study said.
''There really are huge opportunities ahead of us,'' said Dennis N. Assanis, one of the 19 scientists and engineers who produced the study.
Dr. Assanis, a professor at the University of Michigan who is director of its energy institute and automotive laboratory, said that while cars had become more efficient in the last few decades, holding down gasoline consumption, diesel use had risen.
The Obama administration is eager to see changes in the heavy-vehicle category because diesel fuel, used by most such vehicles, accounts for more than 10 percent of the nation's oil consumption and about 20 percent of the greenhouse gases emitted by the transportation sector. (Diesel emits more greenhouse gases per gallon than gasoline.)
In May, President Obamadirected the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which sets car mileage standards, to come up with a plan for trucks.
But the science academy study found that while the basic notion of miles traveled per gallon worked well for light-duty vehicles, the world of heavy-duty vehicles was ''much more complicated.'' As a yardstick for determining whether a fuel economy improvement is worthwhile for a heavy truck, it can be very misleading, the researchers said.
Some tractor-trailer trucks, for example, cover 100,000 miles a year, meaning that a small change in fuel economy can result in significant savings. But other vehicles -- a fire engine, say, or a bucket truck used by electric companies to maintain overhead wires -- travel very few miles.
What is more, the bulk of a bucket truck's fuel consumption is expended operating the bucket while the truck is stationary, making miles per gallon less of a consideration.
But Drew Kodjak, executive director of the International Council on Clean Transportation, said varied usage patterns should not slow the introduction of new rules. ''There are really three classes of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles that matter: the tractor-trailer trucks, the large urban delivery trucks and the one-ton pickup trucks,'' he said.
Those three categories account for 90 percent of fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of vehicles to be covered by the rules, he said.
Fleet-truck buyers pay far more attention to fuel economy than car buyers. Nonetheless, ''a lot of guys out there will go for the cheapest cab they can buy, the cheapest tires and the cheapest everything,'' said David F. Merrion, an automotive engineer and a member of the science academy panel.
Regulation poses challenges because trucks do not have manufacturers in the same sense that cars do. Auto companies design engines, transmissions and bodies, assigning specifications for tires and other crucial parts made by other manufacturers. Heavy-duty vehicles, however, are very often assembled and sold by ''integrators'' that mix and match components.
''There is no Ford Motor Company in that value stream,'' said Andrew Brown Jr., chief technology officer of the Delphi Corporation, who led the science academy study. ''The players today generally don't communicate with each other -- they don't have to.''
Another complication is that similar trucks may need vastly different equipment to comply with fuel standards. A hybrid electric system, for example, would be beneficial in stop-and-go traffic or over rolling terrain, but it would add useless weight to a tractor-trailer that cruises at 65 m.p.h. on flat terrain.
Duke Drinkard, a retired vice president at Southeastern Freight Lines who also participated in the science academy study, said that maximizing fuel economy would mean equipping a full-size tractor-trailer differently depending on whether it was hauling its maximum weight or a cargo limited by volume.
While heavy trucks may travel just five or six miles on a gallon of fuel, on a per-ton basis that can be more efficient, said Allen Schaeffer, executive director of the Diesel Technology Forum, a trade group. If the regulations encouraged shippers to break up loads and place them on smaller trucks, fuel consumption would rise, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



837 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Reform to Enliven Leaders' Meeting in China

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON; Michael Wines contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Against a backdrop of a rare discussion about political reform, China's top leaders are preparing to set the country's economic policies and political leadership for the next decade.
The Chinese Communist Party's annual plenum, a chance for top officials across the country to hash out strategy, will meet from Oct. 15 to 18, according to a government statement on Tuesday.
But already, the country's political classes are chattering about what may or may not happen at this secretive gathering.
The only firm piece of business known to be on the agenda is the country's Five-Year Plan, which could move China toward a less export-oriented economic model -- with implications for issues like the United States trade deficit. It is also likely that officials will begin to determine the succession to the leadership duo of President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, both of whom are to retire in two years. 
But it is the talk about political reform that makes this year's meeting intriguing. Some officials have been calling for an overhaul of the country's political system, saying it is dominated by powerful interest groups that are shutting out innovation and hurting the Chinese people. Others at the top have been silent or have explicitly rejected such talk.
''Some in the leadership are concerned with rising tensions due to inequality of wealth, the demolition of people's homes, the petitioners -- there is a sense that something needs to be done,'' said Victor Shih, a professor of political science at Northwestern University.
''At the same time they know it's a dangerous game; in the past when the party signaled some loosening, protests have coalesced that went beyond the ruling party's control.''
To many, China hardly seems in need of a system overhaul. The country weathered the global financial crisis with robust economic growth, overtaking Japan this year as the world's second largest economy. For several years, some foreign pundits have praised a ''Beijing consensus'' of market reforms and a strong central government that can make tough but unpopular decisions as a model for other developing countries.
But on the ground, the situation is far messier. Recent growth has been bolstered by a large stimulus package, not the bold changes that characterized China's economic takeoff in the 1980s and '90s. The last serious reform push took place early last decade when the country was joining the World Trade Organization. Since then, the pendulum has swung back to strong state involvement, with quasi-monopolistic state enterprises crowding out private enterprise.
Liberal economists in Beijing have been warning about the long-term dangers of this trend. One of the chief economic thinkers, Yao Yang, a Peking University professor, published an article earlier this year that encapsulated their views. Writing in the journal Foreign Affairs, he argued that in decades past the Communist Party took relatively unbiased positions on economic matters, allowing it to defy vested interests and choose pro-growth policies.
Now, the party has become closely intertwined with China's biggest businesses -- which are mostly state owned and directly managed by the party. At the same time, it remains atop a one-party state with few checks and balances, giving those businesses insurmountable advantages over private enterprises and citizens. Critics say that that power structure worsens China's inequality and cannot be easily rectified without systematic changes. Professor Yao's concluded that ''ultimately there is no alternative to greater democratization.''
In August, speaking in Shenzhen, the Chinese city that pioneered many economic changes, Prime Minister Wen echoed these arguments in a speech carried by the party's flagship daily, People's Daily.
''Without the guarantee of political system reform, the successes of restructuring the economic system will be lost and the goal of modernization cannot be realized,'' Mr. Wen said, according to the article on his speech.
When Chinese leaders talk about political reform they often mean making the administrative system more efficient or open, but not democratic in a Western sense. Some analysts, like Russell Leigh Moses, who is based in Beijing, think Mr. Wen's speech was meant to be an attempt to advocate more sweeping changes.
''There are forces within the government that believe administrative reform has run its course,'' Mr. Moses said. ''And now it's time to get into the nub of the challenge facing China, which is, what sort of polity do you want?''
What does seem clear is that Mr. Wen's call has exposed differing priorities among senior leaders. Also speaking in Shenzhen, which was celebrating the 30th anniversary of its creation as a Special Economic Zone, President Hu did not mention political reform. More pointedly, the country's head of security, Zhou Yongkang, rejected political reform. In an article carried in the party's main theoretical journal, Qiushi, Mr. Zhou wrote that some party members had been influenced by ''erroneous Western political and legal ideas.''
Mr. Wen, however, reiterated his support for political reform last week, albeit in a less influential setting. Speaking to Chinese-American business people in New York, Mr. Wen said political reform would lead to ''a relaxed political environment, so people can better express their independent spirit and creativity.''
The link between these arguments and this year's economic plan is that few observers can see substantive economic changes taking place without curbing the party's power.
''Wen's speech is part of a discussion on the structure of growth,'' said Arthur Kroeber, the managing director of the Beijing-based economic research group Dragonomics. ''China needs a little less of growth at all costs.''
That could be reflected in the main topic of discussion at the plenum, the country's Five-Year Plan. In years past, the plan has set firm targets for economic growth, usually 8 percent, which Mr. Kroeber said was a signal to local leaders that all that mattered was growth -- regardless of the social or political costs. This led to large-scale land expropriations in Chinese cities, rampant pollution and a preference for state monopolies. Now, he said, the hope among many economists in Beijing is that the party will back off its growth target, signaling that it will accept slower growth in exchange for real changes.
During the plenum, the country's future leader, Xi Jinping, is likely to be appointed to the Central Military Commission. A position overseeing military affairs is the last major appointment Mr. Xi needs to round out his resume and cement his position as heir to President Hu, who currently leads the military commission.
Last year, Mr. Xi was also expected to have been appointed to the slot, but he was not. Political analysts are unsure of how to interpret this, but the consensus among China watchers is that Mr. Xi's position is secure, and he is likely to receive the military post soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Construction sites dot Beijing, a sign of China's robust economy. China's leaders will soon unveil a new Five-Year Plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIEGO AZUBEL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PETITIONS (64%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



838 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Definition Of Rich Now A Tax Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Much of the debate about whether to extend the Bush tax cuts has focused on big economic issues: how the decision might affect the fragile economy, the widening federal deficit and hiring by small businesses.
As the political battle drags on, however, it has also veered into a more basic matter of fairness, whether a person who earns more than $200,000 a year should be taxed at rates similar to those who make $5 million.
President Obama has proposed preserving the cuts for middle-class Americans and letting them expire for the top 2.5 percent of taxpayers -- individuals who make more than $200,000 a year and families whose income exceeds $250,000.
But others in Congress have questioned why ending what Mr. Obama frequently calls ''tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires'' should also raise taxes on families making $250,000. The Senate will not vote on the matter until after the midterm elections, and some Democrats are pushing for a compromise that would leave the cuts in place for those higher up the income scale. 
''I think the $250,000 level is too low,'' said Senator James Webb, Democrat of Virginia. ''I'm asking that it be raised.''
One proposal being discussed is a millionaires' tax, which would create one or two additional tax brackets for the wealthiest Americans and eliminate the Bush tax cuts only for those who earn more than seven-figure incomes.
But Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress have thus far held firm to the dividing line of $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for families. And others warn that making the tax code more complicated often has the unintended consequence of encouraging taxpayers to circumvent the system.
''If you make the tax law simpler, more easily understood and fairer, you end up with a higher level of compliance and more revenue,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, co-sponsor of a tax overhaul plan that would eliminate many deductions and exemptions and reduce the total number of brackets from six to three.
Leaders in the Senate announced last week that they would not vote on the matter until after the elections on Nov. 2 because some Democrats in tight races worried that Mr. Obama's plan would leave them vulnerable to campaign attack ads accusing them of raising taxes.
Most of the opposition to the plan has come from those who warn that ending the cuts, even on the wealthiest, would further weaken the struggling economy and harm small businesses.
But because the cuts will have expired for everyone on Jan. 1 unless Congress takes action, lawmakers are virtually certain to revisit the issue in the lame-duck session.
At the heart of the debate is the fact that, like most Western countries, the United States has a progressive tax code that levies higher rates on people with higher incomes. But the concept of class and the issue of taxes are both so politically charged that discussions about how to calibrate those rates and how much income qualifies someone as rich in the contemporary United States are incendiary.
During the presidential campaign in 2008, the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, set off a fury when he was asked the dividing line between middle class and rich and replied that it was $5 million, a statement he said was intended as a joke. Mr. Obama's response was $150,000, a figure that is three times the median family income.
With unemployment at 9.6 percent and the economy languishing, discussions about the financial pressures facing the wealthiest Americans can quickly devolve into shouting matches.
A University of Chicago professor earlier this month wrote a post on an academic blog complaining that if Mr. Obama's proposal became law, he and his wife, who earn more than $300,000 combined, might have to lay off their housekeeper.
Responses to the post were so visceral and angry that the professor, M. Todd Henderson, deleted it from the Internet, saying that the ''electronic lynch mob'' had made him fear for his family's safety.
But in some expensive sections of the country, many families with income levels near the $250,000 cutoff insist that they have more in common with middle-class Americans than millionaires or billionaires.
''You take a couple in Westchester County, a police officer with a lot of overtime and a principal at a public school,'' said Vincent R. Cervone, a certified public accountant in New York City. ''They're grateful to be working. They aren't in danger of eviction or starving. But the cost of the average house is $500,000 -- five times the national average. Taxes are higher than the rest of the country. If they have a couple of children in college, can you call them rich? Not by any common-sense standard.''
The dispute over what income level qualifies as rich is caused, in part, by the tendency of people to gauge their own wealth by comparing themselves to those closest to them. A study released this month by two Princeton University professors found that in most of the country, people feel comfortably middle class if they earn $70,000. But in New York City, the figure was $165,000. The median income in New York City is $55,980, according to the Census Bureau.
J. Bradford DeLong, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said many of the top earners in the United States did not consider themselves rich because they compared themselves to the statistically small segment of the people who earned more than them, rather than the much larger segment who made less.
''It is pathetic and embarrassing that somebody with five times the median household income, someone in the top 2 or 3 percent of the population, thinks of himself as just another 'average Joe,' '' said Professor DeLong, who was a deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury Department in the Clinton administration. ''Why don't you ask someone who makes $40,000 or $50,000 a year if they have a lot in common with a family making $250,000?''
The fact that families making $250,000 are sometimes being invoked in the same terms as billionaires is a symptom of one of the paradoxes of the American tax system: at the same time that wealth has become far more concentrated in recent decades, the tax code has become far less precise in differentiating levels of affluence.
Today's tax code not only has far lower rates than it had a half century ago, it has fewer brackets -- just six. Mr. Obama's plan would raise the top bracket (which affects income for individual filers who earn over $382,550) to 39.6 percent, from 35 percent. It would also raise the second-highest bracket to 36 percent, from 33 percent.
Mr. Obama's plan would charge the same rate on the 382,551st dollar of earnings as it would on the 30 millionth.
Tax brackets at the upper end of the income scale were not always drawn so broadly. In 1970, when someone earning $37,000 had the buying power of a $200,000 income today, there were 25 income brackets. The taxpayer with $37,000 was taxed at the middle of the scale -- 13 of the brackets charged higher rates to those with higher income.
Congress reduced the number of brackets in the 1980s in an effort to make the tax code simpler and to cut down on the abuse of shelters and deductions.
In the last 30 years, however, the percentage of total income earned by the top 1 percent of Americans has grown sharply -- to 23.5 percent in 2007, from about 9 percent in 1979. And the income share of the top 0.1 percent has grown even faster -- to 6 percent in 2007 from 2 percent in 1988.
Mr. Obama has used those income gains to argue that his plan is fair; at a town hall meeting last week, the president noted that 85 percent of the cost of extending the upper-income tax cuts would go to benefit ''millionaires and billionaires.''
But it is unclear what, if anything, Congress will do to address the issue. Republicans uniformly oppose letting any of the tax cuts expire. Democrats have vowed to pass Mr. Obama's plan after the elections. Given that they are likely to lose seats -- and possibly control of one or both houses of Congress -- it is uncertain whether they will follow through, compromise or simply extend all the cuts for a limited period.
Eric J. Toder, an economist at the Tax Policy Center, said that while the overall tax system was progressive now, there was historical precedent for creating new brackets to address a shift in income to the very highest end of the scale.
''The reason they fiddle around with the rate schedules and new brackets is to fine-tune,'' he said. ''The economic question is, What economic effects do you get in terms of sheltering income and how would it affect investment? But politics, not economics, will determine the outcome.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vincent R. Cervone said annual earnings of $250,000 didn't necessarily make a family rich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIM WEBB (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



839 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS FIND MANY BIG DONORS CUTTING SUPPORT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
Many wealthy Democratic patrons, who in the past have played major roles financing outside groups to help elect the party's candidates, are largely sitting out these crucial midterm elections.
Democratic donors like George Soros, the bete noire of the right, and his fellow billionaire Peter B. Lewis, who each gave more than $20 million to Democratic-oriented groups in the 2004 election, appear to be holding back so far.
''Mr. Soros believes that he can be most effective by funding groups that promote progressive policy outcomes in areas such as health care, the environment and foreign policy,'' said an adviser, Michael Vachon. ''So he has opted to fund those activities.'' 
The absence of these Democratic megadonors is contributing to a huge disparity in spending between pro-Republican and pro-Democratic groups. The groups wield huge influence in many House and Senate races because they can take in contributions of unlimited size.
In the last week, Republican-leaning groups outspent their Democratic counterparts on television by more than seven to one on Senate races and nearly four to one on House races across the country, according to data from the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising. The gap shows few signs of abating, even with the midterm election season in full swing.
The donors' reluctance stems from a variety of factors, including pessimism about the party's prospects in November, but also President Obama's strong condemnations of this kind of independent activity, both during the 2008 campaign and after he was elected.
For Mr. Soros, who was also a big donor in 2006 and 2008, it is a matter of being more focused on pushing to get the policy outcomes he wants than on the electoral process, Mr. Vachon said.
Mr. Soros gave $5 million each last year to organizations supporting the health care overhaul and the climate change bill, Mr. Vachon said. He also contributed $1.25 million this year to America Votes, an umbrella organization for a variety of liberal-leaning groups, which focuses on the voter mobilization that Mr. Soros has supported over the years.
The attention of Mr. Lewis, chairman of Progressive Insurance, also appears to be elsewhere this year. Jennifer Frutchy, who advises Mr. Lewis on his philanthropy, said he was focused at the moment on ''building progressive infrastructure and marijuana reform.''
''That's just where his head is right now,'' Ms. Frutchy said.
Many major donors, in fact, seem to be drawing a distinction between continuing to support left-leaning policy organizations and other institutions, and giving money to political groups focused on this election.
Labor unions are still promising to spend large sums of money backing Democrats. But they are not keeping up at this point with the flood of money going to Republican-leaning organizations. The landmark Supreme Court ruling in the Citizens United case this year that eased restrictions on corporate political spending has certainly benefited Republicans, but so has the political environment.
''We're concerned about it,'' said Tim Kaine, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, which is abiding by a pledge to restrict contributions from political action committees and lobbyists. ''Would it be easier to take that institutional money? Sure it would be.''
If the imbalance in spending continues, it would mark a reversal from the past, when Democrats held the advantage when it came to utilizing third-party groups that could accept unrestricted donations.
Interviews with Democratic operatives, most of whom would speak only on the condition of anonymity because they were discussing the internal dynamics of these groups, provided a broader portrait of the struggles they are facing as they court megadonors.
For donors, there is certainly an element of fatigue from giving cycle after cycle, as well as an economic squeeze brought on by the recession, the operatives said. But some more ideological donors are also upset that the Obama administration has not been more aggressive in pushing a liberal agenda. Big donors from Wall Street, including hedge fund executives and investment bankers, are also angry at the administration.
It also appears, however, that Republicans have outmaneuvered their Democratic counterparts since the Citizens United decision. They have taken advantage of Democratic broadsides against the ruling, which have inevitably had an effect on the attitudes of Democratic donors.
Mr. Obama devoted one of his weekly radio addresses this month to the effect he said untamed special interests were having on the midterm election. ''We can see for ourselves how destructive to our democracy this can become,'' he said. ''We see it in the flood of deceptive attack ads sponsored by special interests using front groups with misleading names.''
Several Democratic strategists said the White House's denunciations had made entreaties to prospective donors trickier.
''You can complain about the rules, or you can respond to them and fight back against the people who welcome those rule changes,'' said Craig Varoga, who heads up Patriot Majority, which has been supporting Senator Harry Reid in Nevada and has been one of the most active Democratic-leaning outside groups.
Belatedly, some additional Democratic third-party efforts are shaping up. An organization called Commonsense Ten is emerging as a conduit for large checks directed toward Senate races and recently went up on the air with television advertisements in Missouri and Washington State.
The group has been convening regularly with other Democratic-leaning groups -- labor unions, women's groups and others -- to coordinate efforts. It has lined up financial commitments to also get involved in the Senate races in Colorado, Wisconsin, New Hampshire and Kentucky, Democratic operatives said. The group is also contemplating jumping into races in Illinois, Connecticut and Delaware.
Over all, though, the group is talking about spending, along with its partner organizations, about $5 million, with commitments from donors so far for about half of that.
In contrast, American Crossroads and its affiliate, Crossroads GPS, the biggest Republican-oriented group involved in Senate races, has said it is well on its way to raising $50 million for this election.
Another group, America's Families First Action Fund, is shaping up as a major player on the House side among Democrats. But it has not yet even broadcast any ads.
Democratic leaders have been increasingly sounding the alarm about the disparity in spending, which may be contributing to something of a thaw among donors, or at least more openness to these efforts.
''It's a challenging fund-raising environment, to be sure,'' said Jim Jordan, a veteran political strategist who is working with Commonsense Ten. ''We're seeing signs lately, though, of a growing sense of awareness and urgency and engagement among our donor base.''
Whether that will translate into a late flood of cash remains to be seen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Soros has given less support to pro-Democratic groups. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



840 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in Iowa, Hears Barbed Questions in a Subdued Backyard

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- President Obama returned Wednesday to Iowa, the state that put him on the presidential map, this time fighting to keep his Democratic Party in power and confronting skeptical voters who challenged him on policies from tax cuts to health care.
Continuing his tour of American backyards, Mr. Obama received a reception that was polite and friendly, but also pointed, when he visited Sandy Clubb, the athletic director at Drake University, and her husband, Jeff, a middle school social studies teacher, in the upscale, leafy Beaverdale neighborhood here. 
About 70 people awaited him in the backyard, where Mr. Obama got an earful. One woman told him that her 24-year-old son had ''campaigned furiously for you and was very inspired by your message of hope,'' but is now out of college and struggling to find a job.
Another said she had ''great concerns about your health care bill.'' A priest told of an unemployed parishioner. A small-business owner expressed irritation with the president's plan to raise taxes for people earning more than $250,000, to which Mr. Obama, showing his own flash of own irritation, replied: ''Your taxes haven't gone up in this administration.''
The questions were so downbeat that at the end of the hour-long session, Mr. Obama tried to pick up the mood.
''As I listen to the questions,'' he said, ''it's a good reminder we've got a long way to go, but I do want everyone to be encouraged about our future.''
With just five weeks to go before Election Day, Mr. Obama is trying to gin up enthusiasm among beleaguered Democrats and reconnect with American voters who are deeply concerned about his stewardship of the economy, all the while drawing sharp contrasts between Democrats and Republicans.
He arrived here Tuesday night, after a raucous get-out-the-vote rally on the campus of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and promptly dropped in on his favorite Des Moines haunt, the Baby Boomers Cafe, to visit privately with friends and supporters. (The cafe bakes a chocolate chunk cookie that became a favorite of the president during his campaign; locals call it the ''Obama Cookie.'')
Mr. Obama carried Iowa with 54 percent of the vote in 2008. But a poll in The Des Moines Register this week found that 55 percent of likely voters in Iowa disapproved of the president's performance -- numbers that are not much different from elsewhere in the country.
Wednesday morning's question-and-answer session at the Clubb home was the fifth in a series of ''backyard conversations'' Mr. Obama has been holding. Each has had a theme: health care in Falls Church, Va., last week; education in Albuquerque on Tuesday; the middle class Wednesday morning in Des Moines. In each, Mr. Obama took on Republicans, who last week released their Pledge to America agenda.
Mr. Obama has been using the backyard events to draw a contrast between the two parties, and has been accusing Republicans of proposing $700 billion in tax cuts for the rich without offering specifics on how to pay for them. In Des Moines on Wednesday, he told voters that the Republican lawmakers ''didn't really speak honestly to the American people about how we're going to get this country on track.''
Later in the day, Mr. Obama took that message to Richmond, Va., straight to the home district of one of his chief Republican detractors, Representative Eric Cantor, the House Republican whip, for another backyard conversation. But this one was moved to a local recreation center to escape the rain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with voters in the backyard of Sandy and Jeff Clubb's house in Des Moines, and he got an earful from the dozens of people in the audience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



841 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Eye on China, House Votes for Greater Tariff Powers

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House of Representatives sent an unusually confrontational signal to the Chinese leadership on Wednesday, voting overwhelmingly to give the Obama administration expanded authority to impose tariffs on virtually all Chinese imports to the United States.
The move, which could affect more than $300 billion in goods this year, was made in retaliation for the country's refusal to revalue its currency.
The bill passed 348 to 79 and included the support of 99 Republicans, a highly unusual bipartisan vote at a time when large numbers of House Republicans have rarely joined Democrats on an economic issue. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has long pressed China trade issues, personally gaveled the vote closed. Nonetheless, prospects for Senate approval are unclear.
The action was intended to hand President Obama new leverage in what has become a major flashpoint between the world's two largest economies. While tariffs have been placed on specific products, like steel and tires, because of evidence of unfair export subsidies, the threat of putting sizable tariffs on a country's entire line of exports to the United States is highly unusual -- and, some argue, of dubious legality under international trade law. 
It reflects both election-year politics over a loss of American jobs and great frustration over unfulfilled promises by China to allow its currency to rise in value, which would make Chinese goods less competitive in the United States.
The Obama administration never took an emphatic position on the legislation and some officials say that, if passed, signed into law and challenged at the World Trade Organization, it might well be struck down. But this is a case where the symbolism may be more important than the legal niceties, and for that reason, the White House has been of two minds about the bill.
Mr. Obama has tried to use the rising public anger over China's trade advantage to argue to Chinese leaders that the United States would no longer tolerate deliberate currency manipulation, a point Mr. Obama made repeatedly in a meeting last week with Wen Jiabao, China's prime minister. He did so again on Wednesday in Des Moines, where one businessman asked the president about the issue.
''The reason that I'm pushing China about their currency is because their currency is undervalued,'' he said, adding: ''People generally think that they are managing their currency in ways that make our goods more expensive to sell and their goods cheaper to sell here. And that contributes -- that's not the main reason for our trade imbalance -- but it's a contributing factor to our trade imbalance.''
But in conversations with Congress, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and other officials have warned of the danger of touching off a trade war, in which China blocks American goods in retaliation, that could hurt both economies.
The risks go beyond trade. Mr. Obama is pressing China for help on cutting exports to Iran, managing a dangerous leadership transition in North Korea and some kind of accord on curbing carbon outputs that contribute to global warming. He is also coming up with what one senior administration official called on Tuesday ''new rules of the road'' over disputed maritime territory.
But in Beijing, and on Capitol Hill, all that pales in comparison to the currency dispute, which is often portrayed in the Chinese news media as an effort to curb China's growth, and thus its power.
Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell, called the legislation ''a shot across the bow that indicates a clear escalation from overheated rhetoric about Chinese currency policy to more substantive action.''
While it is unlikely there will be a trade war, he said, ''there is now a real risk that a cycle of tit-for-tat trade sanctions could spin out of control and cause some real, if not lasting, damage.''
Under the bill, Mr. Obama would not have personal control to turn sanctions on or off. The legislation would make it easier for the Commerce Department to place duties on imports from countries that have ''fundamentally undervalued'' currencies -- defined as ''protracted, large-scale intervention'' in foreign exchange markets; an undervaluation of at least 5 percent; persistent global current account surpluses; and ''excessive'' foreign asset reserves.
Traditionally, only direct subsidies to an industry, rather than the indirect help that comes from an undervalued currency, have been considered a reason for retaliatory tariffs. Because so many countries have managed their currency rates for so long, it is unclear that the W.T.O. would uphold any American efforts to make the manipulation of a currency a justification for action.
While the bill did not mention China by name, the criteria were clearly written with China, the largest creditor of the United States, in mind.
In response, the official Xinhua news agency quoted China's commerce ministry spokesman, Yao Jian, as saying: ''Starting a countervailing investigation in the name of exchange rates does not conform with relevant W.T.O. rules.''
So far the administration has been reluctant to pursue retaliation against China. The Treasury Department has repeatedly declined to formally declare China a currency manipulator. And last month, the Commerce Department decided not to investigate allegations that China's currency practices amounted to an improper export subsidy.
''The United States does not gain leverage in these negotiations by doing things China doesn't find credible,'' said Marc L. Busch, a political scientist at Georgetown. ''The Chinese are aware that this is just not going to fly.''
But the Obama administration may have few other options and few allies. Europeans are largely uninterested in the problem: the euro has weakened because of the sovereign debt crisis, limiting European incentives to get involved. Japan is intensely interested, and this month intervened in the currency markets for the first time since 2004, moving to devalue the yen unilaterally.
But in the House, the politics of the moment seemed more important than the long-run economic strategy of managing economic relations with China.
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that ''China's persistent manipulation of its currency'' had resulted in a ''tilted field of competition'' and the loss of as many as 1.5 million American jobs.
''This manipulation is one of the causes of outsourcing of our jobs -- manufacturing and other good jobs,'' he said. ''Talk hasn't worked.''
The top Republican on the committee, Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, said that the Obama administration had been insufficiently engaged in securing international pressure on the Chinese; that the bill would not promote Mr. Obama's goal of doubling American exports over five years; and that other issues -- like China's tolerance for violations of intellectual property rights -- were as significant as the currency undervaluation. Even so, Mr. Camp said, ''I will vote for this bill because it signals to China that Congress's patience is running out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sander M. Levin is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN J. MYERS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); EXPORT PROMOTION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); WEN JIABAO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



842 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: California's Environment

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Tom Joad Gave Up,'' by David Brooks (column, Sept. 28): 
I disagree with Mr. Brooks's contention that California's environmental movement is anti-progressive, and that policy protecting the environment contributes to California's current crisis.
Going back to the days of Teddy Roosevelt and John Muir, there is nothing more progressive than using legislation to protect our country's iconic places. Other states have followed California's more stringent automobile emissions standards, and our global warming and clean energy program, now under attack by Texas oil companies and the Koch brothers, has also been a template for similar legislation in other states.
I'm disappointed that Mr. Brooks would retreat to the tired argument that good environmental policy is bad for business; in fact, clean energy is the only growing sector of California's struggling economy. Forward-looking environmental legislation is good for our air and water, our special places, our public health and our economy.
Pamela King Palitz San Francisco, Sept. 28, 2010
The writer is an environmental health advocate and staff attorney at Environment California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



843 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
IN INQUIRY, THE VATICAN
Faces the Modern World
When Rome magistrates opened an investigation into the Vatican bank over transparency issues, it was not only a bold assertion of state over church, but it also pointed to one of the Vatican's greatest continuing challenges: facing modernity. PAGE A16
PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY 
Despite about two decades of conferences, conventions and commitments, the earth's biological diversity steadily erodes as ecosystems suffer and species die out. Consensus that something needs to happen has been relatively easy. But the fight over what to do -- and who pays for it -- has dragged on for years. PAGE A11
SYRIA MEDIA CLAMPDOWN
A draft law regulating online media would clamp down on Syrian bloggers and other journalists, forcing them to register as syndicate members and submit their writing for review. Other Arab countries regularly jail journalists who express dissident views, but Syria may be the most restrictive of all. PAGE A
KOREAS TO HOLD TALKS
Just hours after a new leadership structure took shape in North Korea, a South Korean official said that the two Koreas would hold military talks at the border village of Panmunjom. The two sides have not held such talks in two years. PAGE A12
ATTACKS ON GREEN ZONE
The heavily fortified Green Zone in Iraq's capital has in recent weeks come under an intensifying barrage of rocket attacks, and a senior American military commander suggested that Iranian-backed militias were behind the attacks in an effort to influence the formation of a new Iraqi government. PAGE A20
France Faulted on Expulsions A14
National
INFANT SLEEP POSITIONERS
Pose Death Risk, U.S. Says
Twelve infants have been suffocated and dozens have been endangered by sleep positioners marketed as protecting against sudden infant death syndrome, federal officials said. The officials, from two federal agencies, said the devices -- flat or inclined mats with side bolsters -- should be taken off the market. PAGE A24
FEARS OF MILITARY DISCONNECT
The United States is at risk of developing a cadre of military leaders who are cut off politically, culturally and geographically from the population they are sworn to protect, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates told an audience at Duke University. PAGE A28
OBAMA STUMPS IN IOWA
President Obama returned to Iowa, the state that put him on the presidential map, this time fighting to keep his Democratic Party in power and confronting skeptical voters who challenged him on policies including tax cuts and health care. PAGE A26
FOUR SUICIDES AT FORD HOOD
Four veterans of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan died this week from what appeared to be self-inflicted gunshot wounds at Fort Hood in central Texas, raising the toll of soldiers who died there at their own hands to a record and alarming Army commanders. PAGE A23
New York
HOUSE PASSES BILL TO HELP
With 9/11 Health Care
The House approved legislation that would provide billions of dollars for medical treatment to rescue workers and residents of New York City who suffered illnesses from breathing in toxic fumes, dust and smoke from ground zero. PAGE A32
Business
HOUSE CONFRONTS CHINA
In Vote on Tariff Power
The House of Representatives sent an unusually confrontational signal to the Chinese leadership, voting overwhelmingly to give the Obama administration expanded authority to impose tariffs on virtually all Chinese imports to the United States. The move, which would affect more than $300 billion in goods this year, was made in retaliation for the country's refusal to revalue its currency. PAGE B1
DEBATING DEFINITION OF RICH
As the political battle about whether to extend the Bush tax cuts drags on, it has also veered into a conversation about which taxpayers should be considered rich. PAGE B1
Sports
PRESSURE IS RAISED
In Armstrong Investigation
People inside Lance Armstrong's inner circle of friends and colleagues are being called to testify in front of a grand jury investigating suspected doping and fraud in professional cycling, raising the intensity of the inquiry into the possibility of Armstrong's involvement in crimes. PAGE B18
Arts
INNOVATIVE MARKETING
For an Unusual Film
The creative and business team behind the film adaptation of the best-selling book ''Freakonomics,'' filled with innovative, controversial economic ideas, is trying to embrace the contrarian spirit of the book, but in part out of necessity. PAGE C1
Home
GOING GREEN,
But Still Guilty
Living in an environmentally responsible way, for the truly observant greenie, can be difficult. When one is concerned about doing the right thing, it can be difficult not to feel guilty on occasion. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
MAKING OVER THE IMAGE
Of the City's Cyclists
An increasingly visible band of chic New Yorkers is whooshing along the green-painted bike lanes that have proliferated in Manhattan, from the Brooklyn Bridge to the Hudson River and from TriBeCa to Harlem, clutching BlackBerrys and clad not in spandex but in fluttery skirts, capes and kitten heels. PAGE E1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A39
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); MAGISTRATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); WRITERS (74%); ARMIES (74%); SHOOTINGS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); TAX LAW (69%); INFANT MORTALITY (68%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); SUICIDE (61%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (60%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%) SYRIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); ITALY (88%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010



844 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Congress Wraps Up Session Early as Midterm Races Loom

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress on Thursday adopted a stopgap spending measure to finance the government through Dec. 3 as lawmakers dashed for an earlier-than-expected exodus from Washington and headed home to focus on the midterm elections.
''We may not agree on much, but I think with rare exception all 100 senators want to get out of here and back to their states,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said Wednesday afternoon. And by 8:30 p.m., most of them were on their way. A half-dozen senators left before the final vote on a motion to adjourn. 
The last day of the brief September session was as notable for what did not get done as for what did. Neither chamber voted on the expiring Bush-era tax cuts as Democrats skipped a politically treacherous debate and Republicans slammed them for it.
In the Senate, the vote on the stopgap spending bill was 69 to 30, with 11 Republicans joining Democrats to approve it. Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, and 29 Republicans were opposed. Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, who is mounting a write-in campaign to keep her job, was absent.
The Senate defeated an amendment proposed by Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, that would have kept the spending measure in force until Feb. 4, preventing Democrats from passing appropriations bills in the lame-duck session set to begin on Nov. 15.
The House vote on the spending resolution, shortly after midnight on Thursday, was 228 to 194. Just one Republican, Anh Cao of Lousiana, joined 227 Democrats in favor; 22 Democrats and 172 Republicans were opposed.
The House on Wednesday gave final approval to an intelligence authorization bill that includes a requirement that the executive branch provide fuller briefings to Congress about covert operations. The bill, which expands the number of lawmakers who would receive such briefings, now goes to President Obama for his signature.
The House also gave final approval to a bill that authorizes NASA programs through 2013 and that begins to chart a new future for the space agency.
The bill approved Wednesday was the Senate version of the NASA measure. It represents something of a compromise between the Obama administration, which wants to promote development of a commercial space industry in which private companies would transport astronauts, and House lawmakers, who wanted NASA to build one government-owned rocket, likely the Ares I , to fly to the International Space Station and another, larger one for longer missions.
The bill as adopted cancels the Ares I program but directs NASA to begin development of a heavy-lift rocket for future missions to the moon, asteroids and perhaps Mars. The bill now goes to Mr. Obama for his signature.
House Democratic leaders muscled through legislation to compensate emergency responders and other people who became ill after being exposed to the toxic particles from the Sept. 11 attack in New York, and a bill to give the Obama administration greater leverage to use trade rules to pressure China on its currency policy.
The House did not act on a child nutrition measure that has been a top priority of the first lady, Michelle Obama.
Both the House and Senate had initially planned to be in session through Oct. 8, but with the tense political atmosphere virtually paralyzing the Capitol and lawmakers eager to focus on their re-election campaigns, party leaders adjourned eight days early.
Up until Wednesday, House Democrats had refused to fully rule out a potential vote on the Bush-era tax cuts, which are due to expire at the end of the year.
President Obama and Democratic Congressional leaders want to make the lower tax rates permanent for couples earning up to $250,000 a year, and individuals earning up to $200,000. But they want the rates to expire for wealthier Americans on income above those amounts.
Republicans and some Democrats are pushing to extend the lower rates at all levels, at least temporarily, because of the weak economy. Permanently extending the tax breaks for the rich would add $700 billion to the deficit over 10 years -- a cost that Mr. Obama and his economic advisers say is unaffordable.
Some Democrats joined with Republicans in opposing the motions to adjourn, saying that Congress should stay in session to deal with the tax issue.
''The Senate should be more concerned about doing what's right for the country and less concerned about campaign season,'' Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, one of two Democrats to oppose adjournment, said in a statement.
''The Senate should have brought the extension of key tax cuts to the floor for up or down votes,'' Mr. Bennet said, adding that he would push for a one-year extension of the lower rates at all income levels and a longer extension for middle class Americans.
Mr. Bennet is in a fierce battle to hold his seat. The other Democrat to oppose adjournment was Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, who is trailing badly in most polls in her own re-election bid.
In the House, 39 Democrats opposed adjournment. The overall vote tally was 210 to 209.
Republicans loudly denounced Democratic leaders for delaying floor action on the expiring tax cuts until after the election.
''Democrats will go campaign to try and save their own jobs while doing nothing to save the jobs of working Americans,'' Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the No. 3 House Republican said at a news conference. ''Congress must not adjourn until we vote up or down to extend all current tax relief to every American.''
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that Democrats were far more eager to leave Washington. ''They have a unified desire to leave town,'' Mr. McConnell said, adding, ''We look forward to the fall election.''
Correction: October 1, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the number of Republican senators who voted in favor of the stopgap spending measure. It was 11, not 19.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); SPACE EXPLORATION (85%); SPACE INDUSTRY (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SPACE STATIONS (66%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (65%); SPACECRAFT (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JIM DEMINT (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MARS (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

 
