

801 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Donates Its Efficiency Model to Help a City Food Bank

BYLINE: By MONA EL-NAGGAR

 BODY:
The Food Bank for New York City is the country's largest anti-hunger charity, feeding about 1.5 million people every year. It leans heavily, as other charities do, on the generosity of businesses, including Target, Bank of America, Delta Air Lines and the New York Yankees. Toyota was also a donor. But then Toyota had a different idea.
Instead of a check, it offered kaizen. 
A Japanese word meaning ''continuous improvement,'' kaizen is a main ingredient in Toyota's business model and a key to its success, the company says. It is an effort to optimize flow and quality by constantly searching for ways to streamline and enhance performance. Put more simply, it is about thinking outside the box and making small changes to generate big results.
Toyota's emphasis on efficiency proved transformative for the Food Bank.
At a soup kitchen in Harlem, Toyota's engineers cut down the wait time for dinner to 18 minutes from as long as 90. At a food pantry on Staten Island, they reduced the time people spent filling their bags to 6 minutes from 11. And at a warehouse in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where volunteers were packing boxes of supplies for victims of Hurricane Sandy, a dose of kaizen cut the time it took to pack one box to 11 seconds from 3 minutes.
Toyota has ''revolutionized the way we serve our community,'' said Margarette Purvis, the chief executive and president of the Food Bank.
But Toyota's initial offer to the charity in 2011 was met with apprehension.
''They make cars; I run a kitchen,'' said Daryl Foriest, director of distribution at the Food Bank's pantry and soup kitchen in Harlem. ''This won't work.''
When Toyota insisted it would, Mr. Foriest presented the company with a challenge.
''The line of people waiting to eat is too long,'' Mr. Foriest said. ''Make the line shorter.''
Toyota's engineers went to work. The kitchen, which can seat 50 people, typically opened for dinner at 4 p.m., and when all the chairs were filled, a line would form outside. Mr. Foriest would wait for enough space to open up to allow 10 people in. The average wait time could be up to an hour and a half.
Toyota made three changes. They eliminated the 10-at-a-time system, allowing diners to flow in one by one as soon as a chair was free. Next, a waiting area was set up inside where people lined up closer to where they would pick up food trays. Finally, an employee was assigned the sole duty of spotting empty seats so they could be filled quickly. The average wait time dropped to 18 minutes and more people were fed.
The unusual partnership between Toyota and the Food Bank, which one Food Bank coordinator compared to a cultural exchange program, highlights a different way for-profit businesses can help their communities, experts said.
''It's a form of corporate philanthropy but instead of giving money, they're sharing expertise,'' said David J. Vogel, a professor and an expert in corporate social responsibility at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It's quite new.''
And many nonprofit organizations, facing tighter budgets as financing from federal and local governments diminishes, are having to make smarter business decisions.
''Nonprofit organizations are taking on what happens in the for-profit world because they will run better,'' said Ronald P. Hill, a professor of marketing and business law at Villanova University.
In the early 1990s, Toyota limited sharing its expertise to its auto parts suppliers. But as the Toyota Production System Support Center, the company's headquarters of efficiency, came to recognize broader interest in the Toyota model, the company offered consulting-style services to nonautomotive manufacturers and nonprofit organizations. Today, the center supports about 40 organizations, half of which are small to midsize manufacturers that pay a small fee. The rest are nonprofits, like the Food Bank, that get the services free.
''There's a lot of opportunities in a variety of industries to improve and become more competitive by applying the Toyota production system,'' said Jamie Bonini, the support center's general manager.
The lessons provided by Toyota come at a critical time for the Food Bank as it faces increasing demand in a weak economy.
''From banks to restaurants to airlines, people give money and time and we're grateful,'' Ms. Purvis said. ''But, it's very rare for people to come and say, 'You know what, this is the model that made our company great and we will share it with a charity with the hope that it will provide for the neediest people in your city.' ''
At the Project Hospitality food pantry on Staten Island, which is part of the Food Bank network, Toyota engineers tried to expedite the pickup process. They drew a layout identifying spots where there were slowdowns. They reorganized the shelves by food groups and used colored tape to mark the grain, vegetable, fruit and protein sections. The time clients spent in the pantry was reduced nearly by half.
Similarly, the Food Bank called on Toyota engineers to help one of its affiliated charities, Metro World Child, keep up with demand in the Far Rockaways after Hurricane Sandy.
Lisa Richardson, an engineer with a background in manufacturing, watched as volunteers walked around a warehouse in Brooklyn and scrambled to pack boxes of food. So she created an assembly line and volunteers dropped food items into boxes as they moved across a conveyor belt. The average time to pack one box shrank to 11 seconds from 3 minutes.
Still not satisfied, Ms. Richardson changed the size of the boxes.
''There was a lot of empty space in the box and they were shipping that air out in the truck,'' Ms. Richardson said. The Food Bank was using standard boxes of 12 by 12 by 12 inches. By changing the size to 16 by 8 by 8, workers can pack each box more tightly and more boxes can go out in each truck
Next up, Ms. Purvis says, is a plan ''to kaizen'' the Food Bank's 90,000-square-foot warehouse in the Bronx, where Toyota will try to optimize use of the space and figure out delivery routes, among other tasks.
''I never thought that what we needed were a bunch of engineers,'' Ms. Purvis said. ''In our world food is king, but we didn't know that the queen would be kaizen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toyota brought kaizen, Japanese for ''continuous improvement,'' to the Food Bank for New York. A supervisor, Daryl Foriest, above, was initially skeptical, but has seen change. Toyota is also trying to streamline boxing at a food warehouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (95%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BASEBALL (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (51%); HURRICANES (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD BANK FOR NEW YORK CITY (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



802 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Light in the Heat of Energy Investing

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Energy independence. Oil exports. Fracking. Electric cars. Solar power. And as of last week: the heat dome. These are phrases that are bandied about, sometimes dividing people along political lines. But all mean one thing: this is a boom time for the United States energy sector, from pulling it out of the ground to moving it around the country to finding ways to use less of it.
It took last week's heat dome, with the searing heat outside and that equally uncomfortable arctic blast when you walked inside, to get me thinking about energy -- and not just how much of it I was consuming. I started wondering about the investment opportunities and the associated risks around the boom in oil and gas production and the push for alternative sources of energy. So many people seemed so sure that investing in energy was the way to go, and naturally that spooked me. 
The United States is set to become the world's leading producer of natural gas in 2015 and oil in 2017, according to the International Energy Agency, and there is money to be made in getting both out of the ground, to the coasts and on ships. Some energy companies and new technologies will surely be wildly successful, while others that seem promising will no doubt fail. But as people rush to invest in energy, how should they think about what they are doing?
''The energy renaissance is very similar to the Internet renaissance that started to develop in 1985,'' said Anton Bayer, chief executive of Up Capital Management. ''In order to find the next Apple, you need to find the next industry. Then you need to drill down to find where the innovation is.''
I thought that was an apt way of describing this moment. Looking back, it's easy to talk about what a great investment Apple has been, but as a youngster in the early 1980s my bet would have been on the Commodore 64, with its eight-tracklike game cartridges, that I had in my bedroom.
What do investors need to keep in mind when they are looking for the Apple of energy, not the Commodore?
FINDING ENERGY The technology that has allowed horizontal drilling -- as opposed to drilling straight down -- has radically changed how oil and natural gas are extracted. Yet drilling has always been boom and bust; five years ago, the price of natural gas was over $13 per million British thermal units before beginning a steady fall to its low of less than $2 per million B.T.U. in April 2012.
There are less speculative ways to benefit than investing in the exploration and production boom. Jason T. O'Connell, director of equity research at Boston Private Bank & Trust, said he had been talking to clients about companies like Schlumberger, Cameron International and Dril-Quip that make the equipment to reach the oil.
''It's become a lot harder to get this stuff out of the ground or from under the sea,'' he said. ''There is an increasing capital intensity that's a little more insulated from the price of oil.''
He said he was also interested in companies that work in areas related to drilling, like those that look to reduce the environmental impact of newer types of drilling, including hydraulic fracturing, which pumps high-pressured fluids into rock to increase a well's production. Fracking has helped increase the productivity of wells, but it has drawn concern about what the process does to drinking water and the areas around wells.
He said he liked companies like Waste Connections and Clean Harbors that could benefit from energy companies paying them to prevent damage and also to clean up if damage occurs.
Christopher Grisanti, co-founder of Grisanti Capital Management, said he believed that companies that refine oil, like Valero Energy, Marathon Petroleum, HollyFrontier and Western Refining, are going to do well, even though the sector has struggled this year.
''In the past, refiners have needed a robust economy to make strong profits, but because of the new export market brought about by the American oil renaissance, refiners are making a lot of money right now, in a mediocre economy,'' he wrote. ''As the U.S. economy strengthens, the refining industry should enter a sweet spot of profitability.''
Yet Matthew Rubin, director of investment strategy at Neuberger Berman, said he had urged clients to look at companies with track records, and warned about those that have rushed to make money in the Bakken shale around North Dakota.
''The evolution of wealth there is being talked about as the new Saudi Arabia,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''Where the dangers and pitfalls exist is looking at companies that are much more speculative in nature, that don't have the technology to do the fracking.''
MOVING ENERGY Once the oil or natural gas is out of the ground, it has to go somewhere.
When natural gas prices hit bottom last year, the rush to find even more of it slowed. But there is still money to be made moving it from the center of the country to where it is needed. This is not just in the United States, where the price has risen to nearly $4 per million B.T.U.'s., but also in countries like Japan, where the price is four times as high. The challenge is getting the gas there.
''Our national policy had been shipping in, so all the refineries are on the coastline,'' Mr. Bayer said. ''The Canadian rail disaster and battles over pipelines are indicative of the strains to get oil and gas within the country.''
He said he favored investing in transportation, largely through master limited partnerships that own pipelines. Such companies, known as M.L.P.'s, are popular and have experienced a run-up in value. But he said that they were also the main way for average investors to invest in transporting oil and gas.
If predictions are accurate, there will be more pipelines. ''A tremendous amount of infrastructure needs to be built,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''We're finding more energy, but how do you move it from one place to another?''
He said a benefit of investing in pipelines was that they function like toll roads, moving oil and natural gas around the country, and are less dependent on the price of the commodity itself.
Not everyone is bullish on M.L.P.'s. Mr. O'Connell said clients who invested in them to get higher yield might not understand what they were getting into if the sector went through a soft patch. ''We tend to tread lightly on taking large positions in investments that pay a nice dividend,'' he said. ''We're more focused on dividend growth than dividend yield.''
SPECULATIVE ENERGY What surprised me was that few of the analysts I spoke with were investing heavily in the types of alterative energy -- solar, wind, electric-powered cars -- that are promoted as the future of energy. One reason for this was a fear that if political support for these industries shifted, the companies themselves could falter.
''Solar, wind, clean coal -- they're more popular from a political perspective,'' said Thorne Perkin, managing director of Papamarkou Wellner Asset Management, which recently hosted a symposium on American energy independence. ''The political landscape is very important. An administration can be very helpful or very hurtful in pushing these industries along. There are so many unknowns.''
Mr. Bayer said he believed that natural gas had the potential to become a de facto alternative energy and had been talking to clients about investing in companies that can bring it to consumers. One is Westport Innovations, which makes engines fueled by natural gas, including those in Ford automobiles.
But for all of his excitement, he said he advised clients not to forget that this boom might not happen as planned. ''The investor needs to be cognizant that this is a lot of risk and a lot of volatility,'' he said. ''The Internet made progress in the '70s, but it wasn't until the '80s when it really started to grow. With the energy sector, it's like '82 or '83 with the Internet.'' Or right when the Commodore 64 was the computer to own.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on July 27 with the Wealth Matters column, about identifying good investments in energy, misidentified the location of the Exxon Mobil liquefied natural gas terminal shown. It is in Texas, not Louisiana, though the photograph of it was taken from Louisiana soil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Investments in the alternative energy sector bear the risk of falling political support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 An Exxon Mobil liquefied natural gas terminal in Louisiana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); SOLAR ENERGY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EQUITY RESEARCH (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%)

COMPANY: BOSTON PRIVATE BANK & TRUST CO (60%); CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORP (50%); DRIL-QUIP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: CAM (NYSE) (50%); DRQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS333911 PUMP & PUMPING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013



803 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, July 28

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: As the Obama administration makes a push to revive the economy, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew joins several programs this Sunday to talk about its approach. 

 BODY:
After President Obama sharpened his focus on the economy last week, the treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, will appear on the Sunday shows on ABC, CNN, Fox and NBC to discuss the administration's latest approach with Congressional fights looming over government spending and the debt ceiling. 
Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, will join Mr. Lew on "Fox News Sunday" to talk about how some Republicans are threatening to shut down the government if Democrats do not withhold financing for the president's health care law.
Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, will be on CBS's "Face the Nation" and NBC's "Meet the Press," sharing his thoughts on the importance of the National Security Agency's data collection programs to protecting the United States. The House narrowly defeated legislation Wednesday that would have limited the N.S.A.'s surveillance efforts. CBS will also feature Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, who is a co-sponsor of a similar bill in the Senate.
Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, has long shared Mr. Udall's concerns about government surveillance. He will join C-Span's "Newsmakers" to talk about the debate over the N.S.A. on Capitol Hill.
With new revelations last week about Anthony Weiner, Christine C. Quinn, his opponent in the New York City mayoral race, will appear on NBC.
Judy Smith, the crisis management expert who was the inspiration for "Scandal," the ABC series, will join ABC's "This Week" to talk about how - and whether - Mr. Weiner should proceed with his campaign.
Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, and Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, will also appear on ABC to talk about the N.S.A.
In addition to Mr. Lew, CNN's "State of the Union" will feature an interview with Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, on the fate of Edward J. Snowden.
Also on CNN: Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, discussing immigration and whether he plans to run for president in 2016.
Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, will talk about immigration on Telemundo's "Enfoque," which goes on the air at noon Eastern.
Discussing immigration reform, Al Cardenas, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, and Jorge Plasencia, chairman of the board of directors of the National Council of La Raza, will be on Univision's "Al Punto," which airs at 10 a.m. Eastern.
Tom Vilsack, the secretary of agriculture, will join Bloomberg's "Capitol Gains" at noon Eastern to talk about genetically modified wheat.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, appeared on Bloomberg's "Political Capital" on Friday. Repeats of the program will be shown throughout the weekend.

        
New Polls Are Bad News for Obama, and Worse for Congress
        
Report Says Congress Is More Diverse and More Divided
        
Q. and A.: Is Congress Broken?
        
The Early Word: Reinforcements
        
Food Stamp Program Faces Deeper Cuts Under House Farm Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%); MAYORS (64%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (50%) House of Representatives; Senate; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (94%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (72%); MARK UDALL (72%); TOM VILSACK (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); MIKE ROGERS (57%); PETER T KING (57%); BOB GOODLATTE (57%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); MIKE LEE (57%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (57%); RON WYDEN (57%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013



804 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1919 words

HEADLINE: Mostly Mozart, Mostly Improved

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
A dozen years ago the Mostly Mozart Festival epitomized much of what was wrong with the tradition-bound ways of classical music.
Certainly, a powerhouse institution like Lincoln Center, in America's cultural capital, could come up with something fresher each summer than a calcified festival offering listlessly played performances of boring programs under the banner of Mozart.
In 2002, the musicians of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra called a strike over job security. Lincoln Center immediately canceled all 20 concerts the ensemble was scheduled to perform. The institution seemed poised to jettison the orchestra and turn future festivals over to the visiting ensembles that had been outplaying the hometown band for years. 
Today, however, Mostly Mozart, which opens on Tuesday with a concert by the festival orchestra at Avery Fisher Hall, is thriving. Jane Moss is its boastful artistic director. She and the dynamic French conductor Louis Langrée, the festival's music director since late 2002, who is credited with rejuvenating the orchestra, have found the right balance between honoring the Mozart brand and implementing innovative initiatives. Back in the dull days, who could have imagined that Mostly Mozart would have the members of the brilliant International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE, for short) as risk-taking artists in residence? This once-hopeless festival has become an unlikely model of change. Of course, the issues facing America's full-time symphony orchestras are more complex than what this four-week summer festival has had to cope with. Still, there are things to be learned from Mostly Mozart by institutions everywhere.
I should not overstate the boldness of the festival, which remains a big-institution series built around a tried-and-true namesake. This year, the offerings include a major celebration of Beethoven, which is not exactly daring.
Still, once Mr. Langrée was brought in, the festival directors embraced a set of forward-looking common-sense principles that enabled them to inject new purpose into the festival without rejecting its identity. It's important to put the festival in the larger context of the challenges facing classical music. The field is facing enormous problems, not just external economic pressures and seemingly daily news reports about the bankruptcy of opera companies and symphonies, but also internal habits that keep institutions clinging to outmoded ways of presenting the art form.
Many smart commentators argue that only complete reinvention will avert looming crises. Yet the success of Mostly Mozart in recent years shows that significant transformation is possible without going all radical.
In June, the flutist Claire Chase, a co-founder of ICE, gave the convocation address to a class of graduating students from Northwestern University's Bienen School of Music. She argued that the challenges classical music is grappling with are actually empowering a new generation to fresh modes of creativity, including ICE, which she described as a ''new model for a new century: a contemporary, innovative, modular, artist-driven organization that transforms ideas into new music and new music into new ideas.''
This is all true and immensely exciting. Still, the groundswell of entrepreneurial energy Ms. Chase celebrates is emanating up from the ranks of new young musicians. It is harder for the top-down, established institutions to embrace the new innovative ethos.
Mostly Mozart shows that it can be done. It did not invent any of the principles that pulled them out of stagnation. They simply embraced them, beginning with:
Artistic Leadership Is Everything
No institution or ensemble will thrive in these new times without visionary musicians at the helm. Mr. Langrée arrived on the job with enhanced authority to make personnel changes. He found the players, over all, experienced and skilled. They were just demoralized. So he was able to infuse energy into the ensemble without making that many changes to the roster, in part by enlivening the programming and mixing diverse works and contemporary music into the offerings.
This brings up another obvious principle that the festival adopted:
New Music Fosters New Vitality
If classical music is going to be a living, breathing art form, then living, breathing composers, and young musicians who are excited about those composers, have to be a full part of any enterprise, even when Mozart is the brand name of a festival. When Mr. Langrée was recruited, he was primarily known for his outstanding work in the early music movement, a credential that made him a good fit.
To his credit, he has fully supported Ms. Moss's efforts to make living composers and new-music ensembles essential to the series. This summer the festival orchestra is performing eight programs, most of them two times each. ICE is presenting seven programs of its own, including the New York premiere of ''the whisper opera,'' a recent work by David Lang, a Pulitzer winner. This chamber opera for soprano and four instruments is described as exploring the tension between what we hide and what we reveal. The ICE programs take place in the intimate Clark Studio Theater, and ticket availability for the four performances of Mr. Lang's work is already, alas, limited.
Still, there is an upside to putting on concerts in this space, which brings up another principle of programming:
Smaller Is Better
I have come to believe that potential new audiences for classical music are put off because too many concert and recital halls, let alone opera houses, are too big. This is a particular impediment to chamber music, which, as the genre's name implies, is music meant for a small space. In that sense, the Clark Studio is an exciting place to hear close-up performances of contemporary works.
One of the most successful manifestations of the smaller-is-better principle in recent years has been A Little Night Music, Mostly Mozart's series of late-night (starting at 10) performances in the Kaplan Penthouse. The programs last about an hour. The audience of about 230 is seated at small, round cocktail tables. There is free wine, and nightclub lighting. Tickets go fast for these events.
There is something about the cozy setting, the late hour and the informality that completely hooks listeners. Last summer, the adventurous and excellent Israeli pianist David Greilsammer enthralled an audience at the penthouse with a program that juxtaposed Baroque works, two pensive and episodic Mozart scores and several audacious contemporary pieces, played without pause.
The series this summer, with six programs, kicks off on Wednesday night with the probing and elegant French pianist Jean-Efflam Bavouzet playing Book II of Debussy's Preludes. Earlier that evening he will be the soloist with the Mostly Mozart orchestra in Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto at Avery Fisher Hall. So you can attend the orchestra concert, and then trail Mr. Bavouzet across the plaza to the penthouse for wine and Debussy.
The whole field of classical music has to think long and hard about this smaller-is-better business. Lincoln Center can cover the expense of programs for a couple of hundred people. But for the small performance spaces and clubs that have been springing up in New York, like Le Poisson Rouge in Greenwich Village, which champions contemporary music, the finances are difficult.
The way around it is that musicians who perform at Le Poisson Rouge usually earn only a portion of what the house takes in, though the exposure to new, eager, younger audiences is invaluable to their careers. We have to find ways to keep these ventures going because it is thrilling to see audiences so palpably excited to be hearing music in intimate settings.
Give Opportunities to Emerging Artists
Another operating principle of Mostly Mozart since Ms. Moss took charge has involved making a conscious effort to attract and present young talent, especially conductors. In 2008, the French conductor Lionel Bringuier, then 21, made an impressive New York debut conducting the Mostly Mozart orchestra. This spring, he conducted the New York Philharmonic splendidly. He is now heading to the Tonhalle-Orchestra in Zurich.
And Pablo Heras-Casado, 35, the thinking person's idea of a hotshot young conductor, now the exciting principal conductor of the Orchestra of St. Luke's, led an impressive program with the Mostly Mozart orchestra in 2010. This coming season, the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic are catching up with this fast-rising artist: Mr. Heras-Casado will make debuts with both institutions.
One problem with the Philharmonic under Kurt Masur was its slowness in engaging young conductors. When it came time to search for Mr. Masur's replacement, many exciting candidates among the new generation either had not yet made their Philharmonic debuts or had not conducted the orchestra enough for their potential to be assessed. So we wound up with another imposing maestro in his 70s: Lorin Maazel.
Encircle the Orchestra
When Lincoln Center finally proceeds with the planned renovation of Avery Fisher Hall (though the plans seem as vague as ever), the institution will have Mostly Mozart to thank for coming up with the likely template for a new design.
In 2005, to draw audiences into the performances and compensate for the hall's acoustics, which many people find dull, the festival extended the stage with a platform over the first 11 rows of seats. Two sections of bleachers were set up to the right and left sides of the orchestra. Many great symphonic halls in the world, like the Philharmonie in Berlin and Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, are designed so that the orchestra is nearly surrounded by the audience. The makeshift thrust stage for Mostly Mozart concerts is an attempt to create a similar spatial and sonic environment.
The resulting acoustics, while not a miraculous improvement, are certainly more vibrant. Audiences seem to love being so close to the players. The festival is essentially doing a test-run of a new design for the hall.
And one more thing...
Take Chances
In recent years, Mostly Mozart has taken a chance by mounting staged concert operas. Two summers ago, the exciting Budapest Festival Orchestra, under its formidable conductor Ivan Fischer, presented a stunningly innovative staged concert performance of ''Don Giovanni,'' directed by Mr. Fischer. A roster of 16 young actors, doubling as the chorus, employed body formations to suggest the scenery, linking hands and limbs to become garden groves, stone walls and the lapping flames that subsume Giovanni into eternal damnation. I have not seen many full, fancy productions of the work in opera houses that match the creativity of this one.
If Mostly Mozart has not been radically transformed, it has certainly been enlivened, thanks to some entrepreneurial thinking, even if the changes were driven in part by a sense of desperation a decade ago.
Mozart was something of an entrepreneur. Never a favorite with the establishment in his day, he was a pioneer in the business of concocting opera projects and putting on concerts of his own works. He would be thrilled to see what's going on at Lincoln Center under his name, and not just because Mr. Fischer and the Budapest Festival Orchestra are returning this summer with a performance of ''Le Nozze di Figaro.''
I can imagine Mozart happily sipping wine at the Kaplan Penthouse while hearing a Bach partita for solo violin or being shaken and fascinated by a Thomas Adès string quartet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The French conductor Louis Langrée, Mostly Mozart Festival's music director since 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Louis Langrée, top, leading the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra last year
the Israeli pianist David Greilsammer, above, at Kaplan Penthouse last summer
and Sunhae Im with Riccardo Novaro in a staged version of ''Don Giovanni'' for the festival in 2011
it was directed by Ivan Fischer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Lionel Bringuier, left, made his festival debut in 2008, at age 21
Pablo Heras-Casado, 35, above, led a program with the festival orchestra in 2010. Jean-Efflam Bavouzet, right, on Wednesday will open A Little Night Music, Mostly Mozart's late-night concerts at Kaplan Penthouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD TERMINE) (AR7) . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



805 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AUCTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: A Deco Confection, Flamboyant and French

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
A 1935 Avions Voisin C25 Aérodyne with flamboyant coachwork and a fascinating past will go across the auction block on Aug. 18 at a Gooding & Company sale in Pebble Beach, Calif.
The car, chassis No. 50023, had been acquired in 1963 by Henry Browne de Kilmaine, a pioneering car collector who helped start the Circuit de la Sarthe museum at the track where the 24 Hours of Le Mans is held. The C25, then black with a tan interior, was displayed at the museum in 1963-2008, according to Gooding.
''But before that, we really don't know where the car was,'' David Gooding, the auction house's principal, said in an interview on Monday. ''Mr. de Kilmaine, however, suggested he had information the car had originally been displayed by Voisin at the 1934 Paris auto show.'' 
This much, however, is certain: since the museum years it has undergone a makeover as complete as if it were entering a witness protection program.
The C25's flashy coachwork, which included a novel retractable roof with four airliner-style portholes, was inspired by Gabriel Voisin's background in aviation; he spent the early part of his career designing and building some of the world's first airplanes.
If this C25 is indeed the Paris car -- and there seems to be no one claiming it is not -- it at some point lost the two-tone paint scheme seen in period photographs. And incredibly, it survived World War II, when many luxury cars vanished -- stolen, destroyed, vandalized or cannibalized.
''We have known of instances where cars were buried, hidden behind false walls, even disassembled and smuggled away in pieces,'' Mr. Gooding said. ''We have no idea how this car survived, or in whose possession it was during all of those years.''
But how did it come to be painted black? ''We hope when we put these cars out there that we will hear from people who might know additional information and be able to help us fill in some of the blanks,'' Mr. Gooding said. ''It has happened before.''
After de Kilmaine died in 2008, his collection was sold off and the black Voisin ended up in England, according to the Le Mans museum. The new owner ordered a full restoration. It was painted midnight blue and gray, with a rococo blue interior using fabric from the mill that originally supplied Voisin. Mr. Gooding said the new motif was inspired by the Paris show car.
It now looks very much like the C25 that won Best of Show in 2011 at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Élégance. That car is owned by Peter Mullin, a noted collector of French cars.
''I am not personally familiar with this car, but I knew of its existence,'' Mr. Mullin said in an e-mail. ''These almost never come up for sale.''
Locating a Voisin like this is like finding a lost Rembrandt, he offered.
Mr. Mullin is credited in recent years with raising consciousness and appreciation within the collector car fraternity for not only forgotten Voisins, but also for other French Art Deco designs, including those from Delahaye and Talbot-Lago. His collection includes 16 other Voisin automobiles.
Voisin's recognition as a featured marque at Pebble Beach in 2006 also helped to bring attention to the marque -- and increased the prices they brought. Before 2006, no Voisin had ever sold for more than $1 million, Mr. Mullin told The Los Angeles Times. The C25 in his collection might be worth $5 million or more today, he estimated.
Gooding has placed a presale estimate of $2 million to $3 million on No. 50023.
The 1934 Paris show was a showcase for other groundbreaking French offerings, including the Citroën Traction Avant and the Renault Aeroprofil.
Voisin was known for his exotic creations, but the C25 Aérodyne was the topper; it suggested the limitless artistic possibilities of automotive design, even though the extreme costs associated with bringing it to life probably helped to doom the company.
By 1934, the handwriting was really already on the wall for Voisin's somewhat quixotic dream of designing the world's most perfect automobile. Chronically underfinanced -- a condition worsened by the Depression -- Gabriel Voisin had already let go many of his top people. He was unable to upgrade his smoky 6-cylinder sleeve-valve engines.
But there was no scrimping on the design.
Voisin's cars employed construction methods, and lightweight materials like aluminum and magnesium, developed for use in aviation. The company used airplane-style fender struts to reduce body flex, aerodynamic wheel covers and a fastback profile with an integrated trunk.
Evolved from the C24, the new Voisin was brimming with revolutionary curiosities -- a retracting sunroof, fold-down rear seats, a shortwave radio and even rudimentary turn signals.
According to Gooding, the C25's price of 88,000 francs -- as compared with 70,000 francs for a Bugatti Type 57 -- marked the C25 as a car intended for an elite clientele. Movie stars, politicians, artists and architects ordered them. In total, just 28 examples were built in 1934-37, of which no more than eight were fashioned with the extreme Aérodyne coachwork.
That wasn't enough production to sustain the company. Voisin tried to soldier on, despite the economic headwinds of the times.
Then, Voisin noted in his autobiography, ''a certain Hitler unleashed the regrettable chain of events that French people are all too familiar with.''
And so, Avions Voisin passed into history; decades would pass until the survivors would be rediscovered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VIEWPOINT: The Voisin C25 Aérodyne is distinguished by roof portholes. Left, upholstery inspired by a 1934 show car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATHIEU HEURTAULT/GOODING & COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); VANDALISM (66%); AIRLINES (66%); SMUGGLING (63%); WITNESSES (52%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) FRANCE (87%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



806 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senators See an Upside In a Problematic Issue: Abortion

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It reads like a who's who of the next generation of Republican Party leaders: Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Rob Portman.
But what is bringing all these marquee political names together is not the Iowa State Fair or a Tea Party rally on the National Mall. Rather, they are all talking discreetly about how to advance a bill in the Senate to ban abortion at 20 weeks after fertilization.
A similar ban passed the House last month, and Senate Democrats quickly pronounced it doomed to fail in their chamber. It is almost certain to be defeated there, and even if it were not, President Obama would veto it. But backers of the ban are eager to bring to the floor of the Senate the same impassioned debate over abortion that has been taking place in state legislatures around the country.
Plans under discussion among the staff members of a handful of Republican senators and anti-abortion groups would involve bringing the measure up for a vote, probably as part of debate over a spending measure, sometime after Congress returns from its August recess. Because of the Senate's porous rules for introducing amendments, people on both sides of the issue say they believe a vote is more than likely if the legislation comes together. 
''I think there's significant support across the country for the idea that after 20 weeks, abortion should be significantly limited,'' said Mr. Rubio, who has taken a leading role in trying to generate support for the bill. ''Irrespective of how people may feel about the issue,'' he added, ''we're talking about five months into a pregnancy. People certainly feel there should be significant restrictions on that.''
Republicans are hardly unanimous about the wisdom of entangling themselves in a national battle over abortion rights; many believe that the party should remain focused on addressing economic issues and fighting Mr. Obama's health care overhaul.
''I'm focused on energy, the economy and what's happening with the president's health care law,'' said Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, a member of the Republican leadership. Asked whether he thought abortion was a distraction for his party, he stuck to a popular Republican refrain: ''I'm completely focused on jobs, the economy, the health care law.''
Democrats, meanwhile, are wary of the damage that a ''no'' vote on second-trimester abortion restrictions could inflict on some of their more vulnerable senators up for re-election in 2014, particularly in Arkansas, Louisiana and North Carolina, where legislatures have recently imposed strict limits. On Friday, the governor of North Carolina said he would sign into law new regulations on abortion clinics.
''Look, I've taken a lot of tough votes,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, who added that she doubted she could support a ban at 20 weeks. ''That's what I'm here for, to take votes. And if we have to take it, we take it.''
The success of new limits on when, how and where abortions can be done has invigorated the Republican base like few other issues this year. Because of such intensity, anti-abortion groups say they have found interest among the newer generation of Republican senators, especially those seeking to build up, or in some cases repair, their standing with conservative voters.
Some see even broader appeal. Though the issue of reproductive rights has been problematic for Republicans -- who have been embarrassed by comments like those of Todd Akin, the Indiana Senate candidate who said that women's bodies blocked pregnancy in cases of rape -- those supporting 20-week bans say the dynamics of this debate are less alienating to swing voters than fights over contraception.
And some conservatives see this as the only winning social issue they have left in their political arsenal. Unlike same-sex marriage, which has steadily gained support, recent polls have shown that the public believes that abortions later in pregnancy should be restricted. A Washington Post-ABC News poll last week found that 56 percent of Americans said they would prefer to impose limits on abortions after 20 weeks rather than the 24-week standard established by the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade.
Anti-abortion activists said that after the recently approved House measure and success in states like Texas, which approved a 20-week ban this month, they saw an opportunity they could not pass up.
''We really thought it was a moment to be very ambitious,'' said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, one of the groups pushing for the Senate to take up the 20-week ban.
Abortion rights groups say the real goal of these laws, all of which challenge Supreme Court precedent, is to get another case before the court in the hopes that the justices will further restrict abortion rights. ''These bills are not happenstance,'' said Donna Crane, policy director of Naral Pro-Choice America. ''These bills are a calculated, cold strategy.''
Mr. Cruz of Texas, for his part, is trying to build a larger following among Republicans beyond his home state. He visited Iowa last weekend to meet with evangelical pastors and other members of the state's conservative establishment. Joining him was Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who has also expressed interest in signing onto a 20-week bill, according to Ms. Dannenfelser and a spokeswoman for the senator.
Mr. Rubio of Florida, who has been discussing for months how to introduce this issue into the Senate, is also eager to raise his national profile. But he must first overcome some of the doubts conservatives have about him for his pivotal role in helping the Senate pass an immigration bill with a provision to eventually grant citizenship to immigrants here illegally.
Mr. Portman of Ohio, who was on Mitt Romney's short list to become the Republican vice-presidential nominee last year and who has told his colleagues that he would like to be deeply involved in the 20-week legislation, is trying to rebuild conservative support that he lost back home in March after he spoke out in favor of same-sex marriage. (One Republican who saw internal poll numbers after Mr. Portman's announcement said the senator's unfavorable ratings jumped by double digits and were especially high in the southern part of Ohio, where his core support is.)
Drafting a bill, however, will require conservatives to resolve a fundamental disagreement: how to find constitutional justification for a nationwide ban despite their reservations about giving the government broad regulatory powers.
This has been especially challenging for Senator Mike Lee of Utah, one of the Senate's leading anti-abortion voices. He strongly opposes a bill that uses as its legal rationale the commerce clause of the Constitution, which many conservatives consider a violation of their principles.
Some in the Republican leadership express similar doubts, including Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 leader. He said he supported the 20-week ban that passed in his home state this month, but added: ''I think that this can adequately be taken care of at the state level. And so there may not be a need for the federal government to get involved.''
Then there is the issue of how new abortion regulations might be perceived among women. So far, none of the four Republican women in the Senate have stepped forward to get involved.
Senator Deb Fischer of Nebraska, who has a solidly anti-abortion voting record, said, ''I'm focused on a lot of other issues now.''
Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said, ''It's not something that is really on my priority list.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, right, whose state banned abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy, is seeking a similar Senate vote.
Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who lost conservative backers when he supported same-sex marriage, is also a proponent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, whose work on the immigration bill hurt him with conservatives, favors the abortion limit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (61%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (59%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (92%); MARCO RUBIO (89%); ROB PORTMAN (88%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



807 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ALBUM; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: The Bustle and the Blur

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
All it takes is two seconds to see the city. With a little luck and one click, Martin Roemers has his story.
Amid the chaos of Times Square, full of tourists and city buses and the blaring billboards, Mr. Roemers, 50, glimpsed a still, stunning moment one April afternoon. People in bright orange prison jumpsuits were gathered on the steps by the TKTS booth for a protest of Guantánamo Bay. They wore black hoods. 
Mr. Roemers, who is from the Netherlands, won a World Press Photo Award in 2011 for his series ''Metropolis,'' chronicling daily life in the world's megacities, or urban areas with populations greater than 10 million. He was not expecting a protest. Two minutes later, the police cleared the scene.
By then, he knew he had caught an indelible image of New York and what drives it: art, economy, politics.
''I'm waiting for the right moment,'' Mr. Roemers said. ''Everything has to fall in the right place. I know where the image starts, I follow interesting people, watch the movement of the traffic, of the people, and when it all comes together, you press the button.''
Mr. Roemers and a local assistant spend a week scouting and shooting locations. Although he went to the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn, the other image he selected of New York was also from Manhattan: peering down from the Roosevelt Island tram station on Second Avenue toward traffic on the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge.
''I was a little hesitant to go to Times Square because it has been photographed so much,'' Mr. Roemers said. ''On the other hand, it was so Metropolis, I just couldn't leave it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martin Roemers, a Dutch photographer, chose two images to represent New York for his ''Metropolis'' series: above, a Guantánamo Bay protest within Times Square in April, and left, a moment on the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANASTASIA PHOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



808 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate Eclipse

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Last week we learned more about what Anthony D. Weiner was doing after he resigned from Congress, and despite his new fatherhood he wasn't spending all his time debating sleep training. Instead, Mr. Weiner was bringing shame to the world of epistolary eroticism while apparently never missing a cycle of laundry. On Wednesday, People magazine released outtakes from its interview last year with Huma Abedin, in which she claimed that she was the envy of her friends because she never had to wash a piece of clothing. ''I have not been to our dry cleaner,'' she said, leaving us to wonder whether Mr. Weiner wasn't such a literalist that he would pursue stain removal as a means of moral absolution.
The latest revelations about the former congressman's protracted habit of lurid text and visual messaging eclipse the real reasons that he is such a problematic candidate: his record in the House, where in nearly 13 years he sponsored and wrote only one bill he steered to enactment -- a measure advocated by a big donor to his campaigns. 
The accompanying problem is that the news has made it seem prudishly sanctimonious to discuss the mayoral race beyond Mr. Weiner's comical perversions and arrogant evasions. Who, in the middle of a renewed scandal brought to us by a source called The Dirty, wants to be the one demanding a return to the sobering and relevant, the one to insist to people on their third round of margaritas that now is the time to talk about juice cleansing?
Among the candidates, this role has been assumed most vocally by Bill de Blasio, as a matter of both principle and personal gain. During Mr. Weiner's bizarre news conference on Tuesday addressing the subject of his unstoppable camera, Mr. de Blasio delivered one of his own, asking Mr. Weiner to withdraw from the race and cease distracting us.
At a candidates' forum on AIDS after these events, Mr. de Blasio again indicated what an impressive command he had of the issues, immediately homing in on a matter of vital importance to AIDS activists in recent years but largely unknown to average New Yorkers: the fight for legislation that would cap rents for poor residents with AIDS at 30 percent of their monthly income. A fact sheet handed out by the Gay Men's Health Crisis at the forum indicated that Mr. Weiner supported the measure, but in typically self-aggrandizing fashion, he got going, telling the audience about a gay pride parade he once attended on Staten Island ''when people said there were no queers'' living there.
Practiced political observers in the city generally seem to agree that Mr. de Blasio is the most intelligent and informed candidate in the field -- shrewd, capable, but unlikely to win. One reason offered is that he is a white, non-Jewish male in a city where the predominant voting blocs are blacks, Jews and women.
The longtime political consultant George Arzt, who handled Mr. de Blasio's successful race for public advocate but is unaffiliated with any mayoral campaign, argued that Mr. de Blasio had ''made no rationale for his candidacy.'' But his message about the corrosive forces of economic and social inequality has been the clearest and most consistent of any offered by a candidate so far, and his proposals to deal with it, the most substantive.
Is the message untenably progressive? This is one line of thinking, and a belief that ignores the extent to which New York is not Orange County, Calif., which is to say it is a city densely populated with affluent liberals who go to dinner parties and denounce the widening gulf between rich and poor. There are posters endorsing Mr. de Blasio in the windows of town houses in Brooklyn Heights that cost more than $3 million.
A key element in Mr. de Blasio's platform is an expanded education budget and the implementation of true universal prekindergarten paid for through a tax on households making more than $500,000 a year. This would raise the city's top income tax rate to 4.3 percent from 3.88 percent, meaning, for instance, that those earning $1 million a year would pay an additional $2,000 annually in taxes, the higher rate kicking in after the first $500,000. This would still leave the top tax rate lower than it was during the first Giuliani years; from 1994 to 1998 it was 4.46 percent. It is hard to imagine the financiers who spend millions of dollars a year contributing to the Robin Hood Foundation, the hedge fund industry's poverty-fighting charity, suddenly crying socialism at the thought of spending what would amount to a dinner bill at Le Bernardin to improve the public school system. The notion of raising taxes to assist an ailing education system was endorsed 10 years ago by Bob Riley, then the governor of Alabama, a Republican who saw it as the properly Christian thing to do.
When I asked Mr. de Blasio if he planned to do something even more extreme and begin taxing carried interest as income, which would divert more Wall Street money to city coffers, he said he was thinking about it but worried, as many who lean to the right do, that it would cause members of the luxury class to flee the city.
It is worth remarking, too, that Mr. de Blasio has won difficult elections in the past and that he has as his campaign manager Bill Hyers, who ran President Obama's successful operations in Pennsylvania during the last election.
In an NBC 4 New York/Wall Street Journal/Marist Poll of likely Democratic primary voters released on Thursday, Mr. de Blasio landed in a tie for second place, behind Christine C. Quinn and statistically even with Mr. Weiner and William C. Thompson Jr.
Four years ago, during his race for public advocate, Mr. de Blasio lagged considerably in the polls against Mark Green in August. He won the Democratic primary runoff with 62.4 percent of the vote. ''My problem,'' the political consultant Jerry Skurnik told me, ''is that I've always underestimated him.''
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill de Blasio, far left, and Anthony D. Weiner at a candidates' forum held by the Gay Men's Health Crisis on Tuesday, after Mr. Weiner admitted having sent explicit online messages. Top, Mr. de Blasio with reporters after the forum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (86%); GAYS & LESBIANS (85%); MEN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); RENT CONTROL (72%); MAYORS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); MEN'S HEALTH (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (59%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



809 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CROSS CUTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2093 words

HEADLINE: Bad in the Bones

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
In an episode midway through the second season of ''Breaking Bad,'' Walter White was honored with his very own narco-corrido, a song (performed in a precredit sequence by the group Los Cuates de Sinaloa) that spread the legend of ''Heisenberg'' across the border from New to Old Mexico and foreshadowed his clashes with the cartel competition. ''This homie is already dead; he just doesn't know it yet,'' the lyrics warned, and of course the joke was that, at the time, Walter's unlikely career as a drug kingpin was made possible by exactly such knowledge. As far as he or anyone else could tell -- apart, perhaps, from Vince Gilligan, the creator of the series and the ultimate master of Walter's fate -- cancer would finish Heisenberg long before any cartel hit man got to him. 
Now, five years in, the cable-watching public is awaiting the final stanzas next month in the Ballad of Walter White, who has evolved into a complicated and very contemporary folk hero. His Heisenberg pseudonym was borrowed from the physicist whose uncertainty principle is popularly understood to express the idea that the presence of an observer changes the nature of what is observed. And Walter, a sad-sack high school chemistry teacher who found a vocation cooking the finest methamphetamine money could buy, was always adept at shifting his appearance depending on who was watching.
In truth, though, his development over five seasons has been less a shocking transformation than a series of confirmations. Mr. Gilligan's busy and inventive narrative machinery has provided plenty of cleverly executed surprises, but these have all served to reveal the Walter White who was there all along. The sides of his personality -- sociopath and family man, scientist and killer, rational being and creature of impulse, entrepreneur and loser -- are not necessarily as contradictory as we might have supposed.
Or rather, if we insist on supposing that they are, it may be for our own sentimental reasons. We love our television antiheroes, sometimes blindly. When James Gandolfini's death last month revived our affection for Tony Soprano, New York magazine reposted ''The Long Con,'' Emily Nussbaum's insightful 2007 post-mortem on ''The Sopranos.'' In it, Ms. Nussbaum argued that at a certain point, Mr. Gandolfini and the show's creator, David Chase, fully acknowledged Tony's monstrosity, and that viewers' decision to empathize or identify with him was their own guilty choice. The key message to the audience -- one many of us elected to ignore -- was a line delivered by a psychologist to Tony's denial-prone wife, Carmela: ''One thing you can never say, that you haven't been told.''
We have been told about Don Draper, too, though in the most recent season of ''Mad Men,'' his charm has begun to seem shopworn and sad, and his misbehavior more pitiful than demonic. And the truth about Walter White, played by Bryan Cranston in a career-defining, Emmy-dominating performance, has been there virtually from the beginning. Very early on, after he withdrew his savings so that he and his partner, Jesse, could buy the R.V. that served, for a time, as their mobile meth lab, Walter marveled that he felt ''awake.'' Everything he did thereafter, from the first self-defensive killing to the coldblooded murders that followed, he did with his eyes open.
Walter may have wanted us to believe -- and may, at moments, have convinced himself -- that he was a decent man driven by desperate circumstances to do terrible things, but that notion was either wishful thinking or tactical deceit. Viewed as a whole, in optimal binge conditions, with the blinds pulled down and the pizza boxes and chicken wrappers piling up around the couch, ''Breaking Bad'' reveals itself as the story of a man mastering his vocation and fighting to claim his rightful place in the world. Its dark, morally scandalous vision has been imposed on the kind of tale that is, more conventionally, an inspiring parable of entrepreneurial gumption. This formula turns out to be well suited to the times.
The three principal antiheroes of 21st-century cable television inhabit different regions in the kingdom of modern capitalism. Tony Soprano is the inheritor of a family business, his managerial challenges complicated by kinship ties and tribal customs. Don Draper occupies a high-rise corporate zone of corner offices, mergers and expense accounts. As original as ''The Sopranos'' and ''Mad Men'' undoubtedly are, they also knowingly draw on a rich reservoir of popular-cultural meanings attached to their chosen worlds. They look at familiar material from a fresh perspective, without quite letting go of the inherited romance of the Mafia and the advertising industry.
Walter's corner of the economic landscape is a more shadowy and decidedly less glamorous place, and one whose main representations are a bunch of books and alt-country songs. Methamphetamine has a long history, first as a legitimate pharmaceutical product and then as an illegal recreational substance. For most of that time, meth lacked the cachet and the panic-inducing power of cocaine, marijuana or LSD (or alcohol, for that matter), but over the past 15 years or so, it has become more visible as a problem and, therefore, as a symbol of other social dysfunctions.
Just as crack in the 1980s and '90s was associated with the mostly black ghettos of deindustrializing Northern cities -- the Baltimore of ''The Corner'' and ''The Wire,'' to stay within the context of cable television -- meth is linked to the fate of the rural and small-town working class. ''Well, it's a war out there, and it's fought by poor white men'' is how the alt-country band Old Crow Medicine Show sums up the situation in ''Methamphetamine,'' a song that evokes Appalachia both in its lyrics and its musical idiom. Daniel Woodrell's novel ''Winter's Bone'' (faithfully adapted in Debra Granik's 2010 film) weaves meth production and use into the folkways of southwestern Missouri, where the drug is seen both to hold families together -- providing work and income in hard times -- and to tear them apart.
But perhaps the most panoramic view of meth-era America is James McMurtry's ''Choctaw Bingo,'' an eight-and-a-half minute epic that the journalist Ron Rosenbaum once proposed as a new national anthem and that I prefer to think of as the Great American Novel set to music. On his concert album ''Live in Aught-Three,'' Mr. McMurtry describes it as ''a song about the north Texas-southern Oklahoma crystal methamphetamine industry,'' even though the drug is mentioned only once. In a series of verses built around a single chord, we are introduced to an extended clan that includes a long-haul trucker; a football coach and his wife, who are serious gun enthusiasts; and a pair of fun-loving sisters from a ''hell-raising town way up in southeastern Kansas,'' who are the narrator's second cousins. All of them are en route to a family reunion at the home of one Uncle Slayton, who, among many other activities (fishing, gambling, being mean), ''still makes whiskey 'cause he still knows how.''
But while home distilling may be a hobby at this point, it is also a link between traditional and newfangled forms of contraband manufacture. An enterprising fellow with plenty of ways to make money, Uncle Slayton ''cooks that crystal meth because the 'shine don't sell.'' Crank is for him what white lightning might have been to his father or grandfather: a cottage industry with a reliable customer base and tax-free revenue.
Not all meth production is local, of course. Home cooking of the kind practiced by Slayton (and, at least initially, by Walter White) is supplemented by and sometimes in competition with a wide-ranging trade pioneered by American motorcycle gangs in the '70s and later taken over by Mexican trafficking organizations. As Nick Reding suggests in ''Methland,'' his rich journalistic account of the effects of the drug on an Iowa farming and meatpacking town, if meth ''is a metaphor for anything, it is a metaphor for the cataclysmic fault lines formed by globalization.''
On one side of the fault line is a displaced, marginalized and at times all but invisible working class, frequently imagined as both the makers and takers of meth. In Mr. McMurtry's songs, cooking speed is roughly what slinging rock is in the rap of Jay Z or Young Jeezy: a signifier of authenticity, of demographic realness.
Which is precisely what Walter White lacks. The sociology of meth has never been the point of ''Breaking Bad,'' which made its debut near the end of the meth panic of the mid-2000s. The whole premise of the series is that Walter's entrance into the drug trade is a wild anomaly, albeit one with a certain perverse logic. He may be out of his element, but in a business dominated by home cooks on one side and foreign conglomerates on the other, surely there is room for an enterprising scientist devoted, above all, to quality control.
The timing of the show's debut obscured Walter's true class identity. In the autumn of 2008, with the economy in free fall, it was easy to suppose that he was falling, too, from a precarious middle-class existence into an underworld of criminality. He was working two jobs with crummy health insurance, a baby on the way, a broken water heater and a Pontiac Aztek in the driveway of his Albuquerque split-level.
But almost as soon as we met him, we were given strong hints that his fall had already taken place. The humble teacher and henpecked husband -- that was the disguise. How many such people have a plaque in their houses acknowledging their contributions to Nobel Prize-winning research? Heisenberg, his drug lord nom de guerre, was closer to Walter's true face than the stammering, shambling classroom cipher he showed to his students and colleagues, the nebbish he was with his brother-in-law, Hank, or the milquetoast who shared a bed with his wife, Skyler.
Walter was, right from the start, a disenfranchised member of the nerd aristocracy, exiled from his place in the elite by his own stubborn pride and the treachery of his erstwhile partners. He was a mighty empire builder out of an Ayn Rand novel, biding his time amid the weaklings and plotting his revenge.
Think of his rich friends Gretchen and Elliot, whose offer to pay for Walter's treatment was a source of much misunderstanding in Seasons 1 and 2. The party at their elegant estate is Walter White's Rosebud moment, during which his deep motivating secret is disclosed. Walter, who shows up with Skyler in garish, too-formal clothes at an event defined by neutral tones and soft fabrics, sees what his best friend and former girlfriend, now partners in a successful tech company, have made of his research, and his envy is intensified by entitlement. Their life should have been his. He will find a way to get even.
And so, using his superior technical know-how, Walter puts together a start-up, making a boutique product more consistent than that made by enthusiastic hackers and more pure than the stuff pushed by the soulless cartels over the border. This kind of project is not easy. Our self-made man is yoked to unreliable partners, harassed by ruthless competitors and constantly beset by supply-chain problems. Raw materials are sometimes scarce. At other times, distribution is a headache. Government regulation -- in the form of the Drug Enforcement Agency -- will gum up the works. Walter must deal with people dumber than he is, or who are threatened by his intelligence. No one really understands his vision.
It's a familiar story. Walter White is in ''the empire business,'' which places him in the company of the other disrupters and innovators who started out in basements and garages and dorm rooms and shook up conventional business models. You know who I mean. Not that I'm suggesting that the Jobses and Zuckerbergs of the world are drug dealers, however habit-forming their wares may be. The allegory of ''Breaking Bad'' is hardly so blatant.
But the series is nonetheless a sustained and stringent critique of entrepreneurial ideology in the form of an unsparing character study. Walter is almost as good at self-justification as he is at cooking meth, and over the course of the series, he has not hesitated to give high-minded reasons for his lowest actions. In his own mind, he remains a righteous figure, an apostle of family values, free enterprise and scientific progress. That's an old song. We all know the words. But Uncle Slayton's version might be more honest. He likes that money, he don't mind the smell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bryan Cranston, above, as Walter White in this season's ''Breaking Bad,'' and, in earlier times, far left (with Anna Gunn and R J Mitte as his wife and son) and below right (with Aaron Paul as his partner, Jesse). Below center, Walter's thematic kin in ''The Sopranos'' (from left, Tony Sirico and James Gandolfini). Bottom, James McMurtry, whose song ''Choctaw Bingo'' chronicles meth-era America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY URSULA COYOTE/AMC
DOUG HYUN/AMC
FRANK OCKENFELS/AMC
WILL HART/HBO
 JEREMY GREEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR14) DRAWING (DRAWING BY O.O.P.S.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (90%); CARTELS (76%); AUTOPSIES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



810 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Chinese, With Revamped Force, Make Presence Known in East China Sea

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China launched its revamped coast guard last week and immediately sent four ships, emblazoned with the new red, white and blue logo, to patrol waters off disputed islands in the nearby East China Sea.
The message was clear: China planned to use the new unified paramilitary vessels to keep pressure on Japan over the sovereignty of the tiny islands, an issue that has riled relations between the two countries.
At the same time as the newly designated coast guard vessels appeared in the waters on Wednesday, China sent a turboprop early-warning aircraft through international airspace between the islands of Okinawa and Miyako, an area where Japan said Chinese planes had not flown before. The Japanese called the flight by the Y-8 aircraft the latest in a series of provocations aimed at forcing concessions from Japan, which administers the disputed islands, known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan. 
The merger of four Chinese maritime units into one superagency was announced in March. The actual creation of the new force has been nervously awaited in the Asia Pacific region as another sign of China's fast-growing maritime capability and its determination to enforce claims in the South China Sea, as well as the East China Sea.
The large number of Chinese and Japanese maritime vessels in dangerous proximity in the East China Sea at a time of high tensions over the islands has raised alarm in Washington about clashes that could lead to larger conflict.
In such an escalation, the United States might be pulled into the fight because the mutual defense pact with Japan obliges Washington to defend all territories administered by Japan.
A senior Chinese Navy official, Zhang Junshe, vice president of the Naval Research Institute, hailed the unification of China's maritime law enforcement agencies under a new National Oceanic Administration as the creation of an ''iron fist'' that would replace ineffective operations scattered among a number of agencies.
In Washington, the growing power of China's maritime forces is being closely watched. The American allies in the region -- Japan, South Korea and the Philippines -- all have serious squabbles with China over maritime territorial and boundary issues, and fishing rights. The Philippines is taking an arbitration case over an island dispute with China to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
At a conference on maritime safety in Beijing last week, four retired American admirals, three retired American defense attachés and a group of American maritime experts met with Chinese officials to discuss the ramifications of the strengthened Chinese Coast Guard.
The new coast guard is a ''positive development,'' said Susan L. Shirk, a former deputy assistant secretary of state, who organized the conference for the University of California Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation. Vessels belonging to the fisheries law enforcement agency have been particularly aggressive in the South China Sea over the past few years, and this kind of behavior may be modified under the new structure, she said.
''It's good for China's neighbors and the United States because we know who is responsible and who we can hold responsible,'' Ms. Shirk said. ''As they develop a sense of professionalism in accordance with international law, it should make for lower risk of accidents.''
A Chinese naval expert, Li Jie, said the Chinese coast guard ships would most likely be outfitted with ''light weaponry,'' like ''high-pressure water cannons and guns.'' Japan's Coast Guard ships, which patrol the waters off the disputed islands, are armed with weapons including large deck guns, similar to those on board United States Coast Guard vessels.
''We should be realistic,'' Ms. Shirk said. ''The Chinese Coast Guard will model themselves on the United States, and the Japanese and the South Korean Coast Guards, all of which are more capable with equipment than the Chinese Coast Guard at the moment.''
A rapid five-year program to build 30 new cutters for China's Coast Guard, announced in 2010, is well under way, said Lyle J. Goldstein, associate professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute of the United States Naval War College in Rhode Island, who attended the Beijing conference. ''Our Coast Guard would love to have a building program that approximates that.''
In some respects, the reinforced coast guard, even as it plays an important role in territorial disputes, should not be a concern, he said.
''Of the 10 biggest ports in the world, more than half are in China,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''They have some of the busiest sea lanes in the world. Even putting the disputes aside, there are still legitimate safety, environmental and management reasons for these enhanced capabilities.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Asia's two economic giants spar in both word and gesture over the islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); ADMIRALTY LAW (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (67%); FISHERIES (67%); FISHING LAW (67%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (66%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (75%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); EAST CHINA SEA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



811 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2426 words

HEADLINE: Call Me 'Mansion'

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
The new mansions of Manhattan, and the urban Gatsbys flush enough to buy them, are having a moment, uptown and down. But these 21st-century mega-estates -- pretenders, in the opinion of some traditionalists -- are a bold departure from the definition of the classic city palace: a monolith optimally possessing ample frontage on a distinguished avenue.
Landmark stand-alones with Tara-evocative staircases and dimensions to match are being upstaged by nouveau models that are actually colossal lower-floor components of luxury condominium conversions. They have been downsized just a smidgen and modernized to the hilt, and they are usually attached to the development by a discretionary umbilical cord -- a private door to an attended lobby.
The condominium provides the service staff (for a fee), absolving the mansion-owner of the annoyance of bankrolling the square footage needed to house a private in-house staff and a load of other responsibilities inherent in homeownership. Call these mansions of convenience, and daringly expensive. 
''We're seeing the term 'mansion' used as an enticing marketing term to put a better spin on units on the lower floors of luxury condominiums,'' said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group.
''I agree that the addition of condo amenities offers an enhanced lifestyle component as compared to that of the town house,'' she continued. ''But I don't know why they have to call them mansions. It seems like developers have found a way of glamorizing what might have been ordinary space and fetching an extra price for it.
''Maybe,'' Ms. Liebman said, ''this is New York City's version of the McMansion, a grand multilevel space that is fully amenitized. This is a way to differentiate a product that hasn't been offered in the past: but whatever it's called, it still has to deliver.''
Supposedly it does, or will eventually. Few are functional yet, but that didn't stop the modern art fancier Alberto Mugrabi, whose family owns the largest private collection of Warhols in the world, from contracting to buy not just one but two of the four mansions offered by prospectus at the Schumacher, a Bleecker Street conversion. Once combined, they will provide him with a 9,000-square-foot playpen/gallery and his very own front door. Maybe two.
''I stumbled onto something that totally fit expectations I didn't even know I had,'' Mr. Mugrabi said. ''The layout is perfect. I thought I wanted views, but here my views will be of a beautiful courtyard. It's hard to find new space with those dimensions, and I love it that it's in an old building being elegantly restored.
''When I think of mansions,'' he said, ''I think of the Frick, or a humongous house on the Upper East Side. I guess I'm going to have one of my own downtown, but I probably won't call it my mansion. I'll call it home. Or my pied-à-terre, ha-ha.''
By sleight of description, developers and brokerages are marketing as mansions enormous and extravagant lower-floor spaces inside -- or in a few cases alongside -- top-shelf condo conversions. This is because, according to them, using words like ''maisonette'' or ''town house'' would unfairly diminish the product in the eye of the buyer/beholder.
''The informal rule of thumb in real estate is that residences with 25 feet or more of frontage are mansions -- it's sort of the litmus test,'' said Roy Stillman of Stillman Development International, the developer of the Schumacher, the $70 million conversion of a 19th-century printing house at 36 Bleecker Street.
Of the 20 units there, 4 were designated mansions (3 are spoken for). The 4 mansions range in price from $6.75 million to $10.995 million. ''Just being eligible for the word didn't make it true,'' he said. ''A big place that's shoddy is just a big, shoddy home. These homes convey Old World grandeur. From a subjective perspective, I can say that they are bona fide mansions and pass the straight-face test.''
Also, according to the purveyors, the newfangled concept is superior to the traditional version precisely because, along with all that newness and potential for customization, it offers an option the old-timers can't: an embarrassment of 24/7 white-glove amenities, security and service.
Sure, all of these condo-dependent mansions have their own private front doors, but owners can also come home via the main lobby, under the watchful eye of the doorman/concierge, if they're feeling sociable. Or lonesome.
With the recession emphatically in the rearview mirror of the very wealthy, the mansion lifestyle is back in vogue.
''We call it the ultimate oasis offering the luxury of privacy and the privilege of service,'' said Elida Jacobsen Justo, the sales director for the Carlton House at Madison Avenue and East 61st, ''and just by virtue of its sheer size, we couldn't think of anything else to call it but a mansion.'' She was speaking of a $65 million limestone mansion, with five stories and 10,000 square feet, being built from scratch alongside Extell Development's swank conversion of Carlton House, the former hotel.
''It will have the look and feel of a classic mansion,'' she noted, ''except that every aspect of it is brand-new.'' And the owner of this 35-foot-wide six-bedroom six-and-a-half-bath triterrace oasis will be able to partake of Carlton amenities like a 65-foot indoor swimming pool and perks from an equally exclusive neighbor, the flagship Barneys department store.
Prices for the 68 units range from $3.15 million to $65 million, with the mansion and the penthouse commanding top dollar. But, Ms. Justo said, ''each is attracting a different type of buyer.'' Penthouse people crave grandiose views; mansion people crave grandiose interior space and walls meant for displaying supersize art. The common denominator: grandiosity.
According to Karen Mansour, who is coordinating sales at 33 East 74th Street, a 10-unit luxury condominium assemblage of brownstones that includes the Grosvenor Atterbury Mansion, a 17,000-square-foot landmark, ''Buyers are looking for grand spaces with grand amenities: that's where the pendulum is swinging in Gold Coast neighborhoods.''
The developer, Daniel E. Straus of JZS Madison, had intended to market the Atterbury Mansion -- named for the architect who built it for a railroad heiress in 1901 --as a two-unit condominium. But after early feedback from potential buyers, JZS Madison is considering keeping it intact as a single-family residence (in which case the assemblage will total 9 homes, not 10). ''People seem to want an uber-residence with condominium services attached,'' explained Ms. Mansour, an executive vice president for development marketing of Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
''The trend of buyers in search of grand, elegant new homes that aren't jerry-built but are intentionally built on a grand scale has taken hold up here,'' said Sabrina Saltiel, also of Elliman.
She is the director of sales for the Marquand at 11 East 68th Street, the conversion by the HFZ Capital Group of a Beaux-Arts apartment building that also incorporates a new 20-room three-story residence on the approximate site of a mansion built in 1884 for Henry Marquand, a founder of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, an art collector and a railroad financier. (The original Marquand mansion was torn down in 1912 to make way for the apartment building.)
At the reimagined 22-unit Marquand, prices begin at $15 million and escalate to $58 million for the 10,500-square-foot, 48-foot-wide mansion, which according to the Marquand's principal architect, Lee Mindel of Shelton Mindel & Associates, will be ''the redefinition of a mansion.''
''These rooms are of a proportion not seen since the Carnegies and Astors,'' Mr. Mindel said. ''It would be a perfect embassy, or like getting to belong to, and own, your own private club. It has the luxury of autonomy and the added luxury of full condominium services. Previously we called it the maisonette or town house, but now the final scale of it warrants 'mansion.' ''
As do so many creative trends, this one supposedly began in Greenwich Village.
The sold-out Abingdon, the artsy, expensive 10-unit conversion of 320 West 12th, seems to have test-driven the mansion concept three years ago with a pair of behemoths at its base. The larger, a 9,600-square-foot triplex that sold for $23.4 million, is purportedly a recent acquisition of Steven A. Cohen, the head of the embattled hedge fund SAC Capital, as well as a collector of art and real estate. The smaller, a 6,000-square-foot duplex, sold for $13.2 million.
''We didn't set out to create mansions,'' said Tim Crowley, a managing director for Flank Development, ''and if you try to add value to a property by using the word, that's a pretty transparent marketing ploy. This was an architectural response to the space we wound up working with: the 13-and-a-half-foot ceilings, 56-by-30-foot living rooms, grand sweeping staircases, wood-burning fireplaces and overall volume distinguish them from town house or maisonette nomenclature. 'Mansion' is really the only word that gets it done.''
Also downtown, Delos is building a $45 million mansion as part of 66 East 11th Street, a five-unit loft-style experiment in residential wellness technology. The mansion has its own ''green wall'' garden and, for an extra $1 million, its own garage.
Uptown near the Whitney Museum on East 75th Street, the 17,000-square-foot Atterbury Mansion will be just a shell of its former self, but whatever: the au-courant Manhattan mansion is the antithesis of an antique. That's part of its charm.
Even an authentic oldie on the market for $30 million at 7 East 84th Street, a 13,000-square-foot, 25-foot-wide landmark built in 1884, boasts of its state-of-the-art security, air-conditioning and sound systems. One of a handful of homes between Fifth and Madison Avenues with private garages, the neo-Classical mansion has 8 bedrooms, 10 full baths, a wine cellar and tasting room, and 8 fireplaces with antique mantels imported from Europe. According to its listing brokers, Jessica Cohen and Lisa Simonsen of Douglas Elliman, the mansion nobly straddles two centuries: it offers ''today's amenities and retains yesterday's romantic sensibility.''
Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt might be horrified to learn that meditation nooks, lap pools, Zen gardens and media centers have usurped the ballrooms, gift-wrapping rooms, flower-arranging rooms, double staircases, endless fireplaces and handy dumbwaiters that were must-have amenities in turn-of-the-20th-century mansions. But certain features remain the same: private entrance, grand staircase, at least one elevator, outdoor space and a gallery capable both of displaying major artwork and entertaining major-league guests.
'' 'Mansion' is a powerful word, and what we're seeing at these condominiums is a blend of words for marketing purposes,'' said Paula Del Nunzio of Brown Harris Stevens, a frequent broker of historic mansions. ''It used to be that 20 feet wide could be a mansion, but these days it's closer to 30. It's become more of an ego matter.
''But,'' she continued, ''there are only a finite number of them left -- true mansions where the owner has full control of his own little castle. The Harkness set a record at $53 million, but by the time Larry Gagosian got it for $36.5 million, there was a 50-foot limestone facade but no bones left. What he bought was width and location. The prime of the prime, in my opinion, is still the Duke-Semans, with 27 feet of frontage on Fifth Avenue and 110 feet on East 82nd Street.''
She was referring to the traditional trophy mansion, that free-standing limestone island unto itself with at least 25 feet of prime Fifth or Park Avenue frontage, which has become an endangered species.
''I think there may be just three left on Fifth Avenue still operating as single-family residences,'' said Sharon Baum, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group, who sold the most flamboyant of the bunch, the Duke-Semans, at 1009 Fifth Avenue opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for the Duke family matriarch in 2006. ''It had been in the family for more than a hundred years; the only reason she sold it was, no one in the family wanted to move to New York City to live in it.''
The price was $40 million, and five years later Carlos Slim, one of the wealthiest men in the world, bought it for $44 million. With 19,000 square feet and eight levels, the house is generally acknowledged to be ''the most important Beaux-Arts residence in New York,'' Ms. Baum said, adding, ''But it's all in the eyes of the beholder.''
When it was on the market, Ms. Baum fielded inquiries from potential buyers wondering ''how many acres there were'' and whether ''it had bulletproof glass in the windows.''
Wendy Maitland, a senior managing director of Town Real Estate, disagreed with the rule of thumb that width and frontage are default determinants of mansion status. ''There can be a mansion that is 20 feet wide, if it is done in a specific way and possesses gravitas,'' she said. ''You can't just define a mansion by width or square footage: it has a private street-level entrance and is a stand-alone building, usually built in the late 1800s, typically limestone with five levels and multiple fireplaces and outdoor spaces, and the rest are, in my humble opinion, not actual mansions.''
Not all developers of luxe condominiums have jumped on the mansion bandwagon. At 18 Gramercy Park South, a genteel makeover of a Salvation Army boardinghouse by the team that brought 15 Central Park West (and Fifth Avenue pricing) to the West Side, there was no hesitation about what to christen the 3,746-square-foot, $9.53 million, two-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath residence with its own Irving Place entrance. Despite 17-foot ceilings and park frontage, it is a maisonette, period, and the least expensive unit.
''A mansion is a stand-alone home or very important town house,'' said one of the condo's developers, William Lie Zeckendorf. ''A maisonette is a town house contained within an existing building. A maisonette benefits from the building's services and staff, whereas a mansion needs to have its own services and staff.''
Having sold many of Manhattan's most opulent establishments, Ms. Baum finds humor in the sudden popularity of mansions, in whatever form. ''Don't forget about the mansion tax that has to be paid on any home that costs more than $1 million,'' she said. ''If you use the mansion tax as your definition, it means practically anybody who buys a home in Manhattan in this market is buying a mansion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TWO UNITS AT ITS BASE ARE BEING DESIGNATED 'MANSIONS.' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PANDISCIO)
THE ABINGDON, A 10-UNIT CONDO CONVERSION, WAS AN EARLY ADOPTER OF THE CONCEPT. (RE1)
THE REAL THING: Built in 1884, an actual mansion at 7 East 84th Street is for sale for $30 million. Top, another authentic oldie, the 1901 Duke-Semans mansion at 1009 Fifth Avenue, is considered by some to be the crème de la crème. It last sold for $44 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Part of the conversion of the Marquand, rendering at left, on 68th Street near Madison Avenue, is the creation of an in-house three-story ''mansion'' at the base of its left wing. A new five-story limestone mansion, rendering above, is being incorporated into the renovation of the Carlton House, a hotel-turned-condominiums at Madison and 61st Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HFZ CAPITAL GROUP
 DBOX) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



812 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: I Want to Be a Mayor

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
AS Americans, we've been raised on the notion that any child could dream of becoming president. But when you see how much ''fun'' Barack Obama and his immediate predecessors have had in that job -- and when you look at where the most exciting innovations in governance are happening -- how long will it be before our kids, when asked what they want to be when they grow up, answer: ''I want to be a mayor.'' Except in Detroit, mayors today have more fun.
In fact, if you want to be an optimist about America today, stand on your head. The country looks so much better from the bottom up -- from its major metropolitan areas -- than from the top down. Washington is tied in knots by Republican-led hyperpartisanship, lobbyists and budget constraints. Ditto most state legislatures. So the great laboratories and engines of our economy are now our cities. This is the conclusion of an important new book by the Brookings Institution scholars Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley, entitled: ''The Metropolitan Revolution: How Cities and Metros Are Fixing Our Broken Politics and Fragile Economy.'' 
For generations, they write, we held the view that ''the feds and states are the adults in the system, setting direction; the cities and the metropolitan areas are the children, waiting for their allowance. The metropolitan revolution is exploding this tired construct. Cities and metropolitan areas are becoming the leaders in the nation: experimenting, taking risks, making hard choices.'' We are seeing ''the inversion of the hierarchy of power in the United States.''
What produced this shift? First, they argue, the Great Recession blew up the deformed growth model we had settled into -- one ''that exalted consumption over production, speculation over investment, and waste over sustainability.'' The new growth model, which the most successful cities are practicing, focuses on creating networks that combine skilled laborers and knowledge workers, with universities and technical schools, with quality infrastructure and high-speed Internet, to do manufacturing, innovation, technology development and advanced services -- with an eye to exporting all of them. That's how we build a 21st-century middle class. ''The best cities now understand that you need to a have a sector of your economy that is world class'' in order to thrive, the authors argue.
Second, cities know that neither Washington nor state government will save them. ''Cities and metropolitan areas are on their own,'' the authors write. ''Mired in partisan division and rancor, the federal government appears incapable of taking bold action to restructure our economy and grapple with changing demography and rising inequality.''
Look around and you see cities ''doing the hard work of growing our new economy,'' they said to me in an interview. With federal funding for scientific research uncertain, Michael Bloomberg ''has created Applied Sciences campuses in New York City to spur innovation. Voters are putting up tax dollars for large-scale transit investments in Denver and Los Angeles and local leaders are leading the modernization of ports, airports and freight rail in Miami, Chicago, Jacksonville and Dallas.'' A network of economic development organizations in northeast Ohio is ''helping manufacturing firms retool their factories for new demand, using some federal dollars but also sizable investments from philanthropies.'' And, in Houston, a network of neighborhood centers is connecting new immigrants with low-cost banking, education, child care and health care -- while the immigration bill is stalled in Congress.
''Washington is dysfunctional politically, and it is not just a momentary thing,'' Rahm Emanuel, who gave up being the president's chief of staff to become mayor of Chicago, told me. ''We always said that there'd be a day when all that the federal government does is debt service, entitlement payments and defense. Well, folks, that day is here. So, federal support for after-school programs has shrunk. We added to ours, but I had to figure out where to get the money. The federal government is debating what to do with community colleges. We've already converted ours to focus on skills development and career-based education. I worked for two great presidents, but this is the best job I've had in public service.''
D's and R's will work together locally, unlike in their statehouse or Congress, say the authors, because how they feel about the place where they live and work ''is much stronger than how they feel about their party.''
Then there's Detroit. It is ''an extreme case,'' Katz and Bradley explained. It is a perfect storm of municipal mismanagement, auto company mismanagement, major job decentralization and property abandonment. ''Other cities face many of these challenges, but none to the same extent,'' they argued. ''Philadelphia has a daunting pension situation, as does Chicago, but both of those cities have things that Detroit lacked for decades: more jobs in their downtown cores and elected leaders who are not waiting for miracles but trying to move more aggressively to grow their economies, increase revenues, and manage debt.'' Wish them well. With both D.C. and the states increasingly AWOL, we need cities more than ever to be our engines of smart growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CHILDREN (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); BUDGETS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



813 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Lori Goldstein, Emil Steiner

 BODY:
Dr. Lori Ann Goldstein and Emil Steiner were married Saturday evening in Prague. Miroslav Sebela, a solemnizing officer, officiated on the grounds of Prague Castle. 
Dr. Goldstein, 35, is keeping her name. She is a psychiatrist in Philadelphia, where she is also the staff psychiatrist at the college counseling center at Drexel University. She graduated from the University of Virginia and received a medical degree from Jefferson Medical College.
She is a daughter of Linda A. Goldstein and Corky Goldstein of Harrisburg, Pa. The bride's father is the senior counsel specializing in criminal defense at Abom & Kutulakis, a law firm in Carlisle, Pa. Her mother is a vice president and the chief operating officer at the Harrisburg Regional Chamber and Capital Region Economic Development Corporation. She is a trustee at Harrisburg Academy, a private school.
Mr. Steiner, 34, is a freelance journalist who has written and edited blog posts on washingtonpost.com. Until June, he was an adjunct professor of communications at Temple University in Philadelphia. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's in journalism from Temple, where he is to begin doctoral studies in media and communication. His previous marriage ended in divorce.
He is the son of Wendy Steiner of New York and Peter Steiner of Philadelphia. The groom's mother retired as the Richard L. Fisher professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania. She has written seven books on the arts, including ''The Scandal of Pleasure: Art in an Age of Fundamentalism,'' and two opera librettos. His father is a professor of Slavic literature at Penn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (77%); WRITERS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); RELIGION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (81%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (81%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



814 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: The Psychology of an Irish Meltdown

BYLINE: By TANA FRENCH. 
The author, most recently, of the novel ''Broken Harbor.''

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- FOR the past month, Ireland has been outraged by tapes of Anglo Irish Bank officials, back in 2008, discussing lying to the government about how big a loan they needed, and how they knew there was no chance that the loan would ever be repaid. That loan was the first domino in a sequence that ended with the whole Irish economy flat on its face.
It's not the bankers' actions that have outraged people -- pretty much everyone had a fair idea that this was what had gone down. It's the overpowering sense of amorality revealed on the recordings, which were released by the Irish Independent newspaper. The bankers have a great laugh about the situation. It genuinely never seems to mean anything to them that the taxpayer is going to be forced to pay their bills, to the tune of tens of billions. More than that: it never seems to occur to them that their actions might harm people. 
I write psychological crime, so I spend a fair amount of time thinking about morality and amorality and what underlies them. And it seems to me that this amorality could be a symptom of something deeper: a total disconnect between action and consequence.
Ireland's population is just over half that of New York City's. Our ruling class -- including many of the politicians, bankers and property developers who wrecked the economy -- is a tiny community, interwoven by friendship, marriages, education, sports and financial transactions to a degree that would be unimaginable in a bigger country. That interweaving has created a safety net that won't let any of the ruling elite fall. If you're a banker and your golf buddy's kid wants to be a banker, then it doesn't matter if the kid is an idiot, or if he kills cats for kicks: you'll take him on, and you'll keep him on.
For many of these people, action and consequence don't apply; their lives are mapped out from birth, and nothing they do will alter that map. It seems to me that that would be intensely disempowering, even terrifying. Instead of being a series of interlinked actions, life is made up of a scattering of events that have no discernible relationship to one another and that you don't influence in any real way. In that climate, it would be difficult to develop the sense that your actions make any difference, that you have any responsibility for the consequences. Without cause and effect, there's no foundation for morality.
I'm not saying this is an excuse. It isn't. But, like everyone in Ireland, I want answers -- for the taxes piled on taxes, for the enormous cuts to essential services, for the dole queues and the flood of emigration, for the desperation in the voices of people who are trapped in ghost estates and don't have the money to buy their kids shoes. And I wonder if this could be one small facet of one of the answers.
Another question, maybe a more interesting one, is how people who weren't part of that powerful elite got sucked into the property pyramid scheme that fueled the boom. Some commentators have implied that the answer is basically the same: people got deep into credit-card debt, or took out mortgages for 10 times their income, because they were temporarily sucked into the psychosis of the powerful and it didn't occur to them that there might be consequences.
But I wonder if, for these people, the truth might actually be the opposite.
Throughout the economic boom, the politicians and bankers and property developers, along with the news media, were telling all of us that cause and effect were perfectly, inextricably linked: ''If you buy a vastly overpriced and shoddily built house in the middle of nowhere, the economy will keep growing, and in a few years your house's value will have doubled, and you can sell it to some other sucker and buy something you actually want and live happily ever after and UTOPIA!!!'' It was as simple and certain as sticking a coin into a vending machine: insert Action X, and the life machine will inevitably whir and beep and spit out Future Y.
THE Irish are notoriously cynical, but the Utopia myth hit at exactly the moment when we were most open to unquestioning belief. The majority of Irish people were so desperately poor, for most of the country's history, that when suddenly we weren't broke any longer, the cynicism was washed away by the flood of prosperity. We needed to believe that the Celtic Tiger hadn't simply wandered in, because that would mean it could wander out again. We needed to believe that we had somehow made it happen, and that therefore there were things we could do, like buying overpriced houses, to make it keep happening. We needed, basically, to believe in that chain of action and consequence.
And so the Irish tendency to raise an eyebrow at anything that's presented as certain paradise dissolved just at the moment when it was needed most.
A lot of my generation believed that chain was unbreakable. When it shattered, so did they -- not just financially (although that too), but also psychologically. Their whole sense of a world governed by coherent cause and effect, of their ability to have any agency in their own lives, came under attack.
Those people, the ones who trusted too deeply in action and consequence, were the ones who got utterly, shamelessly destroyed by the people who had no such belief. I'm pretty sure the effects of that betrayal, for Ireland, will take decades to fully unfurl.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The entrance to the Bank of Ireland, in Dublin, in the summer of 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRISO GENTSCH/DPA, VIA CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); CATS (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



815 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says He'll Evaluate Pipeline Project Depending On Pollution

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
GALESBURG, Ill. -- President Obama said in an interview that he would evaluate construction of the Keystone XL pipeline on the basis of whether it would significantly contribute carbon to the atmosphere. 
But he mocked Republicans' arguments that the approval of the pipeline, which would carry oil from Canada to the Gulf Coast, would create many jobs in the United States.
''Republicans have said that this would be a big jobs generator,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview with The New York Times. ''There is no evidence that that's true. The most realistic estimates are this might create maybe 2,000 jobs during the construction of the pipeline, which might take a year or two, and then after that we're talking about somewhere between 50 and 100 jobs in an economy of 150 million working people.''
He said 2,000 jobs were ''a blip relative to the need.''
The president also disputed the argument that the pipeline would help lower retail gasoline prices. He said most of the oil would be destined for refineries on the Gulf Coast and then exported. In fact, he said, the pipeline might increase prices somewhat in the Midwest, which would suddenly be able to ship more of its oil to other parts of the world.
But Mr. Obama suggested that he was also open to ways to ease concerns about the pipeline's environmental impact.
In previous remarks, Mr. Obama has said he will approve the pipeline only if it does not ''significantly exacerbate'' the problem of carbon pollution. In the interview, Mr. Obama said it was possible that Canada could ''potentially be doing more to mitigate carbon release.''
But he said it was not clear whether Canadian efforts would be enough to resolve concerns about pollution. And he reiterated the point that the decision about whether to proceed with the pipeline would be made after a recommendation by Secretary of State John Kerry.
''We haven't seen specific ideas or plans,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But all of that will go into the mix in terms of John Kerry's decision or recommendation on this issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); GASOLINE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



816 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Showcases Its Military Might at a Mass Rally

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea observed the 60th anniversary of the end of the Korean War by showing off its military might to the outside world in a parade through the center of the capital, Pyongyang, that featured columns of rocket tubes, goose-stepping paratroopers and intercontinental ballistic missiles, or at least mock-ups of the weapons.
When Kim Jong-un, the young leader, sauntered onto the reviewing stand in his trademark Mao suit, a sea of spectators cheered and waved flags and paper flowers as they filled a square named after the North Korean founder Kim Il-sung, his grandfather. As fighter jets screamed overhead, Mr. Kim clapped and chatted with Li Yuanchao, the visiting vice president of China, North Korea's wartime ally. 
The North Korean military has traditionally used large parades to swear its loyalty to the Kim family. But the spectacles have also been closely monitored by regional analysts and policy makers for clues about the state of the Kim dynasty's arsenal.
Mr. Kim appeared to be eager to feed that hunger and display his country's latest military hardware just months after a serious flare in tensions on the divided peninsula that included threats to stage nuclear attacks. As with other celebrations in the police state, this one was highly choreographed, and North Korea invited some international journalists to cover the events.
Mobile launchers rumbled before Mr. Kim and a crowd of journalists and other foreign visitors carrying the KN-08, widely believed to have been designed as the North's first intercontinental ballistic missile. Some analysts suspect that the KN-08, unveiled during a military parade in Pyongyang last year, is still being developed and that the missiles displayed might be mock-ups.
The North would need such missiles to be able to strike the United States with nuclear weapons, but it remains unclear if the country has been able to miniaturize bombs so they could fit on a long-range missile. The North says its missiles are a deterrent against American hostilities.
The Saturday parade also featured truckloads of baleful-looking soldiers hugging packs with radioactive warning symbols. With such a display, North Korea appeared to suggest that it may have created radioactive ''dirty bombs,'' said Shin In-kyun, a military expert who runs Korea Defense Network, a civic group specializing in military affairs.
''North Korea is exaggerating and showing off its nuclear and missile threats,'' Mr. Shin said.
Fears of North Korea's missile and nuclear capabilities have increased since it successfully launched a three-stage rocket in December -- which the West considers a test of its missile technology -- and claimed to have ''smaller, lighter and diversified nuclear strike means'' after a nuclear test in February, its third.
Also on display on Saturday were Musudan mobile missiles, believed to have a range of 2,500 miles, enough to reach the United States territory of Guam.
North Korea has never flight-tested the Musudan. Still, when North Korea showed signs that it might launch a couple of them this spring, Washington announced plans to speed up the deployment of an advanced antimissile system to Guam.
Although the Korean War was suspended in 1953 with a truce, North Korea celebrates the armistice anniversary as Victory Day.
During the months of increased tensions this year, North Korea said it was scrapping the armistice, leading to fears of armed clashes along the Korean border, but recently Mr. Kim has appeared more conciliatory.
In a speech on Saturday, Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, director of the army's General Political Department, called for a strong military to support North Korea's ''urgent task of building the economy and improving the living standards of the people.'' Mr. Kim did not speak.
Also on Saturday, South Korea's president, Park Geun-hye, warned that her government would never tolerate North Korean provocations. And President Obama said American veterans should have been celebrated more than they were for service in a grueling war.
''Here, today, we can say with confidence that war was no tie,'' Mr. Obama said in Washington. ''Korea was a victory.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); DIRTY BOMBS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); JOURNALISM (65%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



817 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN THE LARCHMONT AREA, N.Y.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: A ZIP Code, by Any Other Name

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
Rebecca Salko moved to Larchmont in 1988. Her family's first house, in the square mile that constitutes the village proper, was a three-bedroom colonial costing $480,000. Several years later, with two children in tow, she and her husband traded up, paying $1 million for a five-bedroom colonial in a part of the village called the Manor, which is known for its elaborate Victorians and other 19th-century homes, and which offers expansive views of the crenulated Long Island Sound.
Ms. Salko, now divorced and teaching nursery school, sold the second house, which she and her husband had renovated, four years ago for about three times what they paid. She lives in a four-bedroom Cape that cost $750,000. She described the village, with its picket fences and colorfully trimmed houses, as ''a walkable community and a perfect place to bring up a family.'' These days, as an empty nester (her son and daughter are in college), she continues to find it a neighborly place where shopkeepers know her by name. 
Jonathan and Valentine Gelman, both in their 40s and former residents of Manhattan, own a house within the same ZIP code, but beyond the point where the New Haven line of the Metro-North Railroad and Interstate 95 separate the village proper from the unincorporated portion of the town of Mamaroneck. Like many other residents with young children -- the couple have a 2-year-old son -- they sought out the 10538 ZIP code for two reasons: its well-regarded elementary schools, and its relatively short commute to Manhattan. They bought a five-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath 1931 Tudor for about $1.5 million, but not without some initial hesitation on the part of Ms. Gelman, a director for a fund-raising group in Manhattan.
''My wife is a city girl,'' said Mr. Gelman, a computer consultant for a firm in Jersey City, ''but she was swayed by the health benefits of living away from the city, especially for the baby's sake. I said to her, 'Look, there's no soot on the windows here,' and she was convinced.''
As in much of Westchester, where certain enclaves have high property values and taxes, the population of almost 17,000 (about 5,900 in the village) is overwhelmingly white, although a federally mandated remedy, in the form of new affordable housing countywide, is in the works. Median household income is $210,521.
But those statistics have not shielded its shopping area from the effects of the recession in recent years. Empty storefronts are not an unusual sight along Palmer Avenue, one of the busier thoroughfares. These days ''of course it's easy to park in Larchmont,'' said David Nadelson, the owner of Aroma, a coffee shop that opened 22 years ago. ''A lot of the stores that used to be here not so long ago are gone.''
Still, Mr. Nadelson's business has survived, despite the Starbucks across the street. And new businesses are opening. Judy Graham, the owner of Pink on Palmer, a bath shop in business since 2002, also owns Clutch, a handbag and jewelry store, and the Manor Home, a gift boutique.
Meanwhile, the contractor on a $1.7 million downtown project, which began in the spring, has since been declared in default over management and safety issues, said Mayor Anne H. McAndrews. Village lawyers are working to restart the project.
What You'll Find
Fanning out to the south between the Metro-North Railroad station and the Boston Post Road (also known as Route 1), houses on lots of 0.25 acres and smaller line a maze of streets. To the south of the highway is the area known as the Manor, adjoining what many residents consider the community's pride and joy: Larchmont Manor Park, 13 acres of walking paths, gazebos, benches and stretches of grass along more than 5,000 feet of shoreline. The park, which is open to the public, is privately owned by the Larchmont Manor Park Society.
The unincorporated section of Mamaroneck, north of the railroad tracks, has several tree-lined neighborhoods with a predominance of prewar Tudors on lots of a third of an acre or larger.
As part of a settlement reached with the federal government in 2009 to help desegregate housing in heavily white parts of Westchester like Larchmont, officials agreed to build a total 750 units of affordable housing and to advertise them aggressively among nonwhites. So far, says William Balter, the project's developer, 51 units are planned in the village, 46 of which count toward the settlement total. Construction is to start in the next few months.
According to the Mamaroneck assessor's office, the 10538 ZIP code has 4,596 single-family homes; 257 condominium units in four buildings; and 1,027 co-ops in 19 buildings. Ground was broken this spring on a fifth condo, in the unincorporated area, called the Cambium, which is to have 139 units, a few designated affordable.
Mark Nadler, the principal broker and owner of Prudential Centennial Realty, says co-ops and condos are popular among buyers drawn to Larchmont who can't afford a single-family home. Or, as Michael Flake, a resident who commutes to a law practice in White Plains, put it, ''You get more bang for your buck with a co-op.'' Eight years ago, when he and his wife, Jessica, a personal assistant to a Manhattan family, learned they were expecting twins, they decided to relocate from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, into a co-op in the unincorporated section. They live in a three-bedroom that cost $500,000.
''We have a Larchmont address and the ZIP code 10538,'' Mr. Flake said. ''Really, the only difference between the unincorporated part and the village is that you have to know which police department to call in an emergency. We call the town of Mamaroneck's.''
What You'll Pay
The median sale price of a co-op from January through June was $173,000; five years ago it was $229,000, Mr. Nadler said, noting that it was an opportune time for first-time buyers to enter Larchmont's housing market. As of July 5, there were listings for 29 co-ops, ranging from $81,500 for a studio, to $699,500 for a three-bedroom.
Annual property taxes on a $1.7 million house now on the market are $42,576; in neighboring New Rochelle, on a comparable house, the taxes are $29,953.
The median sale price of a single-family home was $1.05 million at the end of the second quarter, versus $1.11 million for the same period in 2008. Countywide for the same period this year, the median for a single-family residence was $600,000. A multiple listings search in early July turned up 63 listings, ranging from a $429,000 four-bedroom two-bath to a $16.2 million for a seven-bedroom six-bath with three half baths.
What to Do
The Larchmont area is rich with green space. One popular spot, Flint Park, has tennis courts, baseball and soccer fields and basketball courts. Another, Lorenzen Park, is home to Little League baseball and soccer teams. And Willow/Woodbine Park offers nature observation areas along the Premium River.
The Schools
Of the four elementary schools in the district, two serve Larchmont, one serves both Larchmont and Mamaroneck, and one is entirely for Mamaroneck students.
On state tests last year, 86 percent of fourth-graders met or exceeded standards in English, 91 percent in math, versus 59 and 69 percent statewide.
Total enrollment, including students at Hommocks Middle School and Mamaroneck High School, is about 5,100. Of the 367 graduates in June, 301 are to attend four-year colleges. SAT averages last year were 555 in reading, 572 in math and 560 in writing, versus 496, 514 and 488 statewide.
The Commute
Metro-North's New Haven line trains take about 35 minutes to reach Grand Central Terminal during peak hours. A one-way ticket costs $11.25 during rush hour; a monthly ticket costs $249. There are four public parking lots, most for permit-holders.
The History
During the 1700s, Quaker refugees from New England settled in the Larchmont area, followed by wealthy New Yorkers, according to the village historical society. By the end of the 18th century, Larchmont was known as a summer getaway for well-heeled city folk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larchmont Manor Park, with its 13 acres of walking paths and stretches of grass along the Long Island Sound shoreline, is a point of local pride. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHOK SINHA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); EMPTY NESTERS (67%); WALKING & JOGGING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



818 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: The Hype Over Hospital Rankings

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL. 
A reporter for The New York Times who is writing a yearlong series about the cost of health care, ''Paying Till It Hurts.''

 BODY:
LAST week U.S. News and World Report released its annual list of ''Best Hospitals.'' Web sites are being updated to celebrate victories. (Johns Hopkins ranks No. 1!) Magazines will be plump with advertising. (NewYork-Presbyterian is first in New York and tied for seventh nationally!) And, because I am a reporter covering health care, my in-box is accumulating e-mails from the ''Honor Roll'' of the Top 18 hospitals.
But what does this annual exercise mean for patients? And what does it say about American health care? 
After all, Harvard and Princeton, which tied for No. 1 in the magazine's 2013 Top 10 national universities list, didn't take out ads to proclaim their triumph; they will fill their classrooms no matter. And as in the college ratings, there are no big surprises in the top hospital group: they are the big academic medical centers -- the Mayo Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital, the Cleveland Clinic. More to the point, even though you might well fly across the country for four years of schooling, you are far more likely to stay near your home for medical care. No one's flying to Mayo in Minnesota to get inhalers for asthma, even though it ranks No. 1 for pulmonary medicine.
But American hospitals are a bit like restaurants, competing for your business (and donations). As such they go all out to promote their brand, even though hospitals and doctors are not permitted to advertise in many other countries.
For American hospitals large and small, it clearly pays to advertise, particularly in these tough economic times and with the Affordable Care Act poised to throw tens of millions of newly insured patients into the market. But for patients the rankings and, especially, the subsequent promotions generally have limited benefit, experts say.
''Nearly every hospital has a banner out front saying they're a 'top hospital' for something in some rating system,'' said Dr. Nicholas Osborne, a Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholar at the University of Michigan. ''Those ratings have become more important for hospital marketing than for actually helping patients find the best care.''
What's more, Dr. Osborne compared the outcomes of two ranking programs -- one by U.S. News and World Report and the other by Healthgrades -- and found a ''large discordance'' in their results. ''The two biggest rating systems come up with completely different lists,'' he said. ''What does that tell you?''
If such advertising often adds little in the way of useful information, it certainly adds to health care costs. Hospitals with more than 400 beds spent an average of $2.18 million on advertising in 2010, surveys have found.
''We're pushing $3 trillion in health expenditures, and one-third of that is waste,'' said Dr. Eric Topol, chief academic officer at Scripps Health in California. ''Those TV commercials saying 'I got my cancer care at X hospital' are a shame, definitely wasteful.''
To be fair, U.S. News cautions that its national ratings reflect how hospitals perform in treating ''technically challenging'' cases and that the list is merely a starting point after which ''patients have to do their own research.''
But those caveats are lost in the subsequent barrage of advertising. And the magazine encourages hospitals to post its seal of approval. In return, the U.S. News Web site is bursting with hospital advertising.
Some critics decry the glut of hospital self-promotion as not just wasteful and costly, but also potentially dangerous.
''There are general fraud laws, but there is no law specific to hospital advertising, and there should be,'' said Robert Steinbuch, a professor of law at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, who studies the topic. ''I can't tell you how many hospitals say, 'We have state-of-the-art CAT scanners' -- there is no such thing! It's an old technology.''
IN a country where numerous organizations -- including Yelp -- accredit, rate and rank hospital care, some accolades may indicate excellence and some don't mean that much at all, he added. And while teams of academics and scores of for-profit companies are developing ''quality'' metrics to guide health care reform and to help patients shop for their care, it turns out that rating a hospital accurately is extremely complicated. For one thing, hospitals that take on sicker patients might have more complications after surgery.
Yet even smaller hospitals tend to advertise their profit-making departments, like cardiology, even though they may not offer the full range of heart services.
''If they advertise cardiac care and don't have angioplasty, that's essentially fraud,'' Mr. Steinbuch said, adding that if a patient dies, ''that could be considered criminally negligent homicide.''
But health care advertising is probably here to stay. ''Hospital advertising sets up an arms war, so that hospitals feel they can't survive without aggressive marketing,'' said Dr. Topol of Scripps Health.
And even skeptics concede that health care ratings, when properly developed and employed, may help hospitals improve their performance and provide patients with valuable information.
If you have a rare lung condition that has flummoxed local doctors, for example, you may want to fly to Mayo since U.S. News has ranked it No. 1 in pulmonary medicine. And if a dozen hospitals in your area offer hip replacements, a search of regional rankings on the magazine's Web site will yield some useful statistics. But take all those hospital advertisements with a grain of salt.
Indeed, with thousands of good hospitals across the nation, the best selling point for routine medical care may simply be convenience: some studies show that patients prefer nearby hospitals with worse results over ones with better outcomes farther away.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY JOHNNY SELMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ASTHMA (51%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



819 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Foreclosure Relief

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
Legislation in New York awaiting the governor's signature would prevent lenders' lawyers from leaving homeowners facing foreclosure in a state of legal suspense.
The bill is intended to put an end to the ''shadow docket'' of pending foreclosure cases stuck in limbo for months or even years because lawyers for the lenders haven't filed the paperwork necessary for them to move into court.
''Interest and fees are being racked up with every passing month,'' said Jacob Inwald, the director of foreclosure prevention litigation at Legal Services NYC. ''And there isn't even a vehicle to try to resolve your problem, because once they've commenced a foreclosure action, you can't talk to your lender because you're in litigation.'' 
New York has a court-supervised mediation process to give homeowners a chance to work out a loan modification with their lender -- ''their best hope of making something happen,'' Mr. Inwald said. But homeowners trapped on the shadow docket can't begin that settlement process.
It was the state's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, who proposed a legislative remedy, along with the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman.
''We feel very strongly that the integrity of the court process is at stake,'' Judge Lippman said. ''It is our responsibility to ensure that these proceedings are meaningful and that everyone's rights are protected.''
He estimated the foreclosure backlog at roughly 12,000 cases, though earlier estimates put it closer to 25,000. Either way, he added, ''it's far, far too many.''
The bill approved by the Legislature in June essentially makes a technical fix to a rule change sparked by the robo-signing scandal, in which lenders' representatives were found to have signed off on foreclosure-related documents without verifying their accuracy. Lawyers filing foreclosure actions in New York must now submit a certificate affirming they have verified the accuracy of the documentation.
The problem is that when lawyers file foreclosure actions, they sometimes hold off on filing the mandatory affirmations, which prevents the cases from moving forward. The legislation would end this practice by requiring that the affirmations accompany foreclosure actions.
''You need to affirm straight up at the outset that you're attesting to the accuracy of the documents,'' said Sarah Ludwig, a director of the New Economy Project, a community advocacy group.
In a similar effort in June, over another required document, Mr. Schneiderman's office sued HSBC Bank for allegedly stalling several hundred foreclosure cases by failing to file the document, called a request for judicial intervention.
Filing the request obligates the lender to attend a settlement conference within 60 days. The attorney general charges that in some cases, HSBC waited for more than two years to file such requests, charging interest and penalties all the while.
Foreclosure prevention advocates are urging Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to sign the shadow docket legislation into law quickly to prevent the docket from growing longer. Even after signing, the bill wouldn't become effective for another 30 days. A spokesman for the governor's office said the legislation was under review.
Judge Lippman says he doesn't attribute any ''negative motivations'' to lenders' lawyers' failure to file the required documents in a timely manner, but thinks the ''proceedings have gotten off track.''
Ms. Ludwig takes a darker view. ''The whole foreclosure process has just been riddled with improprieties and unfairness to homeowners,'' she said. ''I think this is part of that bigger morass.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LITIGATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES NYC (57%)

PERSON: JONATHAN J JUDGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



820 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Christine Mott, Amir Feder

 BODY:
Christine Lauren Mott and Amir Feder were married Saturday at the couple's weekend home in Marbletown, N.Y. John J. Mocarski, a minister ordained by Universal Ministries, officiated. 
The bride, 31, is keeping her name. She is an associate at Cahill Gordon & Reindel, a law firm in New York. She graduated cum laude from Smith College and received a law degree from New York University.
She is a daughter of Carole Hahn Mott and Richard L. Mott of Kinderhook, N.Y. The bride's father is a Supreme Court justice for the Third Judicial District of New York State in Claverack, N.Y. Her mother retired as a special-education teacher for Questar III Board of Cooperative Educational Services for Rensselaer, Columbia and Greene Counties in Castleton, N.Y. She last worked at Red Mill Elementary School in Rensselaer, N.Y.
The groom, 38, is the chief financial officer for Droga5 New York, an advertising agency. He graduated from New York University and received an M.B.A. from Fordham.
He is a son of Na'ava Tzioni Feder and Gershon Feder of McLean, Va. The groom's mother is a Hebrew teacher at Temple Rodef Shalom in Falls Church, Va. His father, who retired as the division chief and the senior research manager of the research department at the World Bank in Washington, is the chairman of the publications review committee at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%)

COMPANY: CAHILL GORDON & REINDEL LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FOOD POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



821 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Back Onstage, With a Vengeance

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Trent Reznor was not happy. Sitting ramrod straight, dressed in a black T-shirt and black shorts, he was staring with grim concentration as his band, Nine Inch Nails, worked through their set in a full-scale production rehearsal at the Los Angeles Sports Arena. Smoke, strobe lights and video screens on wheels restlessly reconfigured themselves as the band performed, without Mr. Reznor's lead vocals and instruments. Through song after song, his glare and scowl barely wavered; he'd look away only to tap notes into his laptop. After the band ran through the full set, he convened the musicians and technicians in a back room, well away from a visiting journalist.
''I don't like having to yell at people,'' he said the next day. ''But I was letting them know the severity of the situation.'' A lot had to shape up, and very soon.
In the course of a daylong tech rehearsal, some of it would. Powerful stage lights would no longer wash out video screens; the speed and density of interactive displays featuring cascades of virtual particles would be adjusted; the ''chaos'' and ''turbulence'' Mr. Reznor and his art director, Rob Sheridan, wanted to arise in each song would be calibrated to their specifications. 
In 10 days Nine Inch Nails would be on tour for the first time since 2009, when Mr. Reznor had his band ''disappear for a while,'' as he wrote on the band's Web site. ''Hesitation Marks'' (Columbia), a new Nine Inch Nails album that sounds radically different from the guitar-driven blasts of aggression that the band released before the hiatus, is due for release on Sept. 3.
''Hesitation Marks'' -- the term for the self-inflicted wounds of people contemplating suicide -- veers toward the electronic and the pointillistic, and it reveals its anxieties and longings more subtly than much of the Nine Inch Nails catalog. It looks back, from a distance of two decades, on ''The Downward Spiral,'' Mr. Reznor's 1994 masterpiece that contemplated self-destruction and suicide during a period of personal and career turmoil; it became Nine Inch Nails' musical and commercial breakthrough. It also, in the long run, will test how fans respond to a more grown-up Nine Inch Nails. ''I'm proud of it,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''What fear I had -- of 'What does Nine Inch Nails have to say in 2013?' -- this is it. I don't feel like it's trying to force something into the wrong container.''
The band is introducing a few of the new songs before the album's release as it plays headlining slots at 14 summer festivals worldwide, including Lollapalooza in Chicago on Friday, Outside Lands in San Francisco on Aug. 10 and Made in America in Philadelphia on Sept. 1. It released a single, ''Came Back Haunted,'' in June, with a video clip directed by David Lynch.
Mr. Reznor isn't easing back into performing. Most bands play festivals with a bare-bones production, for quick setup on a shared stage. His is making a far more elaborate comeback. The show brings dizzying visual effects to an idea borrowed, Mr. Reznor freely admits, from the 1983 Talking Heads tour, filmed as ''Stop Making Sense.'' Mr. Reznor starts out onstage alone, and the band gradually assembles around him. From there, the visuals escalate. ''We're always pushing the envelope,'' said Roy Bennett, the band's longtime lighting and production designer. ''We've always tried to make people think and keep them on edge and keep them wondering what's going on.''
The trajectories of lights and video screens, pushed around by the road crew, are so complex that the tour has them choreographed -- with time-code cues -- to avoid collisions and tangled power cords. (But the band, Mr. Reznor pledged, has ''no dance moves.'')
After the festival shows, Nine Inch Nails will mount an entirely different production with three weeks of rehearsals in September, to headline arenas through much of the next year. ''The fact that we're doing all this only for these few shows, and then we have to do it over again, throwing all this out to do a completely new thing, with new things that won't work,'' Mr. Reznor said, ''that feels a little insane.''
But he was determined to make the return of Nine Inch Nails memorable. ''O.K. is not acceptable,'' he said. ''Strangely, we're bigger now than we were ever before. When we put the single out, and we put tickets on sale, the question mark was answered. This is the biggest it's ever been. Maybe it's scarcity or time away.''
Mr. Reznor, 48, has been a taboo-smashing songwriter with music that meticulously blends melody and abrasion, ferocity and detail. Since 1989, when Nine Inch Nails released its debut album, ''Pretty Hate Machine,'' Mr. Reznor has been recording songs that exorcise pain, fear and rage as they embrace extremes. In the 1990s, he melded styles that had segregated themselves -- electronica, punk, metal, pop melody -- to give voice to bitter alienation and self-lacerating fury, the urge to annihilate himself or the world. His music can be ominous, brutal, danceable, noisy and still, amid the fray, tuneful. In the studio, the band is largely Mr. Reznor on his own; for tours, he hires band members to rework his meticulous productions as visceral live rock.
''My incentive originally for making music was just a way to cathartically get this out,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''Then I discovered, in the process of doing it, that some ugliness led to some element of beauty. And the process made me feel better. And then when I saw people responded to it and could relate to it -- I'm projecting here, but they may have felt less alone.''
But the pressures Mr. Reznor put on himself in his 20s were overwhelming. As he was making albums that would influence a generation of musicians, he succumbed to drug and alcohol abuse until, in 2001, he went through rehab and sobered up. It was, he said, ''threat of death, gun to your head -- do this or you're going to die.''
He was more levelheaded, and less tormented, when he re-emerged in 2005 and released the aptly titled ''With Teeth,'' and returned to touring and recording. Newly prolific, Mr. Reznor made another two albums during that decade -- ''Year Zero,'' a concept album about a dystopian future, in 2007, and ''The Slip'' in 2008 -- as well as a 2008 collection of three-dozen instrumentals, ''Ghosts I-IV.'' When he made ''The Slip'' available free online -- ''This one's on me,'' he wrote on the Web site -- 2.4 million copies were downloaded, while a deluxe physical package sold another quarter of a million copies. Clearly, fans still cared.
But onstage in mid-June of 2009, at the Bonnaroo festival in Tennessee, Mr. Reznor suddenly announced that Nine Inch Nails' set there would be its ''last show ever in the United States.'' He added: ''Don't be sad. I'll keep going. But I think I'm going to lose my'' -- an emphatic word -- ''mind if I keep doing this, and I have to stop.'' Nine Inch Nails went on to tour Europe and played a final concert in Los Angeles, then lay low.
''After several years in a row of pretty consistently touring, I felt kind of burned out,'' Mr. Reznor said at the arena. ''I felt tired of the format. It was starting to feel stale to me.''
He married the singer Mariqueen Maandig in October 2009, and they now have two sons, Lazarus and Balthazar; he's taking the entire family on tour with him. (His dressing room at the arena held two playpens.)
His plans to set music aside briefly for other pursuits didn't last. The director David Fincher had used some of the ''Ghosts'' instrumentals as temporary scoring for scenes from ''The Social Network,'' and he persuaded Mr. Reznor -- collaborating with his co-producer and studio wizard Atticus Ross -- to write a full new score for the film. That music won an Academy Award; by then, Mr. Reznor and Mr. Ross had signed on to score Mr. Fincher's next film, ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.''
Film scoring was in some way a relief, Mr. Reznor said. ''It was nice being treated respectfully and being in service to something that, at the end of the day, it isn't mine,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''It's his worry.''
But songwriting beckoned. Mr. Reznor resumed in 2010 with How to Destroy Angels, a collaboration with Ms. Maandig, Mr. Ross and Mr. Sheridan, that ended up touring this spring with its own eye-popping production. He was also writing and recording new Nine Inch Nails songs.
Mr. Reznor said he had ''The Downward Spiral'' in mind as he was working on the lyrics and tone of ''Hesitation Marks.'' (Russell Mills, an artist fascinated by natural processes like erosion and decay, ended up creating the album covers for both.) ''I felt very aware that it's 20 years later, and I'm still that guy,'' he said. ''I know that guy, and I feel for him. I don't resent him, I don't miss him. But how would things feel on the other side of that now, in a much more stable life place, mentally and physically, and with a new family?''
He added: ''The incentive has changed. It's not about, 'I'm going to kill myself if I don't get this out of my head.' But the excavation and the architecture behind it, the motivation behind it, is similar.''
''Hesitation Marks'' was a year of patient effort. Mr. Reznor composed music on his laptop, using it largely as a drum machine and coming up with austere, brittle, sneakily evolving grooves. ''It feels sparse, and it feels minimal,'' he said. ''It's hard for me to do that. I've realized over the years that if I have 100 tracks, I'll use 110 tracks. This was really about economy. It was just a weird puzzle of grooves.''
And in the context of the Nine Inch Nails catalog, where a whisper tends to lead, sooner or later, to a scream, Mr. Reznor found himself following other impulses. ''It didn't dawn on me until I was almost done with the record that I don't really even raise my voice on this album that much,'' Mr. Reznor added. ''The mechanism of screaming choruses doesn't exist here. And that wasn't by design.''
He said: ''I don't think it's a gentle record. I do think it's more subversive in how it gets you. It's not about everything being at 11 and the pyrotechnics of sound and scare tactics, which I've definitely used in the past. But it doesn't feel like the middle-aged, I've-given-up record either.''
Early in the recording process, Mr. Reznor brought in collaborators from outside the usual sphere. He recorded extensively with the guitarist Adrian Belew, who had worked with David Bowie and King Crimson and played with Talking Heads in the early 1980s. (Mr. Belew joined, then left, the tour rehearsals. ''It didn't work,'' he wrote on Facebook.) Mr. Reznor also did sessions with the bassist Pino Palladino, who had helped construct the slinky grooves on D'Angelo's album ''Voodoo,'' and with Lindsey Buckingham, Fleetwood Mac's guitarist.
Mr. Buckingham and Mr. Reznor spent one day in the studio, with Mr. Buckingham jamming on multiple tracks; his playing ended up in three songs. ''There was a bit of a kindred spirit there even though the styles were different,'' Mr. Buckingham said by telephone from Hawaii. ''His process was something like a painting process like I work, where you're slopping colors around and looking for clues, and it becomes a subconscious process in which the work reveals itself to you.''
As the album took shape, surprising songs emerged. One, ''Find My Way,'' is an overt prayer. And the album's final song with words, ''While I'm Still Here,'' faces up to mortality yet ends up with thoughts not of apocalypse or alienation, but of quiet connection: ''Stay with me, hold me near, while I'm still here,'' Mr. Reznor sings.
He thought hard about how that would fit the Nine Inch Nails canon. ''To include it as the final emotional ending point of the record, that ties things together -- that's daring for me,'' he said. ''It would be safe if I made it uglier and noisier. It's not safe. So I think that maybe it's the right thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, top, and, from left, with Marilyn Manson in 2000
rehearsing in Los Angeles for the band's first tour since 2009
and with his wife, Mariqueen Maandig, when he won an Oscar for scoring ''The Social Network,'' in 2011. The new Nine Inch Nails album, ''Hesitation Marks,'' is due Sept. 3. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BUSINESS WIRE
 ROB SHERIDAN PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RECORD RELEASES (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); WRITERS (69%); SUICIDE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



822 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TRANSCRIPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5063 words

HEADLINE: Interview With President Obama

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of an interview with President Obama conducted by Jackie Calmes and Michael D. Shear of The New York Times. The interview was conducted at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., on July 24, 2013.
NYT: So we're here with you, already four years since the recession officially ended. And as your speech sort of laid out, you still have a situation where growth remains slow, income's is unequal, and a lot of American -- unemployment high -- and a lot of Americans start to worry that this is the new normal. Your intentions aside like you stated them out there in the speech, why shouldn't we expect that you're going to leave behind an economy that's fragile, continued income inequality, and a weakened middle class?
MR. OBAMA: Well, obviously, what Congress does matters. As I said in the speech, the economy is far stronger now than it was four and a half years ago. Most economists believe that growth will actually pick up next quarter and the second half of the year. And the one thing that could really screw things up would be if you have a manufactured crisis and Republicans choose to play brinksmanship all over again. 
And I'm glad to see that there are folks in the Senate who I think have already indicated that that is not good policy. We can have debates about fiscal issues without precipitating a crisis. Certainly the idea that we wouldn't pay our bills and plunge not just the United States but potentially the world into another financial crisis makes absolutely no sense.
But what I also said out there is true that if we stand pat, if we don't do anything, then growth will be slower than it should be. Unemployment will not go down as fast as it should. Income inequality will continue to rise. Wages, incomes, savings rates for middle-class families will continue to be relatively flat. And that's not a future that we should accept.
So the entire intention of the speech is to make sure that we are focused on the right thing. It doesn't mean that I expect Republicans to agree with all my prescriptions, but it is to say that the central problem we face and the one that we faced now that the immediate crisis is over is how do we build a broad-based prosperity.
And I want to make sure that all of us in Washington are investing as much time, as much energy, as much debate on how we grow the economy and grow the middle class as we've spent over the last two to three years arguing about how we reduce the deficits.
NYT: But do you worry, Mr. President, that that description of that sort of standing pat, what happens if you stand pat and the sort of slower than expected -- do you worry that that could end up being your legacy simply because of the obstruction that -- and the gridlock that doesn't seem to end?
MR. OBAMA: Well, let's separate it from me for a second, because I think if I'm arguing for entirely different policies and Congress ends up pursuing policies that I think don't make sense and we get a bad result, it's hard to argue that'd be my legacy. And so I'll worry about my legacy later or I'll let historians worry about my legacy.
I do worry about what's happening to ordinary families here is Galesburg and all across the country. When we know that rebuilding our infrastructure right now would put people back to work and it's never been cheaper for us to do so, and this is all deferred maintenance that we're going to have to do at some point anyway, I worry that we're not moving faster to seize the moment. When we know that families are getting killed by college costs, for us not to take bold action -- which means that young people are graduating with massive debt, they can't buy a home as soon as they want, they can't start that business that they've got a great idea for -- that worries me.
So as I suggested in the speech, what I want to make sure everybody in Washington is obsessed with is how are we growing the economy, how are we increasing middle-class incomes and middle-class wages, and increasing middle-class security. And if we're not talking about that, then we're talking about the wrong thing. And if our debates around the budget don't have that in mind, then we've got the wrong focus.
NYT: Well, you said it yourself in the speech that Washington has taken its eye off the ball. Do you have any -- are you culpable at all in that? Did you -- it's six -- it's July now, it's almost August. Do you wish you were giving a speech like this earlier and done it more often?
MR. OBAMA: If you look over the last six months, we right away delivered on the promise to make sure that our tax code was more reflective of our values; that middle-class families locked in relief that they needed; folks like me, at the very top, paid a little bit more. That, by the way, was a fundamental shift that was a decade in the making. That was a big argument.
Immediately after that, obviously, we had the tragedy in Newtown and the need for a response. And my wish and hope had been that that was a quicker piece of business and that we had gone ahead and moved forward on that.
Immigration reform actually squarely fits into what I'm discussing right now. As I indicated before, we know the economy will grow faster if we get immigration reform done. We know that Social Security will be shored up if we get immigration reform done. And the Senate's done the right thing by passing a strong bipartisan bill.
So what I will absolutely admit to is that I've been here -- I've been in Washington long enough now to know that if once a week I'm not talking about jobs, the economy, and the middle class, then all manner of distraction fills the void.
NYT: Is there any part of your agenda moving forward that you think you are willing to move to the backburner so that you can spend more time on the economy?
MR. OBAMA: Well, immigration reform we've got to get done, and that right now is just a matter of the House Republicans recognizing that both the American people, businesses, labor, evangelicals -- there's a broad consensus to go ahead and pass that bill, and if that bill was on the floor tomorrow it would pass.
Beyond that, though, we're working on a range of other issues -- from climate change to reforming government to reducing the backlog in the VA. So there's a bunch of stuff we're going to be doing.
I will be spending my time over the next several weeks talking about the issues in more detail that I discussed today so that by the time Congress gets back in the fall, I want to make sure that the American people are paying attention and asking themselves, are we doing everything we can to boost middle-class incomes, ladders of opportunity, and middle-class security.
And if we're doing that, then ultimately I think that we won't get everything done that I want to see done, but we will have shifted away from what I think has been a bad -- a damaging framework in Washington, which is to constantly think about is there more we can do to cut the deficit without asking are we making the right cuts, the smart cuts that actually help people in their own lives and help us grow over the long term.
NYT: Well, in contrast with the jobs plan that's now what you're reflecting today, it's almost two years old now, and which would measurably add to employment the studies show.
MR. OBAMA: Right.
NYT: But in contrast with that, the policies that have been in place since the start of your second term, fiscal policies --
MR. OBAMA: Right, because of the sequester.
NYT: -- that you and Congress agreed to -- right -- and some of the laws -- the payroll tax cut, and the increase in upper-end taxes to some extent -- but all of those things are by any economist's measure a drag on the economy. There's not a day goes by I don't get some analyst saying that -- and that the Fed is pursuing expansionary policies to offset that. How can you -- how are you going to -- what exactly can you do between now and the end of the year to overcome the Republicans' opposition and change that, to end sequester?
MR. OBAMA: Well, let me back up, Jackie. First of all, as the economy got stronger during the course of my presidency, I had always committed to a responsible reduction in the deficit. I think that was the smart thing to do, the right thing to do, and good for our growth. And if we're growing faster, if businesses and the markets have more confidence, then ultimately that benefits middle-class families as well. So I make no apologies for putting forward budgets consistently that, as I had promised, would gradually reduce the deficit.
Now, the sequester I did not want to be in place. When you say I agreed to it, what happened, as you will recall, in 2011 is, is that we had the prospect of either default or a willingness on the part of Republicans and Democrats to spend a year and a half trying to come up with a sensible way to reduce the deficit. The sequester was supposed to be something that was so damaging to the economy that both parties would want to avoid it. The fact that Republicans embraced the sequester as what they consider a win during the course of this year, despite all the damage that they said they wanted to avoid, for example, to our military, is different from me agreeing to the sequester. All right? So that's point number one.
Point number two, every economist will tell you that if we are being smart about growth and we're thinking about jobs and we're thinking about the middle class, but we're also thinking about fiscal responsibility, then what we should be doing is making sure that the drop-off in government spending on vital things like education and infrastructure don't go down too fast, and that rather we look at what the real problem is, which is long-term health care costs.
Because of the Affordable Care Act and a lot of changes that are taking place out there among providers, we're starting to see health care costs slow. That's a positive. If we can build on that, then we can capture the same amount of savings that we're capturing through the sequester and use those to make sure that we're not cutting vital investments that I talked about today, and we can help middle-class families.
Now, I think there are probably going to be 15 different ways for you guys to ask me the same question, which is, ''But there's Congress.'' (Laughter.) More specifically, ''There's the House Republicans, and what are you going to do about that?''
NYT: Who are still embracing sequestration and who are still willing to use the debt limit to go to the mat.
MR. OBAMA: Well, this is what they say. On the other hand, we also have a number of very thoughtful and sensible Republicans over in the Senate who have said that we should not play brinksmanship, that we should come up with a long-term plan. I met with a couple of House Republicans over the last several weeks who would like to see that happen. They're not the loudest voices in the room at the moment.
And part of what I'd like to see over the next several weeks is, if we're having a conversation that's framed as how are we growing the economy, how are we strengthening the middle class, how are we putting people back to work, how are we making college more affordable, how are we bringing manufacturing back -- the answer to those questions I think force a different result than if we are constantly asking ourselves how can we cut the deficit more, faster, sooner.
NYT: Have you yielded anything from your outreach to Republicans? And do you still have hope for a 10-year deal by the end of the year?
MR. OBAMA: I think it's still possible. There are certainly Republicans who are deeply concerned about the effects of sequester. It's been interesting -- I've talked to a number of them who are from deeply red states, consider themselves very conservative, who say it doesn't make sense for us to cut discretionary spending more; it doesn't make sense for us to cut education further -- because they're seeing the impacts in their districts. Certainly there are a bunch of Republicans who say for us to hollow out our military as steeply, drastically as we're doing if sequester stays in place for next year makes no sense.
So if the American people have confidence that there's a path that will grow the economy faster, put more people back to work, that doesn't involve massive new federal spending programs, but instead just make sure that we're investing in the right things, and if we're being attentive to debt and deficits over a 20, 30-year time horizon, then potentially some of those Republicans start giving voice to their concerns a little more loudly than they're doing right now.
But one of the challenges, as I said in the speech, is that there's almost a kneejerk habit right now that if I'm for it, then they've got to be against it. And I think there are a lot of Republicans who are frustrated by that, because they want to be for something, not just against something. But they've got to work through that pattern that's developed over the last couple of years.
NYT: A couple of slightly different topics. On the economy, the Fed is obviously an important player. You've got a big decision ahead of yourself in terms of the chairman. What are you looking for in a chairman? And there were reports yesterday that you are very close to naming Larry Summers as the new Fed chairman. True?
MR. OBAMA: I have not made a final decision. I've narrowed it down to some extraordinarily qualified candidates.
NYT: Do you want to say who?
MR. OBAMA: No. (Laughter.)
NYT: I tried.
MR. OBAMA: And what I'm looking for is somebody who understands the Fed has a dual mandate, that that's not just lip service; that it is very important to keep inflation in check, to keep our dollar sound, and to ensure stability in the markets. But the idea is not just to promote those things in the abstract. The idea is to promote those things in service of the lives of ordinary Americans getting better.
And when unemployment is still too high, and long-term unemployment is still too high, and there's still weak demand in a lot of industries, I want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, let's make sure that we're growing the economy, but let's also keep an eye on inflation, and if it starts heating up, if the markets start frothing up, let's make sure that we're not creating new bubbles.
NYT: And do you have a timeline in mind for announcing that?
MR. OBAMA: I think you can anticipate that over the next several months, an announcement will be made.
Ben Bernanke, by the way, has done a fine job as Fed chairman. And when you look at Ben Bernanke's testimony, not just last week but over the last couple of years, what he's consistently said is right now, our priority needs to be growing the economy faster and strengthening incomes for ordinary Americans. If we do that, our deficits come down because we're bringing in more revenue. If we do that, it becomes easier for us to handle the long-term fiscal challenges.
And one of the interesting things that we don't talk about enough is the contrast between what's happened in the United States and what's happened in a lot of other developing countries, Europe in particular. It's pretty rare where we have the chance to look at two policy approaches and follow them over several years and see which one worked. And the fact is there are a lot of European countries who followed the prescription that the House Republicans are calling for right now, and not only have they lagged well below where we've gone in terms of growth, in many cases their debt and their deficits have actually gone up because their economy is still effectively in recession. And although we haven't been growing as fast as we would like, we have consistently outperformed those countries that followed the recipe that the House Republicans are offering right now.
Now, I'm more sympathetic to those European countries because they, in some cases, didn't have a choice. They don't have the dominant world currency. They don't have people who want to invest in their countries the way folks around the world still want to invest in ours. But in some ways, we've got evidence here. This is not an abstract argument. We know what's needed to make our economy grow right now. And if we grow our economy, and middle-class families are doing better, and housing prices are stronger, and young people are starting families of their own and they're jobs at good wages, that's the thing that will bring deficits down the fastest.
NYT: A couple other quick subjects that are economic-related. Keystone pipeline -- Republicans especially talk about that as a big job creator. You've said that you would approve it only if you could be assured it would not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon in the atmosphere. Is there anything that Canada could do or the oil companies could do to offset that as a way of helping you to reach that decision?
MR. OBAMA: Well, first of all, Michael, Republicans have said that this would be a big jobs generator. There is no evidence that that's true. And my hope would be that any reporter who is looking at the facts would take the time to confirm that the most realistic estimates are this might create maybe 2,000 jobs during the construction of the pipeline -- which might take a year or two -- and then after that we're talking about somewhere between 50 and 100 [chuckles] jobs in a economy of 150 million working people.
NYT: Yet there are a number of unions who want you to approve this.
MR. OBAMA: Well, look, they might like to see 2,000 jobs initially. But that is a blip relative to the need.
So what we also know is, is that that oil is going to be piped down to the Gulf to be sold on the world oil markets, so it does not bring down gas prices here in the United States. In fact, it might actually cause some gas prices in the Midwest to go up where currently they can't ship some of that oil to world markets.
Now, having said that, there is a potential benefit for us integrating further with a reliable ally to the north our energy supplies. But I meant what I said; I'm going to evaluate this based on whether or not this is going to significantly contribute to carbon in our atmosphere. And there is no doubt that Canada at the source in those tar sands could potentially be doing more to mitigate carbon release.
NYT: And if they did, could that offset the concerns about the pipeline itself?
MR. OBAMA: We haven't seen specific ideas or plans. But all of that will go into the mix in terms of John Kerry's decision or recommendation on this issue.
NYT: And then -- I'll let Jackie go -- but on the employer mandate, I don't think you've been asked the question directly why you made the decision to delay it, and whether, given your criticism of President Bush over the years for potentially exceeding his executive authority, there's been a lot of folks out there on the Republican side who claim that somehow you've exceeded your authority on this. Is there anything to that?
MR. OBAMA: Well, this was a very practical decision that actually doesn't go to the heart of us implementing the Affordable Care Act. The majority of employers in this country provide health insurance to their employees. And the number of employers who are potentially subject to the employer mandate is relatively small.
The way the law was originally written, it did not take into account the fact that we don't necessarily need to load up the vast majority of companies that are already doing the right thing with a bunch of additional paperwork; are there simpler ways for us to allow them to certify that they're providing health insurance? And if they do that, then the purpose, the spirit of the law is met, and we can concentrate on the few bad actors who are unwilling to provide health insurance to their employees even though they can afford it, and they're relatively large employers.
And businesses came to us and said, listen, we were supportive of providing health insurance to employees, in fact, we provide health insurance to our employees; we understand you want to get at the bad actors here, but are there ways to provide us some administrative relief? And what we said was, given that that is not critical to standing up the marketplaces where people are going to actually be able to buy lower-cost, high-quality insurance and get the tax credits that make it affordable for them, we thought it made sense to give another year not only for companies to prepare, but also for us to work with Treasury and others to see if there are just ways we can make this a little bit simpler for companies who are already doing the right thing.
This is the kind of routine modifications or tweaks to a large program that's starting off that in normal times in a normal political atmosphere would draw a yawn from everybody. The fact that something like this generates a frenzy on Republicans is consistent with the fact that they've voted to repeal this thing 38 times without offering a alternative that is plausible. And from what I understand, based on recent reporting, they've just given up on offering an alternative.
So essentially -- their central economic plan that they're currently presenting involves making sure that 50 million Americans cannot get health insurance; that people with preexisting conditions are potentially locked out of the market; that the rebates that people have received from insurance companies are sent back; that young people who are right now on their parents' plan because they're 26 or under, that they suddenly don't have health insurance. I do not understand the argument that that somehow grows the economy or strengthens the middle class.
And during the course of implementation, are there going to be some glitches? Are there going to be some complaints from employers who are still trying to figure it out and may not know what subsidies are available to them? Absolutely. Are there some folks who may say, we're going to try to figure out ways not to provide health insurance to our employees? Yes. But that's a small proportion of our overall economy, and the principle that everybody should be able to get health insurance is one that the vast majority of Americans agree with.
NYT: People questioned your legal and constitutional authority to do that unilaterally -- to delay the employer mandate. Did you consult with your lawyer?
MR. OBAMA: Jackie, if you heard me on stage today, what I said was that I will seize any opportunity I can find to work with Congress to strengthen the middle class, improve their prospects, improve their security --
NYT: No, but specifically --
MR. OBAMA: -- but where Congress is unwilling to act, I will take whatever administrative steps that I can in order to do right by the American people.
And if Congress thinks that what I've done is inappropriate or wrong in some fashion, they're free to make that case. But there's not an action that I take that you don't have some folks in Congress who say that I'm usurping my authority. Some of those folks think I usurp my authority by having the gall to win the presidency. And I don't think that's a secret. But ultimately, I'm not concerned about their opinions -- very few of them, by the way, are lawyers, much less constitutional lawyers.
I am concerned about the folks who I spoke to today who are working really hard, are trying to figure out how they can send their kids to college, are trying to make sure that they can save for their retirement. And if I can take steps on their behalf, then I'm going to do so. And I would hope that more and more of Congress will say, you know what, since that's our primary focus, we're willing to work with you to advance those ideals. But I'm not just going to sit back if the only message from some of these folks is no on everything, and sit around and twiddle my thumbs for the next 1,200 days.
NYT: Polls this week have shown your health care law has lost support. What are you going to be doing to build support?
MR. OBAMA: We're going to implement it.
NYT: Are you going to be getting out on the road?
MR. OBAMA: Here is what will build support, given that we've been outspent four to one from the other side with all kinds of distortions about health care. Here is what we're going to do to beat back that misinformation. On October 1st, people are going to be able to start signing up. And if right now they're buying insurance on the individual market, they're going to get on those computers or they're going to make a phone call to one of these call centers and they're going to find out that they can save 20 percent, 30 percent, or 50 percent on their premiums. And people who have not been able to get insurance before are going to be able to finally get insurance. And people who lose their jobs in the interim and find out that they've got a preexisting condition, it's hard for them to get insurance or they can't afford COBRA, they're going to have a place to go.
And over the course of six months to a year, as people sign up, and it works, and lo and behold, the people who already have health insurance are not being impacted at all other than the fact that their insurance is more secure and they are getting free preventive care, and all the nightmare scenarios and the train wrecks and the ''sky is falling'' predictions that come from the other side do not happen, then health care will become more popular.
But until then, when we're getting outspent four to one and people are just uncertain about what all this means for them, we're going to continue to have some polls like that. And me just making more speeches explaining it in and of itself won't do it. The test of this is going to be is it working. And if it works, it will be pretty darn popular.
NYT: March on Washington coming up soon. Are you going to do anything to mark it? Are you planning on being a part of the 50th anniversary?
MR. OBAMA: Absolutely. It's obviously a historic, seminal event in the country. It's part of my generation's formative memory and it's a good time for us to do some reflection. Obviously, after the Trayvon Martin case, a lot of people have been thinking about race, but I always remind people -- and, in fact, I have a copy of the original program in my office, framed -- that that was a march for jobs and justice; that there was a massive economic component to that.
When you think about the coalition that brought about civil rights, it wasn't just folks who believed in racial equality; it was people who believed in working folks having a fair shot. It was Walter Reuther and the UAW coming down here because they understood that if there are some workers who are not getting a fair deal then ultimately that's going to undercut their ability to get a fair deal. And if there's one thing that I wanted to try to emphasize today in this speech, it is that America has always worked better when everybody has a chance to succeed.
I had a conversation a couple of weeks back with a guy named Robert Putnam, who I've known for a long time.
NYT: He was my professor actually at Harvard.
MR. OBAMA: Right. I actually knew Bob when I was a state senator and he had put together this seminar to just talk about some of the themes that he had written about in ''Bowling Alone,'' the weakening of the community fabric and the impact it's having on people.
And the work he's doing right now has to do with this issue of inequality. And it applies to a city like Galesburg, where 30 years ago, anybody in this town who wanted to find a job, they could go get a job. They could go get it at the Maytag plant. They could go get it with the railroad. It might be hard work, it might be tough work, but they could buy a house with it.
The kids here all went to the same school -- the banker's kid and the guy working at the Maytag plant's going to the same school. They've got the same social support. College is affordable for all of them. They don't have to take out $100,000 of debt to do it. And there was a sense of not upward mobility in the abstract; it was part and parcel of who we were as Americans. And that's what's been eroding over the last 20, 30 years, well before the financial crisis.
Now, the financial crisis made things a lot worse. And so I had to spend the first four years in my presidency getting us back to ground level. We had to make sure the banking system wasn't collapsing. We had to make sure the auto industry didn't collapse. We had to make sure that we put people back to work short term and boosted demand until the markets got going and consumers got more confident and housing started to recover.
And so here we are, having dealt with this massive crisis, but those trends -- that erosion of what a Galesburg or a [Port]* Clinton, Ohio, where Bob Putnam lived -- those trends have continued.
And that's what people sense. That's why people are anxious. That's why people are frustrated. That's what they talk to me about and that's what they write to me about: ''I'm doing okay right now, but what I've seen over the last 20 years and what I learned profoundly during this crisis is that the ground under my feet just isn't as secure, and that the work I'm doing may not be rewarded.'' And everything that I am proposing and everything I will be proposing over the next three years goes right at that issue. And if that's not what Washington's talking about, then we will be missing the boat.
And racial tensions won't get better; they may get worse, because people will feel as if they've got to compete with some other group to get scraps from a shrinking pot. If the economy is growing, everybody feels invested. Everybody feels as if we're rolling in the same direction. And so a lot of the other issues that we're talking about -- whether it's climate change or immigration, or how we manage our trade relations -- all those are eased if we've got our economic act together.
But that's not what we talk about. And it's true that Congress moves at such a glacial pace these days that sometimes if you start a bill like immigration and you're thinking this should be done by now, it seems to take a year of folks just sitting around spinning their wheels, that can be frustrating. But we should be able to attend to some of these other issues even as we're staying focused on this central issue. That's at least what I'm going to be doing.
NYT: Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. OBAMA: Thanks, guys. Appreciate you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FAMILY (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



823 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: President Says Income Gap Is Fraying U.S. Social Fabric

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
GALESBURG, Ill. -- In a week when he tried to focus attention on the struggles of the middle class, President Obama said in an interview that he was worried that years of widening income inequality and the lingering effects of the financial crisis had frayed the country's social fabric and undermined Americans' belief in opportunity.
Upward mobility, Mr. Obama said in a 40-minute interview with The New York Times, ''was part and parcel of who we were as Americans.''
''And that's what's been eroding over the last 20, 30 years, well before the financial crisis,'' he added. 
''If we don't do anything, then growth will be slower than it should be. Unemployment will not go down as fast as it should. Income inequality will continue to rise,'' he said. ''That's not a future that we should accept.''
A few days after the acquittal in the Trayvon Martin case prompted him to speak about being a black man in America, Mr. Obama said the country's struggle over race would not be eased until the political process in Washington began addressing the fear of many people that financial stability is unattainable.
''Racial tensions won't get better; they may get worse, because people will feel as if they've got to compete with some other group to get scraps from a shrinking pot,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If the economy is growing, everybody feels invested. Everybody feels as if we're rolling in the same direction.''
Mr. Obama, who this fall will choose a new chairman of the Federal Reserve to share economic stewardship, expressed confidence that the trends could be reversed with the right policies.
The economy is ''far stronger'' than four years ago, he said, yet many people who write to him still do not feel secure about their future, even as their current situation recovers.
''That's what people sense,'' he said. ''That's why people are anxious. That's why people are frustrated.''
During much of the interview, Mr. Obama was philosophical about historical and economic forces that he said were tearing at communities across the country. He noted at one point that he has in the Oval Office a framed copy of the original program from the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom 50 years ago, when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his ''I Have a Dream'' speech.
He uses it, he said, to remind people ''that was a march for jobs and justice; that there was a massive economic component to that. When you think about the coalition that brought about civil rights, it wasn't just folks who believed in racial equality. It was people who believed in working folks having a fair shot.''
For decades after, Mr. Obama said, in places like Galesburg people ''who wanted to find a job -- they could go get a job.''
''They could go get it at the Maytag plant,'' he said. ''They could go get it with the railroad. It might be hard work, it might be tough work, but they could buy a house with it.''
Without a shift in Washington to encourage growth over ''damaging'' austerity, he added, not only would the middle class shrink, but in turn, contentious issues like trade, climate change and immigration could become harder to address.
Striking a feisty note at times, he vowed not to be cowed by his Republican adversaries in Congress and said he was willing to stretch the limits of his powers to change the direction of the debate in Washington.
''I will seize any opportunity I can find to work with Congress to strengthen the middle class, improve their prospects, improve their security,'' Mr. Obama said. But he added, ''I'm not just going to sit back if the only message from some of these folks is no on everything, and sit around and twiddle my thumbs for the next 1,200 days.''
Addressing for the first time one of his most anticipated decisions, Mr. Obama said he had narrowed his choice to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve to ''some extraordinary candidates.'' With current fiscal policy measurably slowing the recovery, many in business and finance have looked to the Fed to continue its expansionary monetary policies to offset the drag.
Mr. Obama said he wanted someone who would not just work abstractly to keep inflation in check and ensure stability in the markets. ''The idea is to promote those things in service of the lives of ordinary Americans getting better,'' he said. ''I want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, Let's make sure that we're growing the economy.''
The leading Fed candidates are believed to be Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Obama's former White House economic adviser and President Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary, and Janet Yellen, the current Fed vice chairwoman and another former Clinton official. The president said he would announce his choice ''over the next several months.''
More clearly than he did in three speeches on the economy last week -- the next is scheduled for Tuesday in Chattanooga, Tenn. -- Mr. Obama in the interview called for an end to the emphasis on budget austerity that Republicans ushered in when they captured control of the House in November 2010.
The priority, he said, should be spending for infrastructure, education, clean energy, science, research and other domestic initiatives of the sort he twice campaigned on.
''I want to make sure that all of us in Washington are investing as much time, as much energy, as much debate on how we grow the economy and grow the middle class as we've spent over the last two to three years arguing about how we reduce the deficits,'' Mr. Obama said. He called for a shift ''away from what I think has been a damaging framework in Washington.''
The president did not say what his legislative strategy would be. Even as he spoke, House Republicans were pushing measures in the opposite direction: to continue into the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1 the indiscriminate across-the-board spending reductions -- known as sequestration -- that Mr. Obama opposes, and to cut his priorities deeper still.
Republicans are also threatening to block an increase in the government's borrowing limit -- an action that must be taken by perhaps November to avoid financial crisis -- unless Congress withholds money for his health care law.
Mr. Obama all but dared Republicans to challenge his executive actions, including his decision three weeks ago to delay until 2015 the health care law's mandate that large employers provide insurance or pay fines. Republicans and some legal scholars questioned whether he had the legal authority to unilaterally change the law.
The delay in the employer mandate, which mostly affects large businesses that already insure workers but are worried about federal reporting requirements, was ''the kind of routine modifications or tweaks to a large program that's starting off that in normal times in a normal political atmosphere would draw a yawn from everybody,'' Mr. Obama said.
''If Congress thinks that what I've done is inappropriate or wrong in some fashion, they're free to make that case,'' he said. ''But there's not an action that I take that you don't have some folks in Congress who say that I'm usurping my authority. Some of those folks think I usurp my authority by having the gall to win the presidency.''
The president's latest campaign for his agenda began as national polls last week showed a dip in his public support. The declines were even greater for Congress and Republicans in particular, in their already record-low ratings.
Mr. Obama said he would push ahead with a series of speeches that lay out his agenda ahead of the fights this fall with Congress. ''If once a week I'm not talking about jobs, the economy, and the middle class,'' he said, ''then all matter of distraction fills the void.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''If the economy is growing, everybody feels invested,'' President Obama said in an interview last week in Galesburg, Ill. ''Everybody feels as if we're rolling in the same direction.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (92%); INTERVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



824 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1919 words

HEADLINE: Mostly Mozart, Mostly Improved

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
A dozen years ago the Mostly Mozart Festival epitomized much of what was wrong with the tradition-bound ways of classical music.
Certainly, a powerhouse institution like Lincoln Center, in America's cultural capital, could come up with something fresher each summer than a calcified festival offering listlessly played performances of boring programs under the banner of Mozart.
In 2002, the musicians of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra called a strike over job security. Lincoln Center immediately canceled all 20 concerts the ensemble was scheduled to perform. The institution seemed poised to jettison the orchestra and turn future festivals over to the visiting ensembles that had been outplaying the hometown band for years. 
Today, however, Mostly Mozart, which opens on Tuesday with a concert by the festival orchestra at Avery Fisher Hall, is thriving. Jane Moss is its boastful artistic director. She and the dynamic French conductor Louis Langrée, the festival's music director since late 2002, who is credited with rejuvenating the orchestra, have found the right balance between honoring the Mozart brand and implementing innovative initiatives. Back in the dull days, who could have imagined that Mostly Mozart would have the members of the brilliant International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE, for short) as risk-taking artists in residence? This once-hopeless festival has become an unlikely model of change. Of course, the issues facing America's full-time symphony orchestras are more complex than what this four-week summer festival has had to cope with. Still, there are things to be learned from Mostly Mozart by institutions everywhere.
I should not overstate the boldness of the festival, which remains a big-institution series built around a tried-and-true namesake. This year, the offerings include a major celebration of Beethoven, which is not exactly daring.
Still, once Mr. Langrée was brought in, the festival directors embraced a set of forward-looking common-sense principles that enabled them to inject new purpose into the festival without rejecting its identity. It's important to put the festival in the larger context of the challenges facing classical music. The field is facing enormous problems, not just external economic pressures and seemingly daily news reports about the bankruptcy of opera companies and symphonies, but also internal habits that keep institutions clinging to outmoded ways of presenting the art form.
Many smart commentators argue that only complete reinvention will avert looming crises. Yet the success of Mostly Mozart in recent years shows that significant transformation is possible without going all radical.
In June, the flutist Claire Chase, a co-founder of ICE, gave the convocation address to a class of graduating students from Northwestern University's Bienen School of Music. She argued that the challenges classical music is grappling with are actually empowering a new generation to fresh modes of creativity, including ICE, which she described as a ''new model for a new century: a contemporary, innovative, modular, artist-driven organization that transforms ideas into new music and new music into new ideas.''
This is all true and immensely exciting. Still, the groundswell of entrepreneurial energy Ms. Chase celebrates is emanating up from the ranks of new young musicians. It is harder for the top-down, established institutions to embrace the new innovative ethos.
Mostly Mozart shows that it can be done. It did not invent any of the principles that pulled them out of stagnation. They simply embraced them, beginning with:
Artistic Leadership Is Everything
No institution or ensemble will thrive in these new times without visionary musicians at the helm. Mr. Langrée arrived on the job with enhanced authority to make personnel changes. He found the players, over all, experienced and skilled. They were just demoralized. So he was able to infuse energy into the ensemble without making that many changes to the roster, in part by enlivening the programming and mixing diverse works and contemporary music into the offerings.
This brings up another obvious principle that the festival adopted:
New Music Fosters New Vitality
If classical music is going to be a living, breathing art form, then living, breathing composers, and young musicians who are excited about those composers, have to be a full part of any enterprise, even when Mozart is the brand name of a festival. When Mr. Langrée was recruited, he was primarily known for his outstanding work in the early music movement, a credential that made him a good fit.
To his credit, he has fully supported Ms. Moss's efforts to make living composers and new-music ensembles essential to the series. This summer the festival orchestra is performing eight programs, most of them two times each. ICE is presenting seven programs of its own, including the New York premiere of ''the whisper opera,'' a recent work by David Lang, a Pulitzer winner. This chamber opera for soprano and four instruments is described as exploring the tension between what we hide and what we reveal. The ICE programs take place in the intimate Clark Studio Theater, and ticket availability for the four performances of Mr. Lang's work is already, alas, limited.
Still, there is an upside to putting on concerts in this space, which brings up another principle of programming:
Smaller Is Better
I have come to believe that potential new audiences for classical music are put off because too many concert and recital halls, let alone opera houses, are too big. This is a particular impediment to chamber music, which, as the genre's name implies, is music meant for a small space. In that sense, the Clark Studio is an exciting place to hear close-up performances of contemporary works.
One of the most successful manifestations of the smaller-is-better principle in recent years has been A Little Night Music, Mostly Mozart's series of late-night (starting at 10) performances in the Kaplan Penthouse. The programs last about an hour. The audience of about 230 is seated at small, round cocktail tables. There is free wine, and nightclub lighting. Tickets go fast for these events.
There is something about the cozy setting, the late hour and the informality that completely hooks listeners. Last summer, the adventurous and excellent Israeli pianist David Greilsammer enthralled an audience at the penthouse with a program that juxtaposed Baroque works, two pensive and episodic Mozart scores and several audacious contemporary pieces, played without pause.
The series this summer, with six programs, kicks off on Wednesday night with the probing and elegant French pianist Jean-Efflam Bavouzet playing Book II of Debussy's Preludes. Earlier that evening he will be the soloist with the Mostly Mozart orchestra in Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto at Avery Fisher Hall. So you can attend the orchestra concert, and then trail Mr. Bavouzet across the plaza to the penthouse for wine and Debussy.
The whole field of classical music has to think long and hard about this smaller-is-better business. Lincoln Center can cover the expense of programs for a couple of hundred people. But for the small performance spaces and clubs that have been springing up in New York, like Le Poisson Rouge in Greenwich Village, which champions contemporary music, the finances are difficult.
The way around it is that musicians who perform at Le Poisson Rouge usually earn only a portion of what the house takes in, though the exposure to new, eager, younger audiences is invaluable to their careers. We have to find ways to keep these ventures going because it is thrilling to see audiences so palpably excited to be hearing music in intimate settings.
Give Opportunities to Emerging Artists
Another operating principle of Mostly Mozart since Ms. Moss took charge has involved making a conscious effort to attract and present young talent, especially conductors. In 2008, the French conductor Lionel Bringuier, then 21, made an impressive New York debut conducting the Mostly Mozart orchestra. This spring, he conducted the New York Philharmonic splendidly. He is now heading to the Tonhalle-Orchestra in Zurich.
And Pablo Heras-Casado, 35, the thinking person's idea of a hotshot young conductor, now the exciting principal conductor of the Orchestra of St. Luke's, led an impressive program with the Mostly Mozart orchestra in 2010. This coming season, the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic are catching up with this fast-rising artist: Mr. Heras-Casado will make debuts with both institutions.
One problem with the Philharmonic under Kurt Masur was its slowness in engaging young conductors. When it came time to search for Mr. Masur's replacement, many exciting candidates among the new generation either had not yet made their Philharmonic debuts or had not conducted the orchestra enough for their potential to be assessed. So we wound up with another imposing maestro in his 70s: Lorin Maazel.
Encircle the Orchestra
When Lincoln Center finally proceeds with the planned renovation of Avery Fisher Hall (though the plans seem as vague as ever), the institution will have Mostly Mozart to thank for coming up with the likely template for a new design.
In 2005, to draw audiences into the performances and compensate for the hall's acoustics, which many people find dull, the festival extended the stage with a platform over the first 11 rows of seats. Two sections of bleachers were set up to the right and left sides of the orchestra. Many great symphonic halls in the world, like the Philharmonie in Berlin and Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, are designed so that the orchestra is nearly surrounded by the audience. The makeshift thrust stage for Mostly Mozart concerts is an attempt to create a similar spatial and sonic environment.
The resulting acoustics, while not a miraculous improvement, are certainly more vibrant. Audiences seem to love being so close to the players. The festival is essentially doing a test-run of a new design for the hall.
And one more thing...
Take Chances
In recent years, Mostly Mozart has taken a chance by mounting staged concert operas. Two summers ago, the exciting Budapest Festival Orchestra, under its formidable conductor Ivan Fischer, presented a stunningly innovative staged concert performance of ''Don Giovanni,'' directed by Mr. Fischer. A roster of 16 young actors, doubling as the chorus, employed body formations to suggest the scenery, linking hands and limbs to become garden groves, stone walls and the lapping flames that subsume Giovanni into eternal damnation. I have not seen many full, fancy productions of the work in opera houses that match the creativity of this one.
If Mostly Mozart has not been radically transformed, it has certainly been enlivened, thanks to some entrepreneurial thinking, even if the changes were driven in part by a sense of desperation a decade ago.
Mozart was something of an entrepreneur. Never a favorite with the establishment in his day, he was a pioneer in the business of concocting opera projects and putting on concerts of his own works. He would be thrilled to see what's going on at Lincoln Center under his name, and not just because Mr. Fischer and the Budapest Festival Orchestra are returning this summer with a performance of ''Le Nozze di Figaro.''
I can imagine Mozart happily sipping wine at the Kaplan Penthouse while hearing a Bach partita for solo violin or being shaken and fascinated by a Thomas Adès string quartet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The French conductor Louis Langrée, Mostly Mozart Festival's music director since 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Louis Langrée, top, leading the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra last year
the Israeli pianist David Greilsammer, above, at Kaplan Penthouse last summer
and Sunhae Im with Riccardo Novaro in a staged version of ''Don Giovanni'' for the festival in 2011
it was directed by Ivan Fischer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Lionel Bringuier, left, made his festival debut in 2008, at age 21
Pablo Heras-Casado, 35, above, led a program with the festival orchestra in 2010. Jean-Efflam Bavouzet, right, on Wednesday will open A Little Night Music, Mostly Mozart's late-night concerts at Kaplan Penthouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD TERMINE) (AR7) . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



825 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Europe and China Agree To Settle Solar Panel Fight

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and KEITH BRADSHER; James Kanter reported from Brussels and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The European Union's trade chief said on Saturday that a deal had been reached with China to settle a dispute over exports of low-cost solar panels that had threatened to set off a wider trade war between two of the world's largest economies.
The settlement essentially involves setting a fairly high minimum price for sales of Chinese-made solar panels in the European Union to try to prevent them from undercutting European producers. Those producers accused Chinese manufacturers of benefiting from enormous loans from state-owned banks and other government assistance that enabled them to charge prices that would otherwise be uneconomical. 
''We have found an amicable solution that will result in a new equilibrium on the European solar panel market at a sustainable price level,'' Karel De Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said in a statement.
The deal immediately met with ferocious criticism from the European manufacturers that had filed the complaint, and it complicates a similar dispute between the United States and China.
Mr. De Gucht's decision in June to carry out his threat to impose tariffs on solar panels from China generated significant fears within the union about retribution from China. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called for further negotiations to avoid harm to German exporters. European importers of solar products from China also opposed the tariffs.
At the time, Mr. De Gucht said he had been left with no choice but to impose the tariffs since his investigators found a systematic effort by Chinese companies to sell solar panels in Europe below the cost of making them, a practice known as dumping.
On Saturday, officials at the European Commission said they could not give details of the deal, including the price that Chinese exporters would pay to sell their panels in Europe, until the arrangement had been formally approved by the commission. But a European Union official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been formally approved, said the two sides had agreed to a minimum price of 0.56 euros per watt (74 cents), which would base any potential surcharge on the amount of electricity generated by each imported panel.
The European solar manufacturers who lobbied for tougher action against the Chinese exporters on Saturday promised to sue over the settlement.
The agreement ''is contrary in every respect to European law,'' said Milan Nitzschke, the president of EU ProSun, an industry group. A minimum price of 0.55 to 0.57 euros was at the level of ''the current dumping price for Chinese modules,'' the group said in a statement.
The arrangement would cover exports from 90 of about 140 Chinese exporters that were examined during the investigation, and that represent 60 percent of the panels sold in Europe, the government official said. Those 90 companies would no longer face tariffs that were put in place in June. Chinese exporters that did not agree to the terms will still face tariffs that are set to rise to 47.6 percent on Aug. 6 from the current level of 11.8 percent, the official said.
The Chinese government hoped from the start of the trade case with the European Union for a negotiated settlement instead of a legal battle. This deal comes as a relief, said He Weiwen, the co-director of the China-United States-European Union Study Center at the China Association of International Trade in Beijing.
The European settlement with Beijing in some ways complicates a similar dispute between the United States and China. The United States Commerce Department imposed final anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs last spring on imports of solar panels from China. China responded on July 18 that it was preparing to impose tariffs of more than 50 percent on polysilicon, the main material for solar panels, on imports from the United States and South Korea.
The United States began trying in early summer to arrange a comprehensive deal among Beijing, Brussels and Washington that would set new global trade arrangements for solar panels in exchange for the removal of the American tariffs and the preliminary European tariffs. But faced with a complex process in the United States for removing tariffs once the Commerce Department has made them final, the European Union pushed ahead with its own negotiations with China, a Senate aide with detailed knowledge of the issue said on Friday.
''The administration has been doing the right thing on this, pushing for talks and trying to get a joint settlement with Europe, but the Europeans have not had the same attitude and instead are pursuing talks with China independently of the U.S., which has stalled progress on U.S.-China talks,'' said the aide, who spoke anonymously because of the diplomatic sensitivity of the issue.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative, which is part of the White House, had no immediate response to the European deal, which was announced shortly before dawn in Washington.
Solar panels represent more than 6 percent of China's exports to the Continent, making them one of the largest Chinese exports to the European Union. In 2011, Chinese exports of panels and their main components to the European Union were worth about 21 billion euros or $27.4 billion.
China grew from a tiny player in the global solar panel market five years ago to the world's dominant producer now through a program of enormous lending by state-owned banks and a wide variety of manufacturing incentives by local and provincial governments. That has allowed Chinese producers to drive down the price of panels by three-quarters over the same period.
But Chinese manufacturers have expanded faster than the market, and the largest of them now face severe financial difficulties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); APPROVALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPE (99%); CHINA (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



826 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Getting Creative With the G.D.P.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
WE have undervalued creativity and research. And despite the hoopla whenever Apple or Google releases a new product, we haven't grasped the full significance of innovation.
That critique wouldn't be surprising if it came from an underappreciated artist, scientist or technologist. But it's being made in what may seem an unexpected quarter: the offices of the federal government. It's the verdict of the experts who measure the American economy.
We live in an increasingly knowledge-based economy, but until now, official statistics haven't adequately captured that reality, particularly in the single number describing the economy's size: the gross domestic product.
That's the view of Steve Landefeld, director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the Commerce Department unit that measures G.D.P. ''We've been trying to understand the sources of growth in the G.D.P.,'' he said. ''One of the longstanding gaps in the numbers has been the contributions of intangibles -- creations in the arts and entertainment, research and development, things like that -- and what they contribute to G.D.P.'' 
This week, the bureau is doing something about it. It plans to give a greater economic weighting to the creation of many types of intellectual property -- from books to movies to music to biotech drugs. The economy won't change overnight, but the numbers will. Going all the way back to 1929, the G.D.P. will look bigger.
This is to take place on Wednesday, when the bureau releases the results of an immense revaluation of the size and composition of the American economy from the Great Depression to the present. It undertakes this exercise every five years or so, altering its methods as the economy and data quality change. Among the bureau's revisions is a change in its treatment of research and development and the creation of what it calls ''entertainment, literary and other artistic originals.''
That category seemed startling when I saw it in a bureau study on intangibles and the economy.
Artistic originals include books, movies, TV shows, music, photographs and greeting cards -- yes, greeting cards. That may seem strange -- it did to me, at first -- but bear with me.
Copies of an original card that is designed today can still be sold a year or more from now. In that sense, a greeting card is like a building or a machine tool or computer software -- it's a capital investment that can generate revenue for years to come. Items that fit the bureau's economic definitions will be given a bigger weight in G.D.P. calculations. They will be considered assets -- capital investments rather than expenses -- and the cost of producing them will be added to G.D.P. In addition, the revenue generated by the cards will be included in G.D.P. later on, when the money flows in.
Money generally needs to change hands for creative work to be considered an investment. Unpaid authors still won't count as contributors to the G.D.P. Yet in 2007, the accounting change would have added roughly $9 billion to G.D.P. from book-writing alone, a preliminary bureau study found.
That may bolster the self-esteem of some writers, but it will do nothing for those of us who write for newspapers, magazines, blogs and the like. A newspaper column has no enduring value, from the bureau's pecuniary perspective.
That made for an awkward moment in a conversation with Robert Kornfeld, a bureau economist. He assured me that he wasn't making a literary judgment. It's simply that daily journalism is perishable, he said. It's not worth much commercially a year after it's published. In the new digital world, a column might turn into an e-book with long shelf life, and the bureau might be able to embrace it. ''Who knows?'' he said. ''We re-evaluate these things all the time.''
Work in other creative fields is being excluded from the investment category, too, and for similar reasons. ''Seinfeld'' has long-term commercial value, he said. ''Monday Night Football'' does not, at least not in the new calculations. TV sitcoms and dramas generally count as investments. Soap operas, reality shows and sports do not.
The big picture is this: Recalculating the treatment of all ''artistic originals'' that fit the bureau's definitions would have increased the economy in 2007 by about $70 billion, or 0.5 percent. And R.& D., particularly in the field of biotechnology, would have added more than $200 billion. Combined, these two changes would have swelled G.D.P. by almost 3 percent, Mr. Kornfeld said. How it will affect G.D.P. this year and in the restatement of past numbers was being calculated as we spoke. Brent R. Moulton, the bureau's associate director for national accounts, said the statistics would be out this week. He noted that other nations had been making such shifts as well.
The changes could have profound implications. R.& D. and the creation of entertainment originals have generally been treated as a cost of doing business, reducing G.D.P. Now they will be recognized for their potential to add economic value for years to come. Business software has been treated this way since the 1990s. ''It makes sense to expand our definitions,'' Mr. Landefeld said. ''That's something the bureau has done for decades.''
But the bureau's changes will widen the gap between corporate and national economic accounting, said Baruch Lev, a professor of accounting and finance at New York University. Despite the change in G.D.P. accounting, he said, R.& D. is still generally treated as an expense, not as an investment, in calculating profits and tax liability.
''National accounting -- G.D.P. accounting -- is giving us a more accurate picture of the world,'' he said, adding that various intangibles might constitute as much as 50 percent of the value of publicly traded companies. These assets don't show up on corporate balance sheets, he said, keeping investors ''in the dark about the true value of many of the companies traded in the stock market.''
THE bureau is still in the dark about many things, too. It doesn't know the commercial value of a new movie or of esoteric R.& D. in biotechnology, Mr. Landefeld said. ''Some of these things succeed, some fail, some have no enduring value; we don't make a judgment,'' he said.
When George Lucas made the first ''Star Wars'' movie in the 1970s, for example, no one knew that it would generate hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue in a stream that continues to this day. Should it have been considered an investment? It could easily have bombed.
''From the standpoint of accounting, we wouldn't care,'' Mr. Landefeld said. The bureau is tallying the production costs of movies, blockbusters and clunkers alike, adding them as assets to the G.D.P. in the years when they were made. The revenue they bring in later will be counted, too.
''Some movies are forgettable; some aren't,'' he said. ''We'll average that out and get the big picture and we hope it will give us a better understanding of the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Production costs of films -- including ''Star Wars,'' featuring Chewbacca -- will now be counted in the gross domestic product. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); LITERATURE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); MUSIC (70%); STATISTICS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



827 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Want World Domination? Size Matters

BYLINE: By RICHARD N. ROSECRANCE. 
An adjunct professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and the author of ''The Resurgence of the West: How a Trans-Atlantic Union Can Prevent War and Restore the United States and Europe.''

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- HORACE GREELEY, Napoleon Bonaparte and Cecil Rhodes may seem strange bedfellows, but they all agreed that territorial, political and economic size was critical to a country's success. They wanted more land -- in the West, in Europe or overseas. In 1904, Halford Mackinder, an Oxford geographer, told an august assemblage at the Royal Geographical Society that the country that controlled the Russian ''heartland,'' a frostbitten Central Asian steppe, would dominate ''the world island'' -- the combined territory of Europe and North Asia -- and in time come to rule the world. A centrally located piece of territory like the Russian plain, Mackinder argued, could be expanded West and East without the need for naval power.
As it turned out, Russia was then facing both war and revolution, and could not fully control the heartland, to say nothing of ruling the entire world. But Mackinder's terms pointed to the critical role of territorial and economic size in the competition among nations. 
Without quoting Mackinder, President Obama and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany have recently sought to form a huge free-trade zone that would join Europe with the United States in a new Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, creating an economic power with nearly half of the world's gross domestic product. On June 19, alongside Ms. Merkel in Berlin, Mr. Obama declared that Europe and the United States were the ''engine of the global economy'' and that they should ''see ourselves as something bigger'' in the global quest for freedom, justice and peace.
Of course, the joining of the two continents would increase trade and employment. It would facilitate Mr. Obama's goal of doubling American exports and increasing investment and consumption. Ms. Merkel would smile as German cars and medical equipment poured into American markets, and Washington would return the favor with microprocessors, biotechnical devices and liquid natural gas. If the deal is concluded next year as planned, economists estimate the creation at least one million jobs over 10 years, and a 0.5 percent increase in G.D.P., on both sides of the Atlantic. The new pact would draw together 259 of the Fortune 500 companies. Investment flows and tourism would bubble to new heights.
But the underlying reason for bridging the narrowing ''Atlantic Channel'' is that power is shifting east, and there is a need to reconsolidate the West. Paradoxically, closer ties with Europe will be the means by which Mr. Obama carries out his ''pivot to Asia'' as America and Germany bring together advanced industries and a vast population of skilled workers.
In the short term, China will respond (and has already responded) to this trans-Atlantic combination by strengthening its ties with the outside world. While dumping dollars and buying euros, China has sought to turn its American bond holdings into shares in American corporations. It has moved into London's money markets and invested heavily throughout Africa. None of this has created an alternative political unit, however.
Countries like Sudan, Zimbabwe, Myanmar and North Korea will never be pillars of a new international economic order. There is no looming political or economic counterweight to the West's assembly of democratic nations, which earlier this month embraced Croatia as the European Union's 28th member.
Mr. Obama's and Ms. Merkel's pursuit of greater democratic size is not a new objective. Strategists have always known that countries with more people, wealth and economic space can produce more and trade over a larger region. Worldwide tariff cuts have failed; what could be more appropriate than for Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel to seek the largest alternative place in which to trade freely, thus stimulating their industries in competition with rising Eastern nations?
The strategists of the postwar era reached similar conclusions. The State Department's legendary policy planning chiefs George F. Kennan and Paul H. Nitze recognized that ''a combination of the physical resources of Russia and China with the technical skills and machine tools of Germany and the Eastern European countries might spell a military reality more powerful than anything that could be mobilized against it.'' Thus began the patient accumulation of allied nations into what became the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which was buttressed by the economically consolidating European Common Market and then the European Union.
Under Mikhail S. Gorbachev and particularly Boris N. Yeltsin, Russia wanted to join the West and the European Union. The 1996 election led some to believe that Moscow could eventually become an approximation of Western democracy. When Vladimir V. Putin succeeded Yeltsin, however, this dream vanished as former K.G.B. agents came to dominate. And when oil prices rose, abundant energy supplies allowed Russia to conclude that it didn't need the West, nor did it need to be democratic.
Finally, victory in the cold war stemmed from a Western agglomeration of decisive economic and industrial strength. It was not an equality of power that brought the Soviet Union to heel, but a surplus of power, or an ''overbalance'' in the hands of the West.
THIS is not a declaration of economic war against the East. Rather, it reflects an awareness that China and others need to be brought into the West, bringing two halves of the world together. A greater American and European combination would amass $32 trillion today and much more tomorrow. A balance of power leads to conflict. But an overbalance attracts others to its economic core.
And China is dependent on that core. Unlike Russia, China must import the majority of its oil, and its use is currently at 9.7 million barrels a day. The money to buy this petroleum and natural gas must come from exports, mainly exports to the West. Here the West maintains a continuing advantage, because China receives only about 50 percent of the ''value added'' of its exports. The rest is garnered by European and American companies, which provide the research and development, design, marketing and financing for most products exported from China.
For decades to come, China will have to sell in the West to gain money and access to technologies that it doesn't yet possess. The consolidation of a Euro-American economic unit will require China to join, too, as it becomes a more open, liberal and rule-governed polity.
Skeptics will argue that this is just an incremental enhancement of an already strong relationship and that the West could draw China in without this new trade deal. But America has tried and failed. It tried to form a bilateral bloc with China, the G-2, in 2009, but China's leaders refused and frustrated Mr. Obama's plans to cooperate on addressing climate change. It was clear that America would need a stronger West to get China's attention. The key advantage of a new trade partnership with Europe is that it has a strong political and security foundation. It will be a peaceful but powerful alliance will add elements of technology, military strength and political will to resuscitate the West in its dealings with the rest of the world.
In the end, trade -- not war -- will attract others to the West's economic core.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY TIM LAHAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); NATURAL GAS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); ASIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



828 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Trending: A QE2 Hotel May Ply the Waters

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HEYMAN

 BODY:
It's been a nerve-racking few years for admirers of the Queen Elizabeth 2, one of the world's most storied ocean liners. In 2007, the QE2 was purchased for $100 million by one of Dubai's state-owned investment companies, which moved it to the Persian Gulf with plans to transform the ship into a floating Jumeirah hotel. Then the financial crisis hit, stalling the project. 
As recently as December, reports suggested that the venerable Cunard ship, which had ferried millions across the Atlantic in its proud 40-year history, was bound for the scrap yard.
Now comes a course correction. Earlier this month, a company called QE2 Holdings -- a new joint venture between Dubai World and the Singapore-based cruise company Oceanic Group -- announced plans to go ahead with the floating hotel project, but to move the QE2 from the Dubai cargo port where it has been laid up to a city in East Asia, most likely Hong Kong or Singapore. The company said it would invest $100 million in remaking the QE2 into a 400-room luxury hotel, with 7 restaurants, 10 lounges, a cinema and shopping mall. After leaving Dubai in October and being overhauled at a shipyard in China, the floating hotel is scheduled to open as early as winter 2014. Nightly room rates will start around $400.
In a telephone interview from Singapore, Daniel Chui, the chief executive of QE2 Holdings, said that his company was exploring either mooring the ship permanently in an Asian port city or changing locations every few years, which means the QE2 would remain seaworthy and might even take on occasional cruise passengers. ''We might spend three years in Singapore, then three years in Taiwan or Hong Kong,'' he said.
Mr. Chui said his company was studying the second lives of other historic ocean liners -- notably Cunard's Queen Mary, which is now a hotel and exhibition space moored off Long Beach, Calif. Unlike that project, which appeals to nautical enthusiasts as a kind of novelty hotel, the QE2 will target the ''top-end of the travel market,'' Mr. Chui said. The company is soliciting proposals for the renovation from architecture firms. The goal for the final design is to preserve the soul of the QE2 -- many of the original furnishings and much of the décor will be incorporated -- while creating a modern five-star hotel.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Queen Elizabeth 2 enters New York Harbor for the first time on May 7, 1969. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD HAUSNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); CRUISES (89%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (76%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); JOINT VENTURES (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SINGAPORE (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%); ASIA (71%); EASTERN ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



829 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Makeover for Technical Colleges, Based on Graduates' Earnings

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
SWEETWATER -- Striking a tone that has become increasingly fashionable among Texas politicians, House Speaker Joe Straus urged his fellow lawmakers at the outset of this year's legislative session to ''expand opportunity in Texas this session by improving coordination among high schools, community and technical colleges and the private sector so that no young person feels destined to spend life drifting from one low-skilled, minimum-wage job to the next.''
But amid talk of expanded technical education, Texas State Technical College West Texas -- one of the four institutions that make up the state's college system dedicated to technical education and work force development -- has been shrinking. 
In 2007, according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, more than 10,500 students were taking classes through T.S.T.C. West Texas, which has campuses in Brownwood, Abilene, Breckenridge and Sweetwater. Five years later, the school's enrollment was about 1,500.
The college's administrators say the decrease reflects a recalibration of the state's approach to offering technical education.
Starting on Sept. 1, after years of financing colleges based on the number of students enrolled, the amount of money the state gives to the T.S.T.C. System will be based solely on former students' earnings.
While legislative efforts to tie some state financing to outcomes at universities have largely fallen flat, the state's technical schools have embraced the concept.
''What is education worth? That is really at the heart of the accountability debate,'' said Michael Reeser, the former president of the West Texas campuses and current chancellor of the T.S.T.C. System.
Under the new ''value-added accountability funding formula,'' as Mr. Reeser called it, the earnings of students who attended the college for at least nine credit hours will be tracked using Texas Workforce Commission data -- as long as they remain in the state. The difference between their income after five years and the minimum wage will be considered value added by their education.
The economic benefit of the wage earners' tax bracket and buying power to the state will be calculated and used by the coordinating board to determine the level of financing for the school.
''We have a unique mission and a unique structure,'' Mr. Reeser said. ''That allowed us to do this unique formula. What we do is not appropriate for the other two-year sector schools, and it's not appropriate for the universities.
''You would never have another poet if you used this at a university.''
The other T.S.T.C. schools have also experienced recent dips in enrollment, though not as significantly as in West Texas. Mr. Reeser said that was because West Texas has been the test case for the new model and has been preparing for the transition since the concept was first floated in 2007.
Mr. Reeser and Gail Lawrence, the current president of the West Texas campuses, attributed much of the enrollment decline to the recent elimination of programs including digital media, which was popular among students but unlikely to get them a job in the area, and agricultural technology, which promised good job prospects but proved less popular.
According to the T.S.T.C., most of the decline can be attributed to the shedding programs designed to drive up enrollment -- particularly an online continuing education program for probationers.
Though that decision was made in 2008, Mr. Reeser said it was in preparation for an eventual conversion to a system in which high enrollment numbers were not as important as the potential earnings of students.
But George Reamy, a former conflict resolution coordinator for the T.S.T.C. System who maintains a Web site dedicated to monitoring the state's technical schools, is not convinced that the new model is driving the enrollment decrease. ''I've just never seen a campus die like this before,'' he said.
Mr. Reamy pointed to the West Texas administration's decision to outsource its general academic courses -- which are required for an associate degree -- to nearby community colleges as a significant reason for declining interest in the college.
Its nursing program also took a hit in 2012 when it was placed on conditional approval status by the Texas Board of Nursing, which prevented it from enrolling new students for much of the year.
''Maybe they are going to fix it,'' Mr. Reamy said. ''They look like they may be poised to stop the drop. But if they don't, how low can they go?''
Ms. Lawrence said the nursing program was back on track and should grow after being ''retooled.'' She also acknowledged that moving general academic courses off campus had proved unpopular with students and said that they would soon return.
''You don't change an industry and not take some risks,'' Mr. Reeser said, adding that the course offerings and financing model would continue to be tweaked and improved.
He acknowledged that recruiting and enrolling students in rural West Texas can be difficult. Last August, the college administration scrambled to organize a last-minute recruiting effort and waived some registration requirements to increase enrollment.
Mr. Reeser said he expected enrollment to increase in coming years, growing beyond what he called ''a good core of 1,000 to 2,000 students'' as new courses that begin this fall complement the expected oil-driven boom around the Cline Shale. Susan Brown, the Higher Education Coordinating Board's assistant commissioner of planning and accountability, said she was not concerned about enrollment at the technical colleges.
''They've been doing this in a very thoughtful way,'' Ms. Brown said. ''They are doing things to really focus on where they need to be.''
Of the college's new model, which she helped T.S.T.C. to create, Ms. Brown said:''I have not seen anything that is this tied to work force Time will tell if it works. I think a lot of people are watching them right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kasey Miller practicing oil industry rescue techniques at Texas State Technical College in Sweetwater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



830 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (AMC) THE KILLING In the season's penultimate episode, a battered Detective Linden (Mireille Enos, above) sits down with the presumed psychopath Ray Seward (Peter Sarsgaard) to parse the shreds of new evidence that may help her solve the case of who is killing young Seattle prostitutes -- and save him from execution, only hours away, for a murder he may not have committed.
9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH CANDY CROWLEY Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew discusses the economy, unemployment and the bankruptcy filing by Detroit. On ''Fox News Sunday,'' at 10, he addresses President Obama's economic plan as Congress prepares to enter a budget debate. Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, talks about Republicans who are warning that they will not approve any spending measure to keep the government operating after Sept. 30 if it devotes money to the new health care law. Mr. Lew also appears on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC, where Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, talks about the debate over the intelligence-gathering programs at the National Security Agency. Representative Rogers appears alongside Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, on ''Face the Nation,'' at 10:30 on CBS. 
1 P.M. (CUNY) THE STATIONS OF BACH (1990) A two-part tribute to Johann Sebastian Bach begins with a visit to the German cities in which he lived, hosted by the violinist James Buswell. In ''A Bach Companion'' (2000), at 2:30, the pianist Robert Levin discusses notable developments in Bach's life, accompanied by performances by the Brandenburg Consort; the Choir of King's College, Cambridge; and the harpsichordist Ton Koopman, among others.
6 P.M. (13) MOYERS & COMPANY In honor of the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, Bill Moyers interviews Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, who spoke at the event.
8 P.M. (TBS) YEAR ONE (2009) Two Paleolithic tribesmen -- Zed (Jack Black), a lousy hunter with bad spear aim, and Oh (Michael Cera, near left, with Mr. Black), a gentle gatherer who speaks to plants -- are banished and set out on a journey of biblical proportions. But not before Zed takes a bite of a golden apple from the forbidden tree. The cast includes David Cross as Cain, Paul Rudd as Abel, Hank Azaria as Abraham, Christopher Mintz-Plasse as Isaac and Oliver Platt as a Sodomite priest. In The Times, Manohla Dargis called this comedy from Harold Ramis, who also wrote it with Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, ''a thoroughly, sometimes gaggingly broad and sly conceptual laugh-in.''
9 P.M. (13, 49) ENDEAVOUR, SERIES I: HOME This season finale in the new ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' series, a prequel to ''Inspector Morse,'' finds Detective Constable Endeavour Morse (Shaun Evans) studying for his sergeant's exam and grappling with his father's illness when he is called on to investigate the hit-and-run death of an eminent Oxford professor. The tension builds when someone threatens to reveal secrets from the past of Inspector Thursday (Roger Allam), forcing Morse to choose between the responsibilities of his job and loyalty to his mentor.
9 P.M. (CBS) UNFORGETTABLE A second season begins as Carrie Wells (Poppy Montgomery), the detective who can remember every moment of her life, and her partner, Al Burns (Dylan Walsh), are invited to join the major crimes section of the New York Police Department. But their first case, a child kidnapping, hits uncomfortably close to home.
10 P.M. (E!) TOTAL DIVAS This new reality series follows five World Wrestling Entertainment Divas -- Nikki Bella (real name: Stephanie Garcia-Colace) and Brie Bella (Brianna Garcia-Colace) of the tag team the Bella Twins; Naomi (Trinity McCray) and Cameron (Ariane Andrew) of the Funkadactyls; and Natalya (Natalie Neidhart ) -- in and out of the wrestling ring. Meanwhile, Eva Marie (Natalie Nelson) and JoJo Offerman (Joseann Offerman) train for future divahood.
10 P.M. (HBO) THE NEWSROOM Will (Jeff Daniels, left) decides to tell Nina Howard (Hope Davis) the truth. A new Genoa witness shows up on Twitter. And Jim (John Gallagher Jr.) runs into a bit of trouble getting answers.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLE SEGAL/AMC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (86%); MURDER (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); RELIGION (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (79%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (78%); MIKE ROGERS (68%); JOHN LEWIS (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); MARK UDALL (53%); MIKE LEE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



831 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Back Against Wretched Wages

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE. 
A reporter on labor and workplace issues for The New York Times, and the author of ''The Big Squeeze: Tough Times for the American Worker.''

 BODY:
OFTEN relegated to the background, America's low-wage workers have been making considerable noise lately by deploying an unusual weapon -- one-day strikes -- to make their message heard: they're sick and tired of earning just $8, $9, $10 an hour.
Their anger has been stoked by what they see as a glaring disconnect: their wages have flatlined, while median pay for chief executives at the nation's top corporations jumped 16 percent last year, averaging a princely $15.1 million, according to Equilar, an executive compensation analysis firm.
In recent weeks, workers from McDonald's, Taco Bell and other fast-food restaurants -- many of them part-time employees -- have staged one-day walkouts in New York, Chicago, Detroit and Seattle to protest their earnings, typically just $150 to $350 a week, often too little to support themselves and their families. More walkouts are expected at fast-food restaurants in seven cities on Monday. Earlier this month hundreds of low-wage employees working for federal contractors in Washington walked out and picketed along Pennsylvania Avenue to urge President Obama to press their employers to raise wages. 
Ana Salvador, who earns $10 an hour after 10 years working at the McDonald's inside the National Air and Space Museum, wrote Mr. Obama to say that she did not earn enough to support her four children, adding that her family relied on food stamps and Medicaid. Another striker, Karla Quezada, who has worked at the Subway inside the Ronald Reagan Building for 11 years, said that while her employer made ''lots of money off of my work, I still only make $9.50 an hour.'' This is higher than the $7.25-an-hour federal minimum wage as well as the District of Columbia's $8.25 minimum -- many states have minimums above the federal level -- but it isn't much after more than a decade on the job. In a speech in Galesburg, Ill., last Wednesday aimed at bolstering the middle class, Mr. Obama called for raising the minimum wage.
Many low-paid workers feel their employers have put an invisible ceiling on their wages, with little prospect of ever making more than $10 or $11 an hour, as corporations have focused on keeping wages competitive and maximizing profits to benefit shareholders. The richest Americans have benefited mightily from corporate America's record profits and the stock market's repeated highs.
''Long-term trends have not been kind to low-wage workers,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, an economics professor at Harvard University. ''They've been hurt by technological change'' -- scanners, for instance, have reduced the demand for supermarket cashiers -- ''and by the decline in institutions like labor unions and the minimum wage,'' which has not kept up with inflation in recent decades. ''Then on top of that is an extremely weak labor market.''
The bottom 20 percent of American workers by income -- 28 million workers -- earn less than $9.89 an hour, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group. That translates to $20,570 a year for a full-time employee. Their income fell 5 percent between 2006 and 2012. Wages for workers at the 50th percentile -- their median pay is $16.30 an hour -- have also dipped, falling 3.4 percent, while pay for the top 10 percent rose 3 percent.
Lorraine Riley James makes $9.35 an hour at the Macy's on North Michigan Avenue in Chicago and has received just $1.35 in raises since starting there six years ago. ''I have so much experience that I don't feel what they're paying me is fair,'' she said. ''I generated a quarter of a million in sales for them last year.''
Jim Sluzewski, Macy's senior vice president for corporate communications, said, ''We seek to pay competitive wages and benefits based on performance and experience,'' adding that the company has increased wages every year. ''Remaining a stable employer requires that we remain a financially strong company,'' he said.
Corporate America has embraced many strategies to slice labor costs. Many Walmart stores -- as part of a new strategy to save on wages and benefits -- are hiring only temps to fill job openings. Scores of companies are relying increasingly on part-timers, who typically get paid several dollars less per hour than full-timers.
Caterpillar has pioneered two-tier wage systems, in which workers hired after a certain date are consigned to a significantly lower wage scale than others, and it recently pressed its longer-term employees into accepting a six-year wage freeze. Many Caterpillar workers ask why the company insisted on a pay freeze when it reported repeated record profits -- $5.7 billion last year, amounting to $45,000 per Caterpillar employee.
Caterpillar's chief executive, Douglas Oberhelman (whose compensation has increased more than 80 percent over the last two years), says the freeze was vital to keep wages competitive with rival companies. ''I always try to communicate to our people that we can never make enough money,'' he recently told Bloomberg Businessweek. ''We can never make enough profit.''
Nick Hanauer, a Seattle-based entrepreneur whose company produces comforters and pillows, said: ''Employers pay their work force as much as they are forced to and no more. There's no compelling reason to give raises'' with the unemployment rate as high as it is. He said he supported a higher minimum wage so workers earn enough to live on. Mr. Katz sees only limited ways to end wage stagnation for low-paid workers. More education and training can lift pay for individual workers, but considering that 20 of America's 25 fastest-growing jobs -- like nursing home aide and retail clerk -- do not require a college education, low-wage jobs won't disappear anytime soon.
Mr. Katz said a good way to push up wages would be to reduce the jobless rate to 5 percent or less. That happened in the late 1990s -- the only time since the 1970s when wages for the bottom half of workers rose strongly. Employers had to bid up wages to attract workers or keep employees from jumping ship.
It remains unclear what the wave of one-day strikes is seeking to achieve. One objective is to push the issue of low-wage work onto the nation's political agenda. Some one-day strikers are calling for a $15-an-hour minimum wage, but Scott DeFife, executive vice president of the National Restaurant Association, scoffed at the idea, saying a $15 minimum would cause restaurants to hire fewer people. He said restaurants provide valuable experience for many entry-level workers, noting that ''80 percent of restaurant owners and operators say they started out as hourly workers in the industry.''
Some strategists behind the one-day strikes hope to create a political environment in which some cities might embrace measures similar to ones in Washington and Long Beach, Calif. Washington's City Council has approved a $12.50 minimum wage at big-box stores -- a move that has Walmart threatening to cancel plans to open three more stores in the city. And in Long Beach, labor unions persuaded residents to approve a $13-an-hour minimum wage for the city's hotel workers in a referendum last November.
Heidi Shierholz, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, argues that wage increases would give a boost to the economy.
''The real reason businesses aren't hiring is they're not seeing consumer demand for their goods and services increase,'' she said. ''We need greater demand for goods and services. It is clearly true that if people receive higher incomes, that will help the economy.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Low-Wage Americans: The roughly 21 million workers who earn between the minimum wage and $10 an hour are largely young and without children. But a significant number are older, college-educated or raising families. (Source: Economic Policy Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); STRIKES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TRENDS (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FAMILY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



832 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: A Confederacy of Lunches

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BUCKLEY. 
Christopher Buckley lived in Washington for 29 years before finally going home. His book of essays, ''But Enough About You,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
THIS TOWNTwo Parties and a Funeral -- Plus Plenty of Valet Parking! -- in America's Gilded Capital
By Mark Leibovich386 pp. Blue Rider Press. $27.95.
Not to ruin it for you, but: if you already hate Washington, you're going to hate it a whole lot more after reading Mark Leibovich's takedown of the creatures who infest our nation's capital and rule our destinies. And in case you are deluded enough as to think they care, you'll learn that they already hate you. He quotes his former Washington Post colleague Henry Allen: ''Washington feels like a conspiracy we're all in together, and nobody else in America quite understands, even though they pay for it.'' 
Contrary to the subtitle, there are actually two funerals, which constitute the high -- and low -- points of the book: the farewells for Tim Russert, longtime host of NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' and Richard Holbrooke, late of the State Department. These chapters are mini-masterpieces of politico-anthropological sociology. Leibovich does for Russert's memorial service at the Kennedy Center what Tom Wolfe's ''Radical Chic'' did for Lenny and Felicia Bernstein's party for the Black Panthers. Holbrooke's valedictory, also held at the Ken Cen, First Secular Megachurch of Self-Regard, reads like the funeral scene in ''The Godfather,'' transplanted to the banks of the Potomac. Both occasions were (yes, of course) sad, both men having been cut down in their prime (or near prime). But in Leibovich's rendering, they are gorgeous pageants of Human Comedy, large-C and small-c.
No one, Leibovich notes, would have enjoyed it more than Russert, a greatly beloved figure -- ''mayor of This Town.'' He ''would have loved the outpouring from the power mourners. And he also would have understood better than everyone that all of the speeches and tributes and telegenic choke-ups were never, not for a second, about him. They were about people left behind to scrape their way up the pecking order in his absence.'' If it were a movie, and pray may it become one, it could be called ''Netwaking Tim Russert.''
Holbrooke's memorial service, in turn, featured 15 eulogists. ''The stories were told in the spirit of 'You can't help but love the guy,' '' Leibovich writes, ''even if some people very much could.'' His account takes on a Shakespearean flavor as various eulogists turn it into a not-even-thinly-veiled smack-down of the conspicuous captive mourner sitting onstage -- President Obama. As a personality, Holbrooke was your proverbial larger-than-life dynamo. But dynamos are exhausting, and Obama had reached his exhaustion point early on, after which he seemed to take perverse enjoyment in undercutting and humiliating his special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Enter (trumpets, fanfare) former President Clinton, who uses his eulogy slot to plunge a stealth dagger into the man who defeated his wife in 2008. This makes for spectator sport of the very highest order, and the craftiest bit of eulogy jujitsu since Mark Antony took to the rostrum in 44 B.C. to praise Brutus and the rest.
Bonus details: Obama apparently hates having to sit through other people's speeches, even when they aren't sneak attacks on him. Also: Henry Kissinger telling Holbrooke's widow that Obama is, as Nixon was, a loner, with this rather piquant difference: ''Nixon liked to have big personalities around him. Obama does not.'' This is a telling observation, coming from the man who has known all the personalities of his time.
In one sense, these episodes simply affirm, as do the two parties of the book's subtitle, an old, familiar theme: Vanity Fair, peacock egos, lust for power, greed, betrayal and broken hearts. We're shocked -- shocked -- that human nature is taking place in the nation's capital! Pass the salt, would you?
Anyone who's lived in Washington for any length of time, listening to the latest candidate for the nation's highest office thump the lectern and proclaim he is going to change the way we do business in Washington . . . will yawn. We heard rather a lot about all that in 2008. So, has Washington changed? Or as Sarah Palin would put it, ''How's that hopey-changey thing workin' out for ya?''
The answer, according to Leibovich, the chief national correspondent for The New York Times Magazine, is: yes, actually, it has, but not in ways that benefit the Republic that the founders bequeathed us and that we squander so promiscuously.
He adduces four serious -- I'm trying to avoid saying ''tectonic'' -- shifts that have taken place over the last 40 years. Combined, they make ''This Town'' read like the endgame chapters of Gibbon's ''Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.'' In addition to his reporting talents, Leibovich is a writer of excellent zest. At times, this book is laugh-out-loud (as well as weep-out-loud). He is an exuberant writer, even as his reporting leaves one reaching for the Xanax. As for those four big changes:
Lobbying. President Obama's first year in office was the best year ever for the special interests industry, which earned $3.47 billion lobbying the federal government. Ka-ching -- your change, sir. There's a phrase in journalism-speak called ''burying the lede,'' which Leibovich appears to do by waiting until Page 330 to cite this arresting figure (previously reported by The Atlantic): in 1974, 3 percent of retiring members of Congress became lobbyists. ''Now 50 percent of senators and 42 percent of congressmen do.'' No one goes home anymore. Cincinnatus, call your office.
There are a number of sanctimonious standout ''formers'' in Leibovich's Congressional hall of shame, but just to name a few exemplars who gleefully inhabit ethical no-worry zones and execute brisk 180-degree switcheroos on any issue, including the Armenian genocide, so long as it pays: Dick Gephardt, Evan Bayh and Tim Pawlenty. (Christopher Dodd, late of Connecticut, is another beauty. Disclosure: he beat my uncle out of a Senate seat, but judge for yourself if he isn't loathsome for other reasons.) My own modest proposal is that the media stop referring to these scoundrels as ''strategic consultants'' or their other camouflage titles and call them what they are: influence peddlers. I know -- good luck with that.
The other major change took place pari passu with lobbying: the arrival of big money in Washington. ''Over the last dozen years,'' Leibovich writes, ''corporate America (much of it Wall Street) has tripled the amount of money it has spent on lobbying and public affairs consulting in D.C.'' Alongside this money comes the tsunami of dollars from presidential campaigns. He reports that during the 2012 contest, the so-called super PACs and megadonors pumped ''upwards of $2 billion . . . into the empty-calorie economy of two men destroying each other.'' He refers to a datum courtesy of The Huffington Post, which reported in the spring of 2012 that, so far, ''the top 150 consulting companies had . . . grossed more than $465 million'' during the campaign.
All of which has given rise to another unlovely development: political consultants and their concomitant celebrity. This breed has, Leibovich says, essentially replaced the old-style political bosses. One might ask: is it a bad thing that we now have the omnipresent James Carville and Mary Matalin and their ilk? Aren't we better off for this ''celebrity-industrial complex'' instead of the smoke-filled rooms of yore? Over to you, but at least the boys in the smoke-filled rooms didn't yap at us on TV on the Sabbath and endorse Maker's Mark bourbon. (Honestly, James and Mary. They're also doing the safety briefing voice-over for Independence Air. Is this a great country or what? Meanwhile, on ''Good Morning America'' tomorrow, George Stephanopoulos's guests are. . . .)
Bringing us to the fourth change: Pandora's (cable TV) box. The rise of cable television and the 24/7 news cycle, as well as Facebook, Twitter and the rest of social media, have provided all these people with heretofore unimaginable influence. ''Suddenly,'' Leibovich writes, ''anyone without facial warts could call themselves a 'strategist' and get on TV. Or start an e-mail newsletter, Web site or, later, blog, Facebook page or Twitter following -- in other words, become Famous for Washington.''
It has also enabled journalists to turn themselves into pundits, with all the glittery and greasy emoluments of that lower trade. ''Punditry,'' he writes, ''has replaced reporting as journalism's highest calling, accompanied by a mad dash of 'self-branding,' to borrow a term that had now fully infested the city: everyone now hellbent on branding themselves in the marketplace, like Cheetos (Russert was the local Coca-Cola). They gather, all the brands, at . . . self-reverential festivals, like the April White House Correspondents' Association dinner, whose buffet of 'pre-parties' and 'after-parties' now numbers more than two dozen -- because a single banquet, it is clear, cannot properly celebrate the full achievements of the People Who Run Your Country.'' Tom Brokaw, current wearer of the mantles of Walter Cronkite and Tim Russert, has now publicly declared he's over and out and done with the damn thing, which has become a grotesque, narcissistic self-parody.
The proliferation of ''formers'' and pundits has resulted in ''a high-profile blur of People on TV whose brands overtook their professional identities. They were not journalists or strategists or pols per se, but citizens of the greenroom.''
''Citizens of the Greenroom'' would have made a dandy title for this vastly entertaining and deeply troubling book. So would -- to borrow from Garrett Morris's Chico Escuela shtick on the old ''Saturday Night Live'' -- ''Washington Been Bery, Bery Good to Me!'' Or, to borrow from P. J. O'Rourke's imperishable 1991 study of Washington, ''Parliament of Whores, Continued.''
By the end, one is left thinking that our country would be so much better off if, after putting in their years of ''public service,'' all these people would just go home. Or just away. But then what would we do for entertainment, being left with a mere Parliament of Bores?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (55%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (89%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



833 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: By the Book: Francis S. Collins

 BODY:
Though he believes in ''the harmony of science and faith,'' the director of the National Institutes of Health and the author of ''The Language of God'' says he keeps books by Dawkins and Hitchens on his shelves: ''Iron sharpens iron.''
What's the best book you've read so far this year?
I found ''The Creative Destruction of Medicine,'' by Eric Topol, to be very provocative. The author points out a deluge of dramatic advances in diverse areas of health care, including genomics, personalized medicine, the use of cellphone technology in health applications (so-called mHealth), new imaging approaches and new devices. Eric makes the case that the full utilization of these powerful technologies will require a major overhaul of our current system of delivering medical care. 
Who are your favorite science writers? Anyone new and good we should pay attention to?
I have been very taken by the thoughtful essays on the profound flaws of our health care system penned by the surgeon Atul Gawande. But for spinning a yarn about the history of medical advances, there has been no better book in recent memory than ''The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer,'' by Siddhartha Mukherjee. For delightfully quirky descriptions of bizarre neurological syndromes that teach us a lot about how the brain works, there is no match for Oliver Sacks.
You have written several books on the intersection of religion and science. What other books on the subject would you recommend?
I'm happy to say that there is a growing list of thoughtful commentaries on the harmony that can be found between these worldviews. For conservative Christians, ''Coming to Peace With Science,'' by Darrel Falk, and ''Origins,'' by Deborah and Loren Haarsma, are accessible and reassuring reads. Slightly edgier but very well-argued perspectives are provided by ''Finding Darwin's God,'' by Kenneth Miller, and Karl Giberson's ''Saving Darwin.'' For those who are interested in the range of options that can blend science and faith, I found Denis Alexander's book ''Creation or Evolution: Do We Have to Choose?'' to be an exceptionally well-articulated synthesis. And if you are looking for a pastor's perspective on faith and reason, have a look at ''The Reason for God,'' by the Rev. Tim Keller of New York's Redeemer Presbyterian Church.
What are the best books for laypeople about genetics and the most recent developments in the field?
Perhaps immodestly, I'd recommend my own book, ''The Language of Life: DNA and the Revolution in Personalized Medicine.'' Other well-written descriptions include ''The $1,000 Genome,'' by Kevin Davies, and Misha Angrist's ''Here Is a Human Being.''
Are there particular books on bioethics or medical controversies you'd recommend?
Nothing compares in terms of recent impact on society (not to mention the number of weeks on the New York Times best-seller list) with ''The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,'' by Rebecca Skloot. Her book tells the story of how the first immortal human cell line was derived without consent from an African-American woman more than 60 years ago, and how bioethics standards have evolved since then.
What are your favorite novels of all time?
My own favorites are mostly based on the effects they had on me when I was growing up -- maybe because I had more time to read then. As a child growing up on a farm, we had no television -- instead, my father would read novels out loud to us after dinner. My favorite was Charles Dickens's ''The Pickwick Papers,'' but ''Tom Sawyer'' and ''Huckleberry Finn'' were on the shortlist. Later, as a budding scientist in high school, I read ''1984'' when it still seemed like a distant future vision, and worried about where science might be taking us. Now, almost 30 years after that scary date, I'm happy to see that Orwell's scenarios didn't happen.
What kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of?
I like biography, auto- or otherwise. I was deeply moved by Eric Metaxas' biography of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, and loved ''Einstein: His Life and Universe,'' by Walter Isaacson. Of course, for a well-told yarn of scientific competition, blind alleys, dirty tricks and triumph, there is no substitute for Jim Watson's ''The Double Helix.'' As for what I steer clear of, that would include anything involving shoddy science and/or self-indulgent writing.
What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?
Considering my own stance on the satisfying harmony of science and faith, you might be surprised to find on my shelves nearly everything written by Richard Dawkins (including ''The God Delusion'') and my late friend Christopher Hitchens (including ''God Is Not Great''). One must dig deeply into opposing points of view in order to know whether your own position remains defensible. Iron sharpens iron.
What book has had the greatest impact on you?
As an atheist evolving to agnosticism, and seeking answers to whether or not belief in God is potentially rational, my life was turned upside down 35 years ago by reading C.â[#x20ac][0/00]S. Lewis's ''Mere Christianity.''
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?
He's a busy guy -- so it wouldn't be a whole book. It would be a booklet entitled ''Leadership in Decline: Assessing U.S. International Competitiveness in Biomedical Research.'' Published through a collaboration between United for Medical Research and the nonpartisan Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, it documents how America is steadily losing its leadership in biomedical research, with serious consequences for our economy and the health of our nation.
You were brought up on a farm in the Shenandoah Valley and home-schooled until the sixth grade. What kinds of books did you read as a child?
I was a regular at the public library, and I read everything written by Frank Baum -- including ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,'' of course -- which, at age 7, I turned into a full script that was performed on the stage. But there were 14 Oz books, and I loved them all. I also loved cowboy books by Zane Grey, the Doctor Dolittle series, and all of the Winnie-the-Pooh books from A.â[#x20ac][0/00]A. Milne.
Did you identify with any fictional characters growing up? Who was your literary hero?
Oh yes. The Cowardly Lion from ''The Wizard of Oz.'' I had my own childhood fears and nightmares (doesn't every kid?), and I related to the Lion's surprising admission of fearfulness -- but I also noticed that the Lion was actually remarkably courageous and loyal when called upon. He just didn't understand (until Oz) that courage is not the absence of fear, it's taking noble action in the face of fear. I liked that. (And I got to play that part in the stage production.)
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn't? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
Sorry, Dan -- but all of the Dan Brown books have left me agitated. I keep trying to like them, but the subtle distortions of history get in the way.
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know?
That's a tough one. But I think I would go with Luke the physician, the author of the third Gospel. I'd want to have a long conversation over coffee (or better yet, over a nice pinot grigio) to learn everything about him -- as a doctor, a follower of Jesus and a gifted writer.
If you could be any character from literature who would you be?
I'm tempted to go with Martin Arrowsmith (the title character of Sinclair Lewis's 1925 novel) -- an early model of the modern medical researcher.
What book have you always meant to read and haven't gotten around to yet? Anything you feel embarrassed never to have read?
The list is very, very long. We could start with Dostoyevsky.
What do you plan to read next?
''C.â[#x20ac][0/00]S. Lewis: A Life'' -- a new biography from Alister McGrath.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WRITERS (90%); RELIGION (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); DNA (78%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); GENOMICS (70%); BRAIN (66%); CONSERVATISM (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



834 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice | Recent Books of Particular Interest

 BODY:
THE PANOPTICON, by Jenni Fagan. (Hogarth, $22.) In Fagan's pugnacious, snub-nosed paean to the highs and lows of juvenile delinquency, readers will find reflections of Benthamite prison reform, Michel Foucault and the TV show ''Big Brother.'' 
WEALTH AND POWER: China's Long March to the Twenty-First Century, by Orville Schell and John Delury. (Random House, $30.) Humiliation by foreigners seen as a nationalist rallying cry in modern China.
THE SPY WHO LOVED: The Secrets and Lives of Christine Granville, by Clare Mulley. (St. Martin's, $26.99.) Granville was one of Britain's most daring and highly decorated special agents of World War II.
CITY OF AMBITION: FDR, La Guardia, and the Making of Modern New York, by Mason B. Williams. (Norton, $29.95.) Williams reminds us that much of the mayor's outsize success was due to Roosevelt's channeling of federal resources through his city.
WORLDLY PHILOSOPHER: The Odyssey of Albert O. Hirschman, by Jeremy Adelman. (Princeton University, $39.95.) The economist's star has faded, but his extraordinarily dramatic life is a biographer's dream.
A TREACHEROUS PARADISE, by Henning Mankell. Translated by Laurie Thompson. (Knopf, $26.95.) In this novel, a Swedish madam and her prostitutes confront racism and sexism in Portuguese East Africa.
CHILDREN ARE DIAMONDS: An African Apocalypse, by Edward Hoagland. (Arcade, $23.95.) The adventure-seeking protagonist of Hoagland's novel is swept up in the chaos of southern Sudan.
THE GIRL WHO LOVED CAMELLIAS: The Life and Legend of Marie Duplessis, by Julie Kavanagh. (Knopf, $27.95.) The celebrated French courtesan.
BOBCAT: And Other Stories, by Rebecca Lee. (Algonquin, paper, $14.95.) Lee's characters are driven, and confounded, by their own desires.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PRISONS (72%); WRITERS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); RACE & RACISM (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%); SUDAN (70%); EASTERN AFRICA (70%); MOZAMBIQUE (70%); AFRICA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



835 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Our Attitudes About Debt

 BODY:
Readers debate the importance of reducing the nation's debt.
To the Editor:
I have found it difficult to discuss the federal debt with those people who confuse a government's debt (in dollars) with personal debt and try to use kitchen table ideas to understand the economy. For example, such folks are fond of pointing out that the debt must eventually be paid off. They never tell me why this is the case, even when I point out that the debt has been paid off only once in American history (1835) and that was followed by one of the longest depressions in our history.
There have been six periods in our history when we have balanced the budget and had a surplus for more than three years. For example, after World War I we had surpluses from 1920 to 1930 and reduced the debt by almost 40 percent. There have also been six depressions in our history that followed right on the heels of one of the periods of debt reduction. For example, we all know what happened in 1929. 
On the other hand, after World War II we had 27 years of mostly deficit spending and almost doubled the debt, but we had great prosperity. For example, real median household income surged 74 percent. While paying down the debt seems to have only produced disasters, I cannot find a period when too much debt has hurt us.
These are the facts one should keep in mind when one thinks about the debt. Or we can keep doing the same things over and over and expecting different results.
LEONARD S. CHARLAP Princeton, N.J., July 22, 2013
The writer is a retired mathematician.
Readers React
Mr. Charlap's letter is based on the premise that many believe that ''the debt must eventually be paid off.'' That is not, in fact, the concern of those alarmed by the growing size of our national debt. Rather, they worry that the debt cannot grow faster than the economy forever.
The national debt has grown from 55 percent of gross domestic product in 2001 to 105 percent of G.D.P. in 2013. That is an unsustainable path. If this were to continue, interest payments on the debt would eventually crowd out all other government expenditures.
The ever-growing debt-to-G.D.P. ratio is the real fear, and one that is both theoretically clear and supported by historical experience. The writer's inability to ''find a period when too much debt has hurt us'' is a narrow vision that ignores the experience of other nations such as Greece, which is collapsing under the weight of its national debt.
While no one can predict the future with certainty, it is worth noting that the Greek economy began to collapse in 2009 when its debt hit about 127 percent of G.D.P. If we in the United States continue on the present path, we too will reach that milestone within a few years.
JEREMY BERKOWITZ Boston, July 24, 2013
The writer formerly worked for the Federal Reserve Board.
Mr. Charlap is on to something important in questioning those who speak, without thinking, historically or otherwise, about the national debt. Yet Mr. Charlap does not mention one important factor: During those years of American prosperity when the federal debt was reduced, marginal federal income tax rates were at their highest historical rates, sometimes as much as 91 percent.
Consider our history and math in terms of classic Keynesian economics: When the economy slides, higher marginal tax rates coupled with government spending have been the primary movers of economic recovery. When the economy recovers and those higher tax rates remain in effect, the national debt and government spending can be reduced.
Imagine where our national economy would be today had the Clinton surplus been used for debt reduction, with appropriately reduced stimulation of the economy, rather than tax cuts for the rich and two unfunded wars -- a mistake that resulted in the Great Recession of 2008.
MICHAEL SPARKMAN Santa Fe, N.M., July 24, 2013
The writer is a retired certified public accountant.
The cost of debt service (interest payments) can be corrosive and consumes dollars that could be used more productively. Debt is an instrument that allows for leveraging money in hand to achieve goals that may be beyond immediate reach. Once the goals are achieved, debt should be retired.
Our government budgeting process is a never-ending sinkhole. And when you take into account that so much of America's debt is held by foreigners, you can't even argue the benefit of paying interest as a transfer of money to American consumers.
JOEL PRIVES Lenox, Mass., July 24, 2013
Mr. Charlap's observations regarding economic slumps that followed periods of debt reduction are astute. Yet, to many people, the size of the country's gross debt is ominous. The real issue, however, is debt sustainability. Debt sustainability is best measured by the debt service to gross domestic product ratio. That reflects what we must produce to pay creditors. The debt service to G.D.P. ratio in 2012 was 2.3 percent, lower than in President Reagan's day.
Comparing the nation's debt burden to a household with a mortgage can be instructive. Our national debt service is puny compared with a typical American household with a mortgage, where a debt service ratio of up to 40 percent of income is not atypical. For a nation, a debt service ratio under 3 percent, as we have now, should not elicit panic and is no basis for budgetary austerity when needs are vast and the economy weak.
JIM WALLACE Alexandria, Va., July 24, 2013
The writer is an economist.
Politicians with arguments for paying down the debt always try to relate the issue to one's own pocketbook. That is, debt is always bad, and to be fiscally solvent, one should pay down the debt as soon as possible, whether it is for a house, a car or college for the children. However, for a family, taking a loan for a house, a car, college or any large item is an investment in the future that most of us willingly make.
One could make a similar argument that much of what government should go into debt for should also be an investment that will pay off in the long run. Examples in the past would be the investments made for a national highway system, land-grant colleges, the establishment of the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health and Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, all of which had returns many times over the initial investment.
On the other hand, the unfortunate investment of over a trillion dollars fighting two unnecessary wars in Iraq and Afghanistan was, as in most wars since World War II, not worth going into debt.
The question ''Why pay off the debt?'' should be seen in two ways. True investments, such as infrastructure development and improvement, are well worth going into debt. Fighting wars should be paid up front through taxes and not through accumulating debt.
LEON KEER Wilmette, Ill., July 24, 2013
I agree with Mr. Charlap. I am 88 years old, and all of my adult life I have been hearing the claim that we cannot exceed this or that amount of debt. Yet we continually pass these supposed limits with no damage to our economy or our country.
I have also been told that government has to be run like a business. Government is not a business. Businesses are created to make profits for their owners. Governments are created to protect and serve the people, a vastly different purpose.
STANLEY M. SPITZER Palm Beach, Fla., July 24, 2013
Mr. Charlap writes in tandem with Paul Krugman that we are too concerned about debt. Americans' concern isn't necessarily about paying off the debt, but about allowing politicians to engage in what seems to be limitless spending. Many Americans abhor debt when it comes to the government, especially when there continue to be reports of incomplete projects and Pentagon cost overruns.
Our economy will continue to stumble along if we do not see some form of spending discipline and budget controls.
TIM PASQUARELLI Golden, Colo., July 24, 2013
The Writer Responds
Mr. Berkowitz and Mr. Prives seem traumatized by the cost of debt service, which as Mr. Wallace demonstrates is nothing to be afraid of. I might join them in their fears if they could cite any period in American history when debt service has ''crowd[ed] out all other government expenditures.'' Frankly, I worry more about an asteroid hitting New York City.
I am surprised that Mr. Berkowitz offers Greece as an example of what can go wrong. It has been shown over and over that Greece is nothing like the United States. For one thing, Greece cannot print its own money. I should also point out that the debt as a percentage of G.D.P. in the United States in 1946 was 121 percent, not far from what he points out as the death knell for Greece. Of course, we then had 27 years of prosperity.
I agree with Mr. Sparkman that very high tax rates on the rich after World War II were another factor in our prosperity. Strong unions and strong financial regulation were also factors. I would like to warn him, however, that the Keynesian view that debt can be substantially reduced in a good economy is strongly contradicted by the history quoted in my letter.
LEONARD S. CHARLAP Princeton, N.J., July 25, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIGH GULDIG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); HISTORY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); WORLD WAR I (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



836 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: The Illusion of Control

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
For Alejandro Suarez, the change in the East Village is easily visible on the shelves of the bodega where he has worked for seven years. On the corner of East 12th Street and Avenue A, the store used to be at the borderline between the richer people to the West and the poorer people to the East. When Suarez started, he sold lots of beans and rice to the Hispanic people who lived on the block. But Goya products are now crammed on a tiny shelf way in the back, while up front, there's a huge and growing selection of organic produce, vegetarian sandwiches and high-end energy bars. 
The East Village and the broader Lower East Side make up one of the most economically integrated parts of the city. It is one of the last places where the fairly rich and the very poor live on the same blocks and shop in the same bodegas. But the area is steadily becoming more like most of Manhattan: dominated by those with high incomes paying seemingly absurd rents, while the poor either leave or stay in government housing on the periphery. While older affordable housing is reaching the end of its life cycle, new affordable housing's major source of public funding -- Congress -- is planning comprehensive tax-and-spending reform. This could pose an existential threat to New York's regulatory efforts to keep Manhattan affordable for the poor.
So what would happen if Manhattan were completely free of rent regulations and other forms of housing subsidies? According to several housing analysts, it would quickly become an island occupied solely by middle class and rich people. Christopher Mayer, a housing economist at Columbia Business School, imagines tens of thousands of professionals, currently scared away by insane rents, moving in from Brooklyn, Queens and Hoboken -- even Philadelphia and Chicago. ''Poor people would be priced out of Manhattan,'' he says. ''Period.'' But an East Village where nobody makes less than $90,000 a year might actually damage the city's long-term prospects.
Manhattan has had an outsize impact on the world's culture and economy in large part because of its economic diversity. Home to broke writers and wealthy publishers, starving painters and well-heeled collectors, unproven fashion newcomers and the established houses, and countless other symbiotic pairings, Manhattan has been a place where unlikely ideas can build an audience and, sometimes, dominate the mainstream. For 200 years, the East Village has served as an initial toehold into this chaotic mess. But rent regulation may not be helping keep it diverse.
Rent control first appeared in the 1940s, when soldiers returned to the city seeking apartments for their new families, causing rents to rise drastically. Since then, countless housing programs have been created at local, state and federal levels, but the biggest housing intervention in New York today is rent stabilization: a slightly more flexible version of rent control, in which a city board of experts annually determines how much more landlords can charge their tenants.
The problem, though, is that these programs actually make the city much less affordable for those unlucky enough not to live in a rent-regulated apartment, Mayer says. The absurdity of New York City's housing market has become a standard part of many Econ 101 courses, because it is such a clear example of public policy that achieves the near opposite of its goals. There are, effectively, two rental markets in Manhattan. Roughly half the apartments are under rent regulation, public housing or some other government program. That leaves everyone else to compete for the half with rents determined by the market. Mayer points out that most housing programs tie government support to an apartment unit, not a person. ''That is completely nuts,'' he says. It creates enormous incentive for people to stay in apartments that no longer fit their needs, because they have had kids or their kids have left or their job has moved farther away. This inertia is a key factor in New York's housing shortage. One East Village real estate agent told me that only 20 to 30 units are available in the entire area any given month.
This might be acceptable if all the rent-controlled and rent-stabilized units were inhabited by the poor people the programs were designed to help and if most poor people lived in rent-regulated units. But according to data from N.Y.U.'s Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, a majority of people in rent-regulated Manhattan apartments make far above the poverty level.
Interestingly, advocates for continued rent regulation and those who oppose it largely agree on what would happen if the programs were eliminated. It would be win-win-lose: great for landlords and the middle class and awful for people who benefit today. Mayer walked me through a likely result. Many of the people receiving some sort of government subsidy would have to leave their apartments, probably for the outer boroughs. The landlords of those units would invest in upgrades and charge higher rents. At the same time, the subset of apartments that had been market rate would see their rents fall, because there would be, suddenly, twice as many apartments in the market.
For Mayer, as for many economists, this is proof that rent regulation is an incredibly expensive program, preventing billions of dollars of development. It also creates an odd lotterylike system in which those who are lucky enough to have a rent-regulated apartment can live in the best parts of the city for next to nothing and everyone else is shunted aside. Eliminating rent regulation would be such a huge windfall for landlords, Mayer says, that he could imagine a sort of grand bargain. The programs go away, but landlords have to pay higher property taxes. The extra city revenue could go to a fund to help poor people afford market-rate apartments. In theory, this could be designed to make the shift win-win-win. The city could stay socioeconomically diverse without any six-bedroom apartments renting for $225.
Vicki Been, the director of N.Y.U.'s Furman Center, says most rent-regulation advocates acknowledge some of Mayer's criticisms but want to keep the programs anyway. ''We can't just say, 'Let's get rid of rent regulations and replace them with the optimal system,' '' she says. ''The political forces that would get rid of rent regulation would not be the forces looking for optimal legislation.'' It would be landlords and developers. In the political battles that define New York's real estate market, she says, the poor rarely come out ahead. And rent regulation -- however inefficiently -- does help many poor people.
Rent regulation is very likely to go away, eventually, even without any explicit effort to kill it. Some 231,000 units have been deregulated over the last 30 years. Every year, thousands more leave the program or are torn down, replaced by new condo buildings serving the wealthy. The number of market-rate units has been going up more quickly lately, and the pace will, most likely, only increase. Barring some unlikely shift in the economy or policy, Manhattan will have fewer and fewer poor people each year and almost none whatsoever in a few decades. What happens if all the rich people are on one island and the poor but creative are somewhere else? It might just destroy the strange admixture that makes Manhattan so appealing in the first place.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Manhattan has a bifurcated market for rental apartments.
2. Deregulation would help the middle class.
3. But it would get rid of all the poor people.
4. Manhattan could stagnate either way.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) (MM14-MM15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); STARVATION (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); MEAT FREE DIETS (71%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



837 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 6374 words

HEADLINE: Can't Anyone Here Play This Game?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MEIER

 BODY:
The last honest-to-God election in New York City began on the day the World Trade Center towers fell: 9/11 was Primary Day, till the voting booths shuttered that morning. And in the dozen years since, New Yorkers have witnessed a great buckling of the political landscape: three terms of Michael Bloomberg, coming after eight years of Rudolph Giuliani. Even if you stipulate, as the G.O.P. kingmakers know, that Rudy and Mike are not real Republicans, the fact remains: the most progressive city west of Amsterdam and east of San Francisco has not elected a Democrat since 1989. 
New York City stands at a crossroads. Things are good for many, but not for all. The balance between the positives and the hazards could swing either way. In the first couple of years after the Great Recession, the economy's growth, nearly 3 percent per year, outpaced the rise in national G.D.P. In 2011, 6.6 percent of the city's households had income greater than $200,000 a year, while a third of the city's population survives on Medicaid. Manhattan has become a tech rival to Silicon Valley, and bike lanes have come to Brownsville -- a Brooklyn neighborhood where 4 out of 10 residents live below the poverty line. Wall Street, Midtown and the N.Y.P.D. are happy. Crime continues to decline: only one precinct, in East New York, has more violent crime than the Upper East Side faced two decades ago. And the population is growing. For all the fears of jihad, the end of capitalism and the advent of superstorms, the years since 9/11 have witnessed the arrival of a new generation. Perhaps as many as a third of the city's residents did not live here a decade ago. And all those newcomers have contributed to the prize of this electoral season: the minority majority.
I followed the campaign for eight months, as the pack running for City Hall grew to a dozen. In pain and sympathy, I watched the marathon of mayoral forums -- there have been more than a hundred this year alone. And I've seen each of the candidates up close. I watched them on the stump, listened to them go off the record, observed them endure tales of complaint. They heard about the rise in racial profiling, public-school field tests, utility rates, pushcart-vendor fees and fatal subway pushings. They've debated the wisdom of punishing johns, deploying police drones and massacring rats. And they've vowed to wage war on post-Sandy mold, the inequality of garbage-removal services and the sufferings of Central Park carriage horses. Witnessed up close, the campaign engenders a creeping unease: the discomfort of watching an anesthetized body politic struggling to revive itself.
You feel it in the mounting groundswell of angst and aspiration: the palpable sense that, as Anthony Weiner told me, ''a pressure valve's being released.'' On the rarest of occasions, the candidates might even address the issues that are unlikely to gain headlines but that will pose urgent challenges to the victor. The list is long and growing: the public-employee unions -- 147 bargaining units -- working without contracts and hungering for retroactive pay; the rise in city pensions and health care payouts (pension obligations are projected to be more than $8 billion a year -- more than the city's combined operating budget for police, fire and corrections annually); the mayor's plan to rezone East Midtown (among other things, opening up 73 blocks around Grand Central to super-skyscrapers); the first phase of the emergency measures needed to harden the city ahead of the next Sandy (projected cost: $20 billion); the mess that is public housing (approximately 400,000 New Yorkers trying to survive in 334 developments, another 225,000 in Section 8 housing and the all-but-orphaned-by-Washington New York City Housing Authority, which has a backlog of 220,000 repairs and faces $6 billion in unmet capital needs, a black hole expected to more than double in five years).
And now a great wave of change is set to break over the city. Voters must choose not only the mayor but also the comptroller, public advocate, the borough presidents and nearly half of the City Council come this fall. The campaign is a carnival, and yet in rare bright moments, it can seem a hopeful, ennobling, pluralistic spectacle. For all the pandering and patronage, you also see flickers of unfashionable civic spirit, of New Yorkers devoted to their city. As much as he loved to be the engineer in charge, Bloomberg also took the two-steps-forward-one-and-a-half-steps-back gains of the Giuliani years and recast the city's image: from ungovernable to improvable. The worry that hangs over the longest race for City Hall in New York history is whether any of these 11 men and 1 woman can keep that prospect alive.
A NEW DAWN FOR THE DEMOCRATS
On the frigid night of Martin Luther King Jr.'s actual birthday, in January, the Rev. Al Sharpton was presiding over the year's first major Democratic mayoral forum. The House of Justice, the headquarters of his National Action Network, is no more than a storefront, its walls covered with outsize mirrors and enlarged portraits of Sharpton -- cover shots from the glory days. Nearly 400 men and women sat in coats on hard chairs, listening intently and, when spurred by a catch word or cue, heckling. Outside, on the snowy sidewalk of 145th Street, loudspeakers blasted the goings-on, and young men eating pizza slices leaned close to the building's fogged glass.
Five Democrats lined the stage, four of them men sitting in a grim row: John C. Liu, the comptroller and star of the city's emergent Asian communities, an erstwhile actuary whose campaign finances have been the subject of a federal investigation since 2009; Sal F. Albanese, a former schoolteacher and 15-year veteran of City Council, who claimed a war chest of $41,000 and a confidence that he is running on behalf of ''ordinary New Yorkers'' even as he remained unknown to nearly all in the audience (and, if the polls are to be believed, would-be voters); William C. Thompson Jr., Liu's predecessor as comptroller, a former president of the Board of Education (long before Bloomberg replaced it in the name of ''mayoral control''), who gained a measure of fame as the no-name who came within 4.6 percentage points of defeating Bloomberg the last time around; Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, holds an elected office few could define, and whose position, he admits, is largely a bully pulpit.
In the far corner, in a chair angled slightly askew, sat Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council for seven years and the politician who has been, depending on your vantage, either the mayor's most loyal partner or most powerful critic, and who had, not coincidentally, since she assumed the job, the best odds to succeed him in City Hall.
Sharpton has long since shed the bulk and anger that accompanied his rise in the political arena, in the days when he, too, once dreamed of the mayoralty. On this occasion he played the urbane host. He asked the candidates to address ''the distinct problems'' of ''the black and Latino communities.'' ''We live in the Big Apple,'' he said, and ''we can't get a bite.''
The candidates delivered their set pieces, but they formed an anxious chorus. They cherry-picked from one another, recycling glib hits on Bloomberg: his ''demonizing'' of teachers, ''union busting'' and ''subversion of democracy.'' They refrained, though, from lateral attacks.
When Thompson stood, his left hand dipped into a trouser pocket. The message was clear: The race is long, folks. I'm in no rush. At 60, ''Billy'' Thompson possesses a courtly bearing and a calm voice. The knock, as he knows well, is that he's too soft to win. (Soon after this gathering, I would hear Thompson defend himself before a group of business and civic leaders in Midtown: ''It's New York City,'' he said. ''If you don't scream and if you don't holler, you're 'mild-mannered.' If you don't try and throw someone down the stairs, you lack fire in the belly.'')
In Harlem, Thompson asked, ''What is it that distinguishes me from my colleagues?'' Then he answered, ''My background.'' He did not need to detail it: the crowd knew. Nearby sat political powers from the Bronx, Harlem and central Brooklyn. The few white faces present belonged mostly to the clutch of reporters, many in their 20s, huddled against a wall. Thompson lives in Harlem, but he grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, heir to a Brooklyn power broker. This election, the son insisted, was about two questions: ''Are we going to go down a different path, change direction? Are we going to have a mayor who represents all the people of the City of New York?'' The lines, though, did not bring down the house.
When Liu stood, he thrust a fist into the air before speaking. The comptroller possesses the bearing and subtlety of a linebacker. His square head is buzzed at the sides. He is, a rival strategist tells me with envy, the ''Energizer Bunny'' of the campaign. With a madcap populism, Liu is prone to disquisitions so extensive that a listener grows fearful of their destination. (He likes to warn of the coming ''feudalism,'' for instance, when ''the serfs and peasants are held hostage to the lords and barons, hoping and praying that they don't leave the city.'') His Flushing staccato can come rapid-fire, but he can also downshift in a moment, his voice slowing, as if freighted with compassion. In Harlem, the amplitude worked: Liu connected. He gave thanks to Reverend Sharpton and the legacy of Dr. King ''for giving me this level playing field.'' His ''incredible colleagues,'' he said, nodding to the cast on stage, ''have spent entire careers in politics and government.'' ''Their families,'' he added, gaining speed, ''have been in government. Me? I'm an immigrant.'' The line, unexpected and revelatory, scored the night's high note. ''Brother Liu,'' the shouts came. ''You tell it, Brother Liu.'' (On a later occasion he would go further: ''My neck,'' Liu would say, ''is still stamped 'Made in Taiwan.' '')
When de Blasio rose, it was hard at first to track his words. At 6-foot-5, he towered over the crowd. De Blasio may not be a graceful presence, but he is at home on the soapbox. As public advocate, he has posted 220 videos to date on his YouTube channel (with its 58 subscribers). He held the cord of the microphone in his left hand, à la Sinatra, as he unspooled a string of one-liners. He bemoaned that ''we're living a tale of two cities,'' denounced the mayor's ''ill-gotten gains'' (the third term) and insisted that he had ''stood up'' to Bloomberg. ''I have never hesitated to take him on,'' de Blasio thundered. ''I don't care how many billions he has.''
As her rivals took their turns, Quinn sat placidly in the corner. Yet when she spoke of Ray Kelly, the police commissioner, and said any mayor would be lucky to have him, the boos poured forth. She stood her ground, and by the evening's close, comporting herself, as always, more with the air of a hostess than coequal, the speaker bussed each of her rivals. The House of Justice emptied. Except for Liu, who stayed on, grinning, eager to shake the last hand.
WHY THE ONES WITH THE LEAST ARE SOUGHT AFTER THE MOST
Since winter, the Democrats have been fixated on the first finish line: the runoff. To win the primary on Sept. 10, a candidate must gain at least 40 percent of the vote. Among the Democrats, given the number of contestants, a runoff between the top two finishers -- to take place on Oct. 1 -- is all but assured. Despite the recent electoral history, registered Democrats still outnumber Republicans six to one in the city. As a result, it's tough to find any observer -- even among the real estate, finance or legal elites -- who does not expect the Democratic primary to signal the eventual winner on Nov. 5.
Historians, though, may look back at this election as the ''minority majority'' watershed -- when nonwhite voters made up as much as 58 percent of the Democratic primary, and a bit less of the general election. The 2010 census pegged the city's nonwhite population at 67 percent. In large part, the minority majority is immigrant. But it is by no means unified. Political scientists talk less about Catholics and Jews and Latinos and blacks now and more about a raft of surging forces: Orthodox Jews and Spanish-speaking Pentecostals, new arrivals from the Caribbean and South Asia.
This race will bring the trend lines, long coursing out of view, to the surface: the city's diversity is becoming ever more diverse. Manhattan is getting whiter, as the ethnic and religious mix of Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and even Staten Island deepens. The Asian community, as Liu told me, ''is growing rapidly -- everywhere.'' Asians, Liu insists, will make up 15 percent of the primary vote, while Stephen Levin, the City Council member whose district includes Williamsburg, predicts a 30 percent jump in turnout among the Satmar Hasidim.
The candidates will swear to the need to build coalitions. Race-based politics, they insist, are a thing of the past -- like the bosses who ruled Tammany or a billionaire willing to spend at least $174 on every vote, as Bloomberg did in 2009. But in practice they resort to the tactics of old: pitting the outer boroughs against Manhattan and playing to a perceived ethnic, religious or racial base. The demographics, though, foretell another reckoning. ''The realities of the minority majority have not yet been internalized,'' according to Bruce Gyory, a veteran political consultant. ''If a mayoral candidate starts with a white base,'' he wrote in an e-mail, ''to win a runoff or a two-person general election, they would have to carry 40 percent of the aggregate minority vote to win.'' On the other hand, Gyory continued, ''if a mayoral candidate begins with a unified minority base'' -- no easy feat, he noted -- ''they would need one-third of the white vote to win.'' When we first spoke, Gyory was without a horse in the race. By spring, he was advising the Thompson campaign.
TURNING GARBAGE INTO POLITICAL THEATER
On East 93rd Street, at a senior center in Yorkville Gardens, the smell of disinfectant floated up from the carpet, and the candidates came, one by one, to stand in the first-floor rec room, before a baby grand, to address another overflowing swarm. It was early on a cold, soggy Saturday in February. Liu, Thompson and de Blasio trooped through before Quinn. After her, Albanese would find the room nearly empty.
The attendees devoured Quinn. It was an ugly sight, a confluence of seniors and well-heeled professionals shouting her down. At issue was the city's plan to build a garbage facility on East 91st Street, inaptly named a marine transfer station. The dump on the edge of the East River was a sore point for the crowd. Garbage trucks would ascend to it along an access ramp cutting through Asphalt Green, home to the neighborhood's little-league and soccer fields.
''Hang on!'' Quinn yelled. ''If you want an answer, you have to listen. You can scream and yell. You could throw soft things after, but you have got to let me answer.'' The shouts only gained force. ''Not getting my vote!'' one woman near me cried. ''Not my vote either!'' another said.
Afterward, riding with her in her city Suburban, I marveled at the cool Quinn displayed in enemy territory. She knew, she told me, the reception would be chilly. Why then did she come? '' 'Cause you gotta go,'' she shot back, before going into a soliloquy on respect. But many in the crowd, I ventured, would seem to be her constituents: women, working and white. ''True,'' she said, but you can't always get everyone to agree. I reminded her of a phrase I'd heard her deploy often: We may not always agree, but if we sit at the table long enough, we can find a solution. She cut me short: ''There isn't a creative solution to everything.''
Days later, I noticed a headline in The Post, ''Posh East Side Trash Talkers Boo Quinn,'' then a glowing editorial titled ''Quinn's Trash Talk.'' ''Good for her,'' The Post gushed, ''for having the guts to speak the truth while standing in the lion's den.''
I'd been played. Quinn's team suggested I come. They wanted me to see the angry crowd, and the candidate with strength and principles who could stand up to it. It was a performance, I realized, intended to capture the spirit of the man Quinn reveres, and who had recently died: Ed Koch.
The speaker is a tangle of incongruities, a study in self-control and unfettered impulse. She can crack a knuckle in my presence, and apologize at once: ''I know, Kim hates it, too,'' she says, referring to Kim Catullo, the corporate lawyer she married last year. She can massage, backtrack and self-reveal, all in one breath. She alone among the candidates picks me out of a crowd, hastens to say hello. She is known too for a lack of polish. The tongue, to be sure, is salty. ''BlackRock is focused on veterans' [expletive],'' she said, when I noted a writing pad bearing the logo of the world's largest asset manager on her conference table. ''Stuff,'' she added with a smile, once again correcting herself.
Quinn can walk me through the brambles of the city budget, and the successive scandals over the byzantine City Council earmarks, the so-called slush-fund investigation -- a probe of the City Council's hidden use of money accounts with fictitious names -- and a separate inquiry into members' financial fraud that put three of her Council colleagues in prison. She can shed her porcelain veneer, turn testy, admit it and inspire sympathy. But for a candidate who has spent much of the race apparently preferring to see herself in the mayor's company than her competitors', Quinn bristles at comparisons with Bloomberg. ''The mayor and I have a great working relationship,'' she told me. ''We don't agree on everything, but we recognize that we're both two smart, competent people who have focused on where we could find agreement and commonality.''
THE NEW URBAN FEAR: MOLD
On a clear night in winter, the circus set up in East New York. Beneath hulking projects in the darkness beyond, the St. Paul Community Baptist Church glowed in a wash of klieg lights. A NY1 TV truck, about a dozen cops and a line of young whites marked the spot.
St. Paul's is cavernous; its vaulted wooden ceiling lends it the feel of a barn. Six candidates sat below. Two were Republicans: Joe Lhota, the newest entrant, and Tom Allon, at the time a community-newspaper and magazine executive. On a stage that has hosted every mayor since Koch, the six took on a single topic: housing.
''We expect all the candidates to say they're for affordable housing and for more senior housing and low-income housing,'' said the Rev. David Brawley, speaking into a headset microphone. ''But that ain't good enough.'' The facts, he said, tell an epic story, replete with highs and lows. The pastor raised the specter of 1977 -- the last time the city faced a race as wide open and diverse -- and what has been called the death spiral that threatened the city. But even Koch, the unlikely winner of that election, he hastened to add, built 190,000 units of affordable housing.
The candidates made their own vows -- at least 60,000 units over four years was the figure they settled on. Once again they rushed to outdo one another, and again revealed more similarities than differences. Lhota was strangely mute -- not uttering a word for the first 31 minutes. When at last he spoke, he fell quiet again within three minutes. Liu talked of ''unscrupulous landlords,'' echoing Quinn. De Blasio again lamented the ''tale of two cities.'' ''Remember the numbers,'' he roared. ''One percent of our pension-fund money goes into investments like affordable housing.'' Thompson reprised a favored line: ''We are being squeezed and priced out of the City of New York,'' before Quinn retold a keynote of what aides call ''her story'': ''My parents were able to rent a rent-controlled two-bedroom in Inwood.'' That's how, she said, they managed ''on a firefighter's salary to send their daughters to college.''
On it went, until a white man from South Brooklyn with cropped gray hair and a goatee spoke about life after Sandy: about sewage and seawater, mold and a FEMA trailer. His neighborhood, he said, might lose ''more homes after Sandy than during.'' Red pen in hand, de Blasio leapt to respond, offering a ''four-point plan to address the mold problem'' -- before Liu threw a jab. ''It's quite possible'' that Bloomberg, he said, ''does not know what mold is.''
Laughter filled the pews, but the night soon threatened to turn maudlin. Rossana from Brownsville spoke of more mold, her two daughters and son, and asthma. De Blasio said he could sympathize, pulling an inhaler from inside his suit coat. His family, too, suffers from asthma. Sandy was a disaster, he said. But the grim state of public housing in New York City goes back to its birth, he said: ''Because Robert Moses didn't like people of color, and didn't like poor people.''
Allon, though, might have scored the most one-liners. Early on, de Blasio turned to him and whispered, ''Jesus,'' and asked how he came up with them. ''Brevity,'' Allon replied, ''is the soul of wit.'' Months later, when I asked why he'd entered the race, Allon said, ''I thought a Jewish guy, son of Holocaust survivors, former public-school teacher, business entrepreneur, a reasonably articulate and thoughtful person, could do well.'' By then, however, he had dropped out.
TOO MANY REPUBLICANS?
One Sunday in late winter I went to the Clearview Golf Course clubhouse in Bayside, Queens, to spend the afternoon with the Northeast Queens Republican Club. For years, the Republican Party has cleared the field, getting the man, or woman, its leaders want to run. ''The state leadership has a pretty good handle on their people,'' says Bill Cunningham, a consultant who once worked for Pat Moynihan and served as Mayor Bloomberg's first spokesman. ''And they usually do as told.'' Not this time. By March, four men were in the race on the Republican side: Lhota; Allon; George T. McDonald, an advocate for the homeless and head of the Doe Fund; and John A. Catsimatidis, a billionaire known as ''the Gristedes guy'' but whose portfolio resembles an oligarch's: supermarkets, condo towers, airplanes and oil and gas. Catsimatidis wanted to run in 2009. He even had the nomination, he told me. But the mayor, he said, called him to his townhouse, and declared that he wanted to run. This time, Catsimatidis told me, there will be no retreat.
In Queens, after the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence for the troops, Lhota unfurled a brief story of his life. Behind him, a string of helium balloons formed a rainbow of red, white and blue. Before him, three dozen of the faithful sat in tight rows.
''New York City is in my blood,'' Lhota said. ''I'm one of the few candidates running who was actually born here.'' One grandfather was a firefighter; the other drove a cab. Lhota dresses ''smart,'' as it used to be said: fitted blue blazer, four brass buttons on the sleeves, striped tie, coral-blue shirt, trim copper-gray beard. A cue card tucked in his hands (names of locals to thank), he searched for connections to Queens. ''I was born in the Bronx, son of a New York City cop, a lieutenant, who came to the 105th Precinct, when promoted to sergeant, in Queens.'' Lhota is known as a tough guy, famous for flipping off a Times reporter, but when he speaks, his pursed lips betray an endearing lisp. ''I never did live in Queens,'' he said, ''but I took my freshman year at St. John's, in Jamaica -- so I did travel to Queens all the time.''
Lhota was here only to introduce himself. A former investment banker, he served Giuliani for eight years, ultimately as deputy mayor of operations -- ''basically,'' he said, ''the C.O.O. of the city.'' Lhota stood his progressive ground. ''I'm really at odds with the national party,'' he said. ''I never called myself a 'militant libertarian,' '' he assured one questioner. He was ''not pro-abortion,'' he added, but ''pro-choice.'' When a questioner bit hard, dragging him through his stance on everything from the 1999 Brooklyn Museum show that featured a painting of the Virgin Mary that incorporated elephant dung to Kendra's Law to expansions of the rights of the transgendered, Lhota delivered a calm reply, teeth clenched, without the hint of a smile.
One of the young Republicans, seated up front, asked about ''cutting red tape on the Second Amendment.''
''I have always been known to be someone who can cut red tape,'' Lhota said. ''But when it comes to having firearms in New York City, I am one of the people who believe, as the son of a cop, we need to be certain if you're going to own a firearm you need to get a background check.'' With a half-shake of the head, he added: ''I don't find that a violation of the Second Amendment. I'm sorry.'' Lhota had silenced not only the young Republican, but the whole room.
The afternoon ended as it opened. The club members repaired to the bar, where amid views of the half-frozen greens, they aired the question posed by the club chairman, who had introduced Lhota. ''Are Republicans relevant?''
Daniel Halloran was Lhota's host in Queens. A ruddy-faced, ginger-haired Republican, one of 4 in the 51-seat City Council, Halloran ran for Congress in 2012. He gained fame when it was revealed he was a Theodist, a follower of a neopagan faith that worships Norse gods, but he lost to Grace Meng, the first Asian in the city elected to Congress -- a triumph, spoken of in fear or delight, and plied as proof of the Asian muscle. Halloran winced, recalling how Meng's father was indicted days after her election for a bribery scheme. (In March, Jimmy Meng was sentenced to a month in jail after pleading guilty to wire fraud.) ''The problem isn't Grace per se,'' Halloran told me as Lhota waited his turn at the podium. ''The problem is the machine around the Asian candidates.'' It has, he added, ''been willing to cut corners.''
Within weeks, Halloran himself was arrested, awakened by F.B.I. agents, at his home in Queens. The preposterous scheme filled the tabloids: Malcolm Smith, a powerful state senator from Queens, who was also arrested, had been angling to buy a legal exemption to run in the Republican mayoral primary. Two days before Lhota appeared at the golf club, Halloran, prosecutors claim, accepted $5,000 in cash from an undercover agent. He took the money, the prosecutors said, for brokering meetings with Queens party bosses. Halloran was caught on tape, with an acknowledgment more honest than any I would hear in nearly 90 interviews. ''That's politics,'' he said. ''It's all about how much. Not about whether or will, it's about how much, and that's our politicians in New York, they're all like that, all like that. And they get like that because of the drive that the money does for everything else. You can't do anything without the [expletive] money.''
A NEW ATTRACTION AT THE CARNIVAL
At 6 a.m. on a muggy morning in late May, at the intersection of 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, the first TV truck pulled up. By 7:30, the number had grown to 10. There were videographers from Japan and reporters from Scandinavia.
Anthony Weiner stood across from an empty lot. One of the first hands he shook belonged to a toddler. His new communications director, Barbara Morgan, hovered close, after a first near-sleepless night on the job. A scattering of volunteers scurried around her, trying to look busy. ''Come on guys,'' she pleaded. ''We're doing the avail in five.''
Weiner's public debut, in a campaign long deemed impossible, lured a press scrum not seen since the N.Y.P.D. pulled Dominique Strauss-Kahn off an Air France plane at J.F.K. Passers-by could not come close to Weiner. Certainly not Wallace Smallwood. Smallwood, who was 48, was born in the South and raised in the South Bronx. He said he used to work in a parking garage in Midtown. For the last seven years, though, he'd been homeless. He had not come to see Weiner. He'd been on the street that morning, kicked out early from the shelter around the corner. Smallwood spoke softly. He had no interest in Weiner's use and abuse of social media. He had one simple question about shelters' services: ''Would he do a little more to help the coalition of single men, than just a run-in and run-out?''
A reporter displayed the morning's Daily News, holding up the mock cover buried inside. The headline screamed a reminder of the sexting scandal. Weiner leapt to volley. ''Actually, they did not put that on their front page,'' he said. ''Did they?''
''What I learned today here,'' he went on, ''is that people are going to make their determination based on the interests that they think are important. If citizens want to talk to me about my personal failings, that's their right, and I'm going to do everything I can to answer them.''
''Weiner!'' a young black man shouted, ''you got my vote, brother!''
After half an hour, Weiner was on the No. 2 downtown en route to his first radio interview as a candidate. The subway car filled with reporters eager to tweet his every word and movement. A woman wearing a black hijab tried to avert her eyes. ''It's too early for this,'' a white man in a suit grunted. Photographers stood on seats; one took to the floor. Through it all, Weiner tried to crack wise. ''It's kind of like being on injured reserve for two years,'' he said -- a refrain he would deploy often in the days to come. By Penn Station, few commuters remained, and the Muslim woman sneaked a peek.
At 8:44 a.m., back aboveground, the flood of drama, the high-water mark in the campaign to date, receded. What remained was a sad, diminished spectacle that revealed the atrophied state of our press corps and candidate pool. Weiner and a half-dozen young men and women, digital recorders aloft, marching down Seventh Avenue South. The wide sidewalks downtown were near empty, gray under grayer skies. The freakish buoyancy of the morning had given way to normalcy, a pre-summer morning in the late Bloomberg era: cyclists in suits, strollers two abreast en route to pre-K. In the campaign's first hour, Weiner had grabbed the hands of a few dozen citizens, been ribbed by commuters and construction workers and delivered mini-monologues on favored themes: a single-payer health care system for all New Yorkers and protecting the middle class.
On the subway platform, a poster advertised a new horror film: ''The Purge.'' And no matter how long I watched the candidate on his redemption tour, one of his frequent declarations lingered the longest. I heard it first on the No. 2 downtown. As the reporters poured out, and the commuters filled their wake, Weiner bid his fellow passengers goodbye. It seemed a nice gesture, but one that accidentally gave voice to the silent echo of his campaign. ''My apologies,'' he said, ''for the inconvenience.''
WHAT IS THIS RACE ABOUT?
Quinn walked out at 1 p.m. on a Wednesday in late May, wearing a steely blue jacket and gray slacks. It was a routine news conference -- nothing exciting. Twice a month, every year since she became speaker, Quinn has stood behind this lectern in the ''red room'' (a municipal imitation of the White House press room), its brass seal stamped with the year 1625 and emblazoned with a sailor (clothed), an Indian (naked but for a loincloth) and a wreath of Latin: Sigillum Civitatis Novi Eboraci (''The Seal of the City of New York''), to face the press. But this was Quinn's first time in public since Weiner joined the fray -- and almost immediately dispelled the idea that she had a lock on the race. (By May, Quinn had dropped in the polls from a high of 37 percent who supported her to 25 percent.)
The tableau of the Council members onstage -- an Italian-American, a Haitian-born American, a Chinese-American, an African-American with Caribbean roots and a Jewish Brooklynite -- was an undeniable reflection of the city itself: diversity, ego and inevitable imperfections. As they took turns at the lectern, enumerating the needs of constituents and thanking partners, Quinn measured out their allotted time with the affected ease of a talk-show host. The members got their cameos, but the stage, as always, was Quinn's.
At 1:23 p.m., she sounded the bell: ''Any questions on the legislation?'' City Hall reporters know the drill. They can pose questions pertaining only to the issues the speaker has voiced. Anything else -- anything off-topic -- must come at the end, in the final throes of the news conference.
By 1:26 p.m., the rainbow of Council members was gone. ''I'm gonna have to go off-topic here,'' Quinn said. A camerawoman in the back of the room shouted from behind her tripod: ''Do you have a comment about Weiner?''
On cue, Quinn uncorked a cackle. ''What a well-developed and, you know, a surprising question!'' She went on: ''Anthony Weiner has joined the race for mayor, as is his right to do. But that really doesn't change my perspective or plan in this race at all.''
She seemed to hold every facial muscle in check. ''Look, this is a race about the future of New York City.'' Her body stiffened, jaw tightened and arms locked onto the lectern. ''And from my perspective, the job of the next mayor is to make New York City a greater place for opportunity for all of those hardworking folks and hardworking families out there who're trying so hard to get to the middle class or stay in the middle class.''
Quinn flipped through her record of ''preventing the layoff of teachers,'' of fighting for the ''rights of tenants,'' of ''expanding manufacturing jobs in Brooklyn during the recession,'' of ''tangible results that have made people's lives better.'' But the air had changed. Those present witnessed a rare moment: the transformation of a politician. A speaker in cruise control had become a candidate in defensive-driver mode. Weiner was the catalyst, but the rumblings had been there for months -- the ''drag on her ability to take flight,'' as one strategist on the sidelines put it. For those who dislike Quinn, it's a wealth of negatives: blunt edges, a perceived coziness with developers, subservience to the mayor (above all, the Faustian entanglement on term limits). She gets things done, many argue, but at what cost?
''That's the record I'm running on,'' Quinn said. ''And regardless of who enters the race, there's no one in the race or no one on the horizon who, quite frankly, has a record as detailed and long as mine of delivering for New Yorkers. So that's what I'm gonna talk about.''
Except she was confronted by a stream of questions about Weiner. Could she rate the job he did in Washington? She balked: ''It's not my job to analyze Anthony Weiner's record.'' What did she think of his asking for ''a second chance''? She shot back: ''That's a question for voters and for New Yorkers to answer.'' And when a reporter persisted -- ''You shared your own experiences during your own difficulties. Do you think he deserves the second chance?'' -- she ended the show: ''You know, that's a question he's asked, and you know New Yorkers are gonna have to answer it. You know, I'm proud about what I've been able to overcome in my life by asking for help and getting help. But that's a question that happened with former Congressman Weiner that he's going to have to go out there and talk to New Yorkers about -- that very different situation. Thank you, thank you. . . .''
WAITING FOR A 'YUSUF'
Two clocks hang over the race. One marks time in the race for the mayoralty, the other in the battle to define the Bloomberg legacy. An actual ''countdown clock,'' as the mayor calls it, hangs in City Hall in the Bullpen, the warren of carrels where Bloomberg holds court. The clock, a red-light digital reminder on the wall in the snack corner, above the high-grain cereals and fresh-cut fruit, marks the mayor's remaining days in office and implores the staff to ''Make Every Day Count.''
The third term, the mayor's aides say, may end up as Bloomberg's most ambitious. The East Midtown rezoning is scheduled for a vote by year's end. (The rush is on, Liu says, ''to squeeze the money out of New York's air.'') But Bloomberg, the candidates note with more envy than dismay, has defied the politics of old. ''This mayor is a one-off,'' is how Lou Harris, the father of American political polling, now 92, put it to me. ''Bloomberg's destroyed whatever was still standing'' of machine politics, Harris added. ''He's broken all the rules, for a long time to come.'' Yet the mayor has also bequeathed a contradiction: the man who has everything cannot find a loyal heir.
Many of the candidates have been campaigning, as Thompson admitted, ''since Mike Bloomberg appeared on the scene.'' Act 1 was Quinn's coronation waltz: ''This is your year,'' Mickey Carroll, the veteran political reporter who runs the Quinnipiac polls, told her at Koch's funeral in February. Act 2 was the return of the prodigal son Weiner (a performance that began in this magazine). Today, as the curtain rises on Act 3, it may be easy to predict who'll lose but not who will win. As the numbers shift, each campaign fears ''a Yusuf,'' political shorthand for the shooting in the summer of 1989 of Yusuf Hawkins, the 16-year-old African-American killed by white youths in Bensonhurst.
''Things always happen to change the equation,'' Bill Cunningham told me. ''Something comes up that scrambles the race.'' The list is campaign lore: John Lindsay buried by the snowstorm of '69; Koch verging on a fourth term, until Hawkins's murder tipped the nomination to David Dinkins; and the unprecedented: a Wall Street entrepreneur, better known in Davos than the Bronx, who was double-digits behind the Democrats when the twin towers collapsed and spent $70 million to win the election. Three candidates -- Quinn, Weiner and Thompson -- lead the Democratic polls. In a rare moment, near winter's end, a strategist for one of them came clean. ''There is one thing that keeps me up at night,'' he said. ''It's the Big Question.'' I could hear the capital letters rise as his pitch dropped. ''What is that thing that's going to happen? Because you know it: anything can happen. And it always does. It's New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York City's insider mayoral candidates (left to right): John C. Liu, comptroller
Bill de Blasio, public advocate
Christine C. Quinn, speaker of City Council
William C. Thompson Jr., former comptroller. (MM28
MM29)
The Everyman: Sal F. Albanese, a former schoolteacher and councilman. (MM30)
The Billionaire: John A. Catsimatidis, owner of the Gristedes supermarket chain. (MM31)
The Wild Card: Anthony D. Weiner, who resigned from Congress after his Twitter humiliation, is strong in early polls. (MM32)
The Independent: Adolfo Carrión Jr., former Bronx borough president, left the Democratic Party to run for mayor. (MM33)
The Executive: Joseph J. Lhota, Republican and former M.T.A chairman. (MM34)
 The Pastor Erick J. Salgado, the f rst active minister since Al Sharpton in 1997 to run for mayor of New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE GILDEN/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); RACIAL PROFILING (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); RACE & RACISM (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); POPULATION GROWTH (53%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (73%); AL SHARPTON (59%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



838 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 6374 words

HEADLINE: Can't Anyone Here Play This Game?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MEIER

 BODY:
The last honest-to-God election in New York City began on the day the World Trade Center towers fell: 9/11 was Primary Day, till the voting booths shuttered that morning. And in the dozen years since, New Yorkers have witnessed a great buckling of the political landscape: three terms of Michael Bloomberg, coming after eight years of Rudolph Giuliani. Even if you stipulate, as the G.O.P. kingmakers know, that Rudy and Mike are not real Republicans, the fact remains: the most progressive city west of Amsterdam and east of San Francisco has not elected a Democrat since 1989. 
New York City stands at a crossroads. Things are good for many, but not for all. The balance between the positives and the hazards could swing either way. In the first couple of years after the Great Recession, the economy's growth, nearly 3 percent per year, outpaced the rise in national G.D.P. In 2011, 6.6 percent of the city's households had income greater than $200,000 a year, while a third of the city's population survives on Medicaid. Manhattan has become a tech rival to Silicon Valley, and bike lanes have come to Brownsville -- a Brooklyn neighborhood where 4 out of 10 residents live below the poverty line. Wall Street, Midtown and the N.Y.P.D. are happy. Crime continues to decline: only one precinct, in East New York, has more violent crime than the Upper East Side faced two decades ago. And the population is growing. For all the fears of jihad, the end of capitalism and the advent of superstorms, the years since 9/11 have witnessed the arrival of a new generation. Perhaps as many as a third of the city's residents did not live here a decade ago. And all those newcomers have contributed to the prize of this electoral season: the minority majority.
I followed the campaign for eight months, as the pack running for City Hall grew to a dozen. In pain and sympathy, I watched the marathon of mayoral forums -- there have been more than a hundred this year alone. And I've seen each of the candidates up close. I watched them on the stump, listened to them go off the record, observed them endure tales of complaint. They heard about the rise in racial profiling, public-school field tests, utility rates, pushcart-vendor fees and fatal subway pushings. They've debated the wisdom of punishing johns, deploying police drones and massacring rats. And they've vowed to wage war on post-Sandy mold, the inequality of garbage-removal services and the sufferings of Central Park carriage horses. Witnessed up close, the campaign engenders a creeping unease: the discomfort of watching an anesthetized body politic struggling to revive itself.
You feel it in the mounting groundswell of angst and aspiration: the palpable sense that, as Anthony Weiner told me, ''a pressure valve's being released.'' On the rarest of occasions, the candidates might even address the issues that are unlikely to gain headlines but that will pose urgent challenges to the victor. The list is long and growing: the public-employee unions -- 147 bargaining units -- working without contracts and hungering for retroactive pay; the rise in city pensions and health care payouts (pension obligations are projected to be more than $8 billion a year -- more than the city's combined operating budget for police, fire and corrections annually); the mayor's plan to rezone East Midtown (among other things, opening up 73 blocks around Grand Central to super-skyscrapers); the first phase of the emergency measures needed to harden the city ahead of the next Sandy (projected cost: $20 billion); the mess that is public housing (approximately 400,000 New Yorkers trying to survive in 334 developments, another 225,000 in Section 8 housing and the all-but-orphaned-by-Washington New York City Housing Authority, which has a backlog of 220,000 repairs and faces $6 billion in unmet capital needs, a black hole expected to more than double in five years).
And now a great wave of change is set to break over the city. Voters must choose not only the mayor but also the comptroller, public advocate, the borough presidents and nearly half of the City Council come this fall. The campaign is a carnival, and yet in rare bright moments, it can seem a hopeful, ennobling, pluralistic spectacle. For all the pandering and patronage, you also see flickers of unfashionable civic spirit, of New Yorkers devoted to their city. As much as he loved to be the engineer in charge, Bloomberg also took the two-steps-forward-one-and-a-half-steps-back gains of the Giuliani years and recast the city's image: from ungovernable to improvable. The worry that hangs over the longest race for City Hall in New York history is whether any of these 11 men and 1 woman can keep that prospect alive.
A NEW DAWN FOR THE DEMOCRATS
On the frigid night of Martin Luther King Jr.'s actual birthday, in January, the Rev. Al Sharpton was presiding over the year's first major Democratic mayoral forum. The House of Justice, the headquarters of his National Action Network, is no more than a storefront, its walls covered with outsize mirrors and enlarged portraits of Sharpton -- cover shots from the glory days. Nearly 400 men and women sat in coats on hard chairs, listening intently and, when spurred by a catch word or cue, heckling. Outside, on the snowy sidewalk of 145th Street, loudspeakers blasted the goings-on, and young men eating pizza slices leaned close to the building's fogged glass.
Five Democrats lined the stage, four of them men sitting in a grim row: John C. Liu, the comptroller and star of the city's emergent Asian communities, an erstwhile actuary whose campaign finances have been the subject of a federal investigation since 2009; Sal F. Albanese, a former schoolteacher and 15-year veteran of City Council, who claimed a war chest of $41,000 and a confidence that he is running on behalf of ''ordinary New Yorkers'' even as he remained unknown to nearly all in the audience (and, if the polls are to be believed, would-be voters); William C. Thompson Jr., Liu's predecessor as comptroller, a former president of the Board of Education (long before Bloomberg replaced it in the name of ''mayoral control''), who gained a measure of fame as the no-name who came within 4.6 percentage points of defeating Bloomberg the last time around; Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, holds an elected office few could define, and whose position, he admits, is largely a bully pulpit.
In the far corner, in a chair angled slightly askew, sat Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council for seven years and the politician who has been, depending on your vantage, either the mayor's most loyal partner or most powerful critic, and who had, not coincidentally, since she assumed the job, the best odds to succeed him in City Hall.
Sharpton has long since shed the bulk and anger that accompanied his rise in the political arena, in the days when he, too, once dreamed of the mayoralty. On this occasion he played the urbane host. He asked the candidates to address ''the distinct problems'' of ''the black and Latino communities.'' ''We live in the Big Apple,'' he said, and ''we can't get a bite.''
The candidates delivered their set pieces, but they formed an anxious chorus. They cherry-picked from one another, recycling glib hits on Bloomberg: his ''demonizing'' of teachers, ''union busting'' and ''subversion of democracy.'' They refrained, though, from lateral attacks.
When Thompson stood, his left hand dipped into a trouser pocket. The message was clear: The race is long, folks. I'm in no rush. At 60, ''Billy'' Thompson possesses a courtly bearing and a calm voice. The knock, as he knows well, is that he's too soft to win. (Soon after this gathering, I would hear Thompson defend himself before a group of business and civic leaders in Midtown: ''It's New York City,'' he said. ''If you don't scream and if you don't holler, you're 'mild-mannered.' If you don't try and throw someone down the stairs, you lack fire in the belly.'')
In Harlem, Thompson asked, ''What is it that distinguishes me from my colleagues?'' Then he answered, ''My background.'' He did not need to detail it: the crowd knew. Nearby sat political powers from the Bronx, Harlem and central Brooklyn. The few white faces present belonged mostly to the clutch of reporters, many in their 20s, huddled against a wall. Thompson lives in Harlem, but he grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, heir to a Brooklyn power broker. This election, the son insisted, was about two questions: ''Are we going to go down a different path, change direction? Are we going to have a mayor who represents all the people of the City of New York?'' The lines, though, did not bring down the house.
When Liu stood, he thrust a fist into the air before speaking. The comptroller possesses the bearing and subtlety of a linebacker. His square head is buzzed at the sides. He is, a rival strategist tells me with envy, the ''Energizer Bunny'' of the campaign. With a madcap populism, Liu is prone to disquisitions so extensive that a listener grows fearful of their destination. (He likes to warn of the coming ''feudalism,'' for instance, when ''the serfs and peasants are held hostage to the lords and barons, hoping and praying that they don't leave the city.'') His Flushing staccato can come rapid-fire, but he can also downshift in a moment, his voice slowing, as if freighted with compassion. In Harlem, the amplitude worked: Liu connected. He gave thanks to Reverend Sharpton and the legacy of Dr. King ''for giving me this level playing field.'' His ''incredible colleagues,'' he said, nodding to the cast on stage, ''have spent entire careers in politics and government.'' ''Their families,'' he added, gaining speed, ''have been in government. Me? I'm an immigrant.'' The line, unexpected and revelatory, scored the night's high note. ''Brother Liu,'' the shouts came. ''You tell it, Brother Liu.'' (On a later occasion he would go further: ''My neck,'' Liu would say, ''is still stamped 'Made in Taiwan.' '')
When de Blasio rose, it was hard at first to track his words. At 6-foot-5, he towered over the crowd. De Blasio may not be a graceful presence, but he is at home on the soapbox. As public advocate, he has posted 220 videos to date on his YouTube channel (with its 58 subscribers). He held the cord of the microphone in his left hand, à la Sinatra, as he unspooled a string of one-liners. He bemoaned that ''we're living a tale of two cities,'' denounced the mayor's ''ill-gotten gains'' (the third term) and insisted that he had ''stood up'' to Bloomberg. ''I have never hesitated to take him on,'' de Blasio thundered. ''I don't care how many billions he has.''
As her rivals took their turns, Quinn sat placidly in the corner. Yet when she spoke of Ray Kelly, the police commissioner, and said any mayor would be lucky to have him, the boos poured forth. She stood her ground, and by the evening's close, comporting herself, as always, more with the air of a hostess than coequal, the speaker bussed each of her rivals. The House of Justice emptied. Except for Liu, who stayed on, grinning, eager to shake the last hand.
WHY THE ONES WITH THE LEAST ARE SOUGHT AFTER THE MOST
Since winter, the Democrats have been fixated on the first finish line: the runoff. To win the primary on Sept. 10, a candidate must gain at least 40 percent of the vote. Among the Democrats, given the number of contestants, a runoff between the top two finishers -- to take place on Oct. 1 -- is all but assured. Despite the recent electoral history, registered Democrats still outnumber Republicans six to one in the city. As a result, it's tough to find any observer -- even among the real estate, finance or legal elites -- who does not expect the Democratic primary to signal the eventual winner on Nov. 5.
Historians, though, may look back at this election as the ''minority majority'' watershed -- when nonwhite voters made up as much as 58 percent of the Democratic primary, and a bit less of the general election. The 2010 census pegged the city's nonwhite population at 67 percent. In large part, the minority majority is immigrant. But it is by no means unified. Political scientists talk less about Catholics and Jews and Latinos and blacks now and more about a raft of surging forces: Orthodox Jews and Spanish-speaking Pentecostals, new arrivals from the Caribbean and South Asia.
This race will bring the trend lines, long coursing out of view, to the surface: the city's diversity is becoming ever more diverse. Manhattan is getting whiter, as the ethnic and religious mix of Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and even Staten Island deepens. The Asian community, as Liu told me, ''is growing rapidly -- everywhere.'' Asians, Liu insists, will make up 15 percent of the primary vote, while Stephen Levin, the City Council member whose district includes Williamsburg, predicts a 30 percent jump in turnout among the Satmar Hasidim.
The candidates will swear to the need to build coalitions. Race-based politics, they insist, are a thing of the past -- like the bosses who ruled Tammany or a billionaire willing to spend at least $174 on every vote, as Bloomberg did in 2009. But in practice they resort to the tactics of old: pitting the outer boroughs against Manhattan and playing to a perceived ethnic, religious or racial base. The demographics, though, foretell another reckoning. ''The realities of the minority majority have not yet been internalized,'' according to Bruce Gyory, a veteran political consultant. ''If a mayoral candidate starts with a white base,'' he wrote in an e-mail, ''to win a runoff or a two-person general election, they would have to carry 40 percent of the aggregate minority vote to win.'' On the other hand, Gyory continued, ''if a mayoral candidate begins with a unified minority base'' -- no easy feat, he noted -- ''they would need one-third of the white vote to win.'' When we first spoke, Gyory was without a horse in the race. By spring, he was advising the Thompson campaign.
TURNING GARBAGE INTO POLITICAL THEATER
On East 93rd Street, at a senior center in Yorkville Gardens, the smell of disinfectant floated up from the carpet, and the candidates came, one by one, to stand in the first-floor rec room, before a baby grand, to address another overflowing swarm. It was early on a cold, soggy Saturday in February. Liu, Thompson and de Blasio trooped through before Quinn. After her, Albanese would find the room nearly empty.
The attendees devoured Quinn. It was an ugly sight, a confluence of seniors and well-heeled professionals shouting her down. At issue was the city's plan to build a garbage facility on East 91st Street, inaptly named a marine transfer station. The dump on the edge of the East River was a sore point for the crowd. Garbage trucks would ascend to it along an access ramp cutting through Asphalt Green, home to the neighborhood's little-league and soccer fields.
''Hang on!'' Quinn yelled. ''If you want an answer, you have to listen. You can scream and yell. You could throw soft things after, but you have got to let me answer.'' The shouts only gained force. ''Not getting my vote!'' one woman near me cried. ''Not my vote either!'' another said.
Afterward, riding with her in her city Suburban, I marveled at the cool Quinn displayed in enemy territory. She knew, she told me, the reception would be chilly. Why then did she come? '' 'Cause you gotta go,'' she shot back, before going into a soliloquy on respect. But many in the crowd, I ventured, would seem to be her constituents: women, working and white. ''True,'' she said, but you can't always get everyone to agree. I reminded her of a phrase I'd heard her deploy often: We may not always agree, but if we sit at the table long enough, we can find a solution. She cut me short: ''There isn't a creative solution to everything.''
Days later, I noticed a headline in The Post, ''Posh East Side Trash Talkers Boo Quinn,'' then a glowing editorial titled ''Quinn's Trash Talk.'' ''Good for her,'' The Post gushed, ''for having the guts to speak the truth while standing in the lion's den.''
I'd been played. Quinn's team suggested I come. They wanted me to see the angry crowd, and the candidate with strength and principles who could stand up to it. It was a performance, I realized, intended to capture the spirit of the man Quinn reveres, and who had recently died: Ed Koch.
The speaker is a tangle of incongruities, a study in self-control and unfettered impulse. She can crack a knuckle in my presence, and apologize at once: ''I know, Kim hates it, too,'' she says, referring to Kim Catullo, the corporate lawyer she married last year. She can massage, backtrack and self-reveal, all in one breath. She alone among the candidates picks me out of a crowd, hastens to say hello. She is known too for a lack of polish. The tongue, to be sure, is salty. ''BlackRock is focused on veterans' [expletive],'' she said, when I noted a writing pad bearing the logo of the world's largest asset manager on her conference table. ''Stuff,'' she added with a smile, once again correcting herself.
Quinn can walk me through the brambles of the city budget, and the successive scandals over the byzantine City Council earmarks, the so-called slush-fund investigation -- a probe of the City Council's hidden use of money accounts with fictitious names -- and a separate inquiry into members' financial fraud that put three of her Council colleagues in prison. She can shed her porcelain veneer, turn testy, admit it and inspire sympathy. But for a candidate who has spent much of the race apparently preferring to see herself in the mayor's company than her competitors', Quinn bristles at comparisons with Bloomberg. ''The mayor and I have a great working relationship,'' she told me. ''We don't agree on everything, but we recognize that we're both two smart, competent people who have focused on where we could find agreement and commonality.''
THE NEW URBAN FEAR: MOLD
On a clear night in winter, the circus set up in East New York. Beneath hulking projects in the darkness beyond, the St. Paul Community Baptist Church glowed in a wash of klieg lights. A NY1 TV truck, about a dozen cops and a line of young whites marked the spot.
St. Paul's is cavernous; its vaulted wooden ceiling lends it the feel of a barn. Six candidates sat below. Two were Republicans: Joe Lhota, the newest entrant, and Tom Allon, at the time a community-newspaper and magazine executive. On a stage that has hosted every mayor since Koch, the six took on a single topic: housing.
''We expect all the candidates to say they're for affordable housing and for more senior housing and low-income housing,'' said the Rev. David Brawley, speaking into a headset microphone. ''But that ain't good enough.'' The facts, he said, tell an epic story, replete with highs and lows. The pastor raised the specter of 1977 -- the last time the city faced a race as wide open and diverse -- and what has been called the death spiral that threatened the city. But even Koch, the unlikely winner of that election, he hastened to add, built 190,000 units of affordable housing.
The candidates made their own vows -- at least 60,000 units over four years was the figure they settled on. Once again they rushed to outdo one another, and again revealed more similarities than differences. Lhota was strangely mute -- not uttering a word for the first 31 minutes. When at last he spoke, he fell quiet again within three minutes. Liu talked of ''unscrupulous landlords,'' echoing Quinn. De Blasio again lamented the ''tale of two cities.'' ''Remember the numbers,'' he roared. ''One percent of our pension-fund money goes into investments like affordable housing.'' Thompson reprised a favored line: ''We are being squeezed and priced out of the City of New York,'' before Quinn retold a keynote of what aides call ''her story'': ''My parents were able to rent a rent-controlled two-bedroom in Inwood.'' That's how, she said, they managed ''on a firefighter's salary to send their daughters to college.''
On it went, until a white man from South Brooklyn with cropped gray hair and a goatee spoke about life after Sandy: about sewage and seawater, mold and a FEMA trailer. His neighborhood, he said, might lose ''more homes after Sandy than during.'' Red pen in hand, de Blasio leapt to respond, offering a ''four-point plan to address the mold problem'' -- before Liu threw a jab. ''It's quite possible'' that Bloomberg, he said, ''does not know what mold is.''
Laughter filled the pews, but the night soon threatened to turn maudlin. Rossana from Brownsville spoke of more mold, her two daughters and son, and asthma. De Blasio said he could sympathize, pulling an inhaler from inside his suit coat. His family, too, suffers from asthma. Sandy was a disaster, he said. But the grim state of public housing in New York City goes back to its birth, he said: ''Because Robert Moses didn't like people of color, and didn't like poor people.''
Allon, though, might have scored the most one-liners. Early on, de Blasio turned to him and whispered, ''Jesus,'' and asked how he came up with them. ''Brevity,'' Allon replied, ''is the soul of wit.'' Months later, when I asked why he'd entered the race, Allon said, ''I thought a Jewish guy, son of Holocaust survivors, former public-school teacher, business entrepreneur, a reasonably articulate and thoughtful person, could do well.'' By then, however, he had dropped out.
TOO MANY REPUBLICANS?
One Sunday in late winter I went to the Clearview Golf Course clubhouse in Bayside, Queens, to spend the afternoon with the Northeast Queens Republican Club. For years, the Republican Party has cleared the field, getting the man, or woman, its leaders want to run. ''The state leadership has a pretty good handle on their people,'' says Bill Cunningham, a consultant who once worked for Pat Moynihan and served as Mayor Bloomberg's first spokesman. ''And they usually do as told.'' Not this time. By March, four men were in the race on the Republican side: Lhota; Allon; George T. McDonald, an advocate for the homeless and head of the Doe Fund; and John A. Catsimatidis, a billionaire known as ''the Gristedes guy'' but whose portfolio resembles an oligarch's: supermarkets, condo towers, airplanes and oil and gas. Catsimatidis wanted to run in 2009. He even had the nomination, he told me. But the mayor, he said, called him to his townhouse, and declared that he wanted to run. This time, Catsimatidis told me, there will be no retreat.
In Queens, after the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence for the troops, Lhota unfurled a brief story of his life. Behind him, a string of helium balloons formed a rainbow of red, white and blue. Before him, three dozen of the faithful sat in tight rows.
''New York City is in my blood,'' Lhota said. ''I'm one of the few candidates running who was actually born here.'' One grandfather was a firefighter; the other drove a cab. Lhota dresses ''smart,'' as it used to be said: fitted blue blazer, four brass buttons on the sleeves, striped tie, coral-blue shirt, trim copper-gray beard. A cue card tucked in his hands (names of locals to thank), he searched for connections to Queens. ''I was born in the Bronx, son of a New York City cop, a lieutenant, who came to the 105th Precinct, when promoted to sergeant, in Queens.'' Lhota is known as a tough guy, famous for flipping off a Times reporter, but when he speaks, his pursed lips betray an endearing lisp. ''I never did live in Queens,'' he said, ''but I took my freshman year at St. John's, in Jamaica -- so I did travel to Queens all the time.''
Lhota was here only to introduce himself. A former investment banker, he served Giuliani for eight years, ultimately as deputy mayor of operations -- ''basically,'' he said, ''the C.O.O. of the city.'' Lhota stood his progressive ground. ''I'm really at odds with the national party,'' he said. ''I never called myself a 'militant libertarian,' '' he assured one questioner. He was ''not pro-abortion,'' he added, but ''pro-choice.'' When a questioner bit hard, dragging him through his stance on everything from the 1999 Brooklyn Museum show that featured a painting of the Virgin Mary that incorporated elephant dung to Kendra's Law to expansions of the rights of the transgendered, Lhota delivered a calm reply, teeth clenched, without the hint of a smile.
One of the young Republicans, seated up front, asked about ''cutting red tape on the Second Amendment.''
''I have always been known to be someone who can cut red tape,'' Lhota said. ''But when it comes to having firearms in New York City, I am one of the people who believe, as the son of a cop, we need to be certain if you're going to own a firearm you need to get a background check.'' With a half-shake of the head, he added: ''I don't find that a violation of the Second Amendment. I'm sorry.'' Lhota had silenced not only the young Republican, but the whole room.
The afternoon ended as it opened. The club members repaired to the bar, where amid views of the half-frozen greens, they aired the question posed by the club chairman, who had introduced Lhota. ''Are Republicans relevant?''
Daniel Halloran was Lhota's host in Queens. A ruddy-faced, ginger-haired Republican, one of 4 in the 51-seat City Council, Halloran ran for Congress in 2012. He gained fame when it was revealed he was a Theodist, a follower of a neopagan faith that worships Norse gods, but he lost to Grace Meng, the first Asian in the city elected to Congress -- a triumph, spoken of in fear or delight, and plied as proof of the Asian muscle. Halloran winced, recalling how Meng's father was indicted days after her election for a bribery scheme. (In March, Jimmy Meng was sentenced to a month in jail after pleading guilty to wire fraud.) ''The problem isn't Grace per se,'' Halloran told me as Lhota waited his turn at the podium. ''The problem is the machine around the Asian candidates.'' It has, he added, ''been willing to cut corners.''
Within weeks, Halloran himself was arrested, awakened by F.B.I. agents, at his home in Queens. The preposterous scheme filled the tabloids: Malcolm Smith, a powerful state senator from Queens, who was also arrested, had been angling to buy a legal exemption to run in the Republican mayoral primary. Two days before Lhota appeared at the golf club, Halloran, prosecutors claim, accepted $5,000 in cash from an undercover agent. He took the money, the prosecutors said, for brokering meetings with Queens party bosses. Halloran was caught on tape, with an acknowledgment more honest than any I would hear in nearly 90 interviews. ''That's politics,'' he said. ''It's all about how much. Not about whether or will, it's about how much, and that's our politicians in New York, they're all like that, all like that. And they get like that because of the drive that the money does for everything else. You can't do anything without the [expletive] money.''
A NEW ATTRACTION AT THE CARNIVAL
At 6 a.m. on a muggy morning in late May, at the intersection of 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, the first TV truck pulled up. By 7:30, the number had grown to 10. There were videographers from Japan and reporters from Scandinavia.
Anthony Weiner stood across from an empty lot. One of the first hands he shook belonged to a toddler. His new communications director, Barbara Morgan, hovered close, after a first near-sleepless night on the job. A scattering of volunteers scurried around her, trying to look busy. ''Come on guys,'' she pleaded. ''We're doing the avail in five.''
Weiner's public debut, in a campaign long deemed impossible, lured a press scrum not seen since the N.Y.P.D. pulled Dominique Strauss-Kahn off an Air France plane at J.F.K. Passers-by could not come close to Weiner. Certainly not Wallace Smallwood. Smallwood, who was 48, was born in the South and raised in the South Bronx. He said he used to work in a parking garage in Midtown. For the last seven years, though, he'd been homeless. He had not come to see Weiner. He'd been on the street that morning, kicked out early from the shelter around the corner. Smallwood spoke softly. He had no interest in Weiner's use and abuse of social media. He had one simple question about shelters' services: ''Would he do a little more to help the coalition of single men, than just a run-in and run-out?''
A reporter displayed the morning's Daily News, holding up the mock cover buried inside. The headline screamed a reminder of the sexting scandal. Weiner leapt to volley. ''Actually, they did not put that on their front page,'' he said. ''Did they?''
''What I learned today here,'' he went on, ''is that people are going to make their determination based on the interests that they think are important. If citizens want to talk to me about my personal failings, that's their right, and I'm going to do everything I can to answer them.''
''Weiner!'' a young black man shouted, ''you got my vote, brother!''
After half an hour, Weiner was on the No. 2 downtown en route to his first radio interview as a candidate. The subway car filled with reporters eager to tweet his every word and movement. A woman wearing a black hijab tried to avert her eyes. ''It's too early for this,'' a white man in a suit grunted. Photographers stood on seats; one took to the floor. Through it all, Weiner tried to crack wise. ''It's kind of like being on injured reserve for two years,'' he said -- a refrain he would deploy often in the days to come. By Penn Station, few commuters remained, and the Muslim woman sneaked a peek.
At 8:44 a.m., back aboveground, the flood of drama, the high-water mark in the campaign to date, receded. What remained was a sad, diminished spectacle that revealed the atrophied state of our press corps and candidate pool. Weiner and a half-dozen young men and women, digital recorders aloft, marching down Seventh Avenue South. The wide sidewalks downtown were near empty, gray under grayer skies. The freakish buoyancy of the morning had given way to normalcy, a pre-summer morning in the late Bloomberg era: cyclists in suits, strollers two abreast en route to pre-K. In the campaign's first hour, Weiner had grabbed the hands of a few dozen citizens, been ribbed by commuters and construction workers and delivered mini-monologues on favored themes: a single-payer health care system for all New Yorkers and protecting the middle class.
On the subway platform, a poster advertised a new horror film: ''The Purge.'' And no matter how long I watched the candidate on his redemption tour, one of his frequent declarations lingered the longest. I heard it first on the No. 2 downtown. As the reporters poured out, and the commuters filled their wake, Weiner bid his fellow passengers goodbye. It seemed a nice gesture, but one that accidentally gave voice to the silent echo of his campaign. ''My apologies,'' he said, ''for the inconvenience.''
WHAT IS THIS RACE ABOUT?
Quinn walked out at 1 p.m. on a Wednesday in late May, wearing a steely blue jacket and gray slacks. It was a routine news conference -- nothing exciting. Twice a month, every year since she became speaker, Quinn has stood behind this lectern in the ''red room'' (a municipal imitation of the White House press room), its brass seal stamped with the year 1625 and emblazoned with a sailor (clothed), an Indian (naked but for a loincloth) and a wreath of Latin: Sigillum Civitatis Novi Eboraci (''The Seal of the City of New York''), to face the press. But this was Quinn's first time in public since Weiner joined the fray -- and almost immediately dispelled the idea that she had a lock on the race. (By May, Quinn had dropped in the polls from a high of 37 percent who supported her to 25 percent.)
The tableau of the Council members onstage -- an Italian-American, a Haitian-born American, a Chinese-American, an African-American with Caribbean roots and a Jewish Brooklynite -- was an undeniable reflection of the city itself: diversity, ego and inevitable imperfections. As they took turns at the lectern, enumerating the needs of constituents and thanking partners, Quinn measured out their allotted time with the affected ease of a talk-show host. The members got their cameos, but the stage, as always, was Quinn's.
At 1:23 p.m., she sounded the bell: ''Any questions on the legislation?'' City Hall reporters know the drill. They can pose questions pertaining only to the issues the speaker has voiced. Anything else -- anything off-topic -- must come at the end, in the final throes of the news conference.
By 1:26 p.m., the rainbow of Council members was gone. ''I'm gonna have to go off-topic here,'' Quinn said. A camerawoman in the back of the room shouted from behind her tripod: ''Do you have a comment about Weiner?''
On cue, Quinn uncorked a cackle. ''What a well-developed and, you know, a surprising question!'' She went on: ''Anthony Weiner has joined the race for mayor, as is his right to do. But that really doesn't change my perspective or plan in this race at all.''
She seemed to hold every facial muscle in check. ''Look, this is a race about the future of New York City.'' Her body stiffened, jaw tightened and arms locked onto the lectern. ''And from my perspective, the job of the next mayor is to make New York City a greater place for opportunity for all of those hardworking folks and hardworking families out there who're trying so hard to get to the middle class or stay in the middle class.''
Quinn flipped through her record of ''preventing the layoff of teachers,'' of fighting for the ''rights of tenants,'' of ''expanding manufacturing jobs in Brooklyn during the recession,'' of ''tangible results that have made people's lives better.'' But the air had changed. Those present witnessed a rare moment: the transformation of a politician. A speaker in cruise control had become a candidate in defensive-driver mode. Weiner was the catalyst, but the rumblings had been there for months -- the ''drag on her ability to take flight,'' as one strategist on the sidelines put it. For those who dislike Quinn, it's a wealth of negatives: blunt edges, a perceived coziness with developers, subservience to the mayor (above all, the Faustian entanglement on term limits). She gets things done, many argue, but at what cost?
''That's the record I'm running on,'' Quinn said. ''And regardless of who enters the race, there's no one in the race or no one on the horizon who, quite frankly, has a record as detailed and long as mine of delivering for New Yorkers. So that's what I'm gonna talk about.''
Except she was confronted by a stream of questions about Weiner. Could she rate the job he did in Washington? She balked: ''It's not my job to analyze Anthony Weiner's record.'' What did she think of his asking for ''a second chance''? She shot back: ''That's a question for voters and for New Yorkers to answer.'' And when a reporter persisted -- ''You shared your own experiences during your own difficulties. Do you think he deserves the second chance?'' -- she ended the show: ''You know, that's a question he's asked, and you know New Yorkers are gonna have to answer it. You know, I'm proud about what I've been able to overcome in my life by asking for help and getting help. But that's a question that happened with former Congressman Weiner that he's going to have to go out there and talk to New Yorkers about -- that very different situation. Thank you, thank you. . . .''
WAITING FOR A 'YUSUF'
Two clocks hang over the race. One marks time in the race for the mayoralty, the other in the battle to define the Bloomberg legacy. An actual ''countdown clock,'' as the mayor calls it, hangs in City Hall in the Bullpen, the warren of carrels where Bloomberg holds court. The clock, a red-light digital reminder on the wall in the snack corner, above the high-grain cereals and fresh-cut fruit, marks the mayor's remaining days in office and implores the staff to ''Make Every Day Count.''
The third term, the mayor's aides say, may end up as Bloomberg's most ambitious. The East Midtown rezoning is scheduled for a vote by year's end. (The rush is on, Liu says, ''to squeeze the money out of New York's air.'') But Bloomberg, the candidates note with more envy than dismay, has defied the politics of old. ''This mayor is a one-off,'' is how Lou Harris, the father of American political polling, now 92, put it to me. ''Bloomberg's destroyed whatever was still standing'' of machine politics, Harris added. ''He's broken all the rules, for a long time to come.'' Yet the mayor has also bequeathed a contradiction: the man who has everything cannot find a loyal heir.
Many of the candidates have been campaigning, as Thompson admitted, ''since Mike Bloomberg appeared on the scene.'' Act 1 was Quinn's coronation waltz: ''This is your year,'' Mickey Carroll, the veteran political reporter who runs the Quinnipiac polls, told her at Koch's funeral in February. Act 2 was the return of the prodigal son Weiner (a performance that began in this magazine). Today, as the curtain rises on Act 3, it may be easy to predict who'll lose but not who will win. As the numbers shift, each campaign fears ''a Yusuf,'' political shorthand for the shooting in the summer of 1989 of Yusuf Hawkins, the 16-year-old African-American killed by white youths in Bensonhurst.
''Things always happen to change the equation,'' Bill Cunningham told me. ''Something comes up that scrambles the race.'' The list is campaign lore: John Lindsay buried by the snowstorm of '69; Koch verging on a fourth term, until Hawkins's murder tipped the nomination to David Dinkins; and the unprecedented: a Wall Street entrepreneur, better known in Davos than the Bronx, who was double-digits behind the Democrats when the twin towers collapsed and spent $70 million to win the election. Three candidates -- Quinn, Weiner and Thompson -- lead the Democratic polls. In a rare moment, near winter's end, a strategist for one of them came clean. ''There is one thing that keeps me up at night,'' he said. ''It's the Big Question.'' I could hear the capital letters rise as his pitch dropped. ''What is that thing that's going to happen? Because you know it: anything can happen. And it always does. It's New York.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York City's insider mayoral candidates (left to right): John C. Liu, comptroller
Bill de Blasio, public advocate
Christine C. Quinn, speaker of City Council
William C. Thompson Jr., former comptroller. (MM28
MM29)
The Everyman: Sal F. Albanese, a former schoolteacher and councilman. (MM30)
The Billionaire: John A. Catsimatidis, owner of the Gristedes supermarket chain. (MM31)
The Wild Card: Anthony D. Weiner, who resigned from Congress after his Twitter humiliation, is strong in early polls. (MM32)
The Independent: Adolfo Carrión Jr., former Bronx borough president, left the Democratic Party to run for mayor. (MM33)
The Executive: Joseph J. Lhota, Republican and former M.T.A chairman. (MM34)
 The Pastor Erick J. Salgado, the first active minister since Al Sharpton in 1997 to run for mayor of New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE GILDEN/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); RACIAL PROFILING (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); VIOLENT CRIME (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); RACE & RACISM (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); POPULATION GROWTH (53%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (73%); AL SHARPTON (59%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



839 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL | LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: The 7.14.13 Issue

 BODY:
GOLF IN CHINA IS YOUNGER THAN TIGER WOODS, BUT GROWING UP FAST
I guess this is intended as a story about a child prodigy and meant to stimulate discussion about whether or not children should be raised like this. For me, however, this is foremost a story about income inequality and about a country (and world) with messed-up priorities. How about using all this wealth to make China a better place for the millions of wage slaves and farmers living in squalid conditions? How about training this boy to become a doctor or scientist rather than a golfer? 
 TOM M, New York, posted on nytimes.comTo people who think that training children at a young age to play golf is child abuse -- really? Have you ever played golf? It's fun. Sure, the training regimen sounds pretty intense, but it's a given if you want to excel at any sport. What kid would rather go to school than play golf all day? I would have traded places with these Chinese kids in an instant if I had the chance. ALENA ZHU, London, posted on nytimes.comAlways nice to read about an 8-year-old who drives it farther than I. The real reason to fear China. @captainwhackyTHE CHELSEA HOTEL HAD ITS OWN ELOISEI grew up in New York in the '70s with parents who were artists, in a rent-controlled apartment. When my parents weren't dancing with Martha Graham or on Broadway, they existed on unemployment. There were no frills, but there was an abundance of riches. We were raised in museums, concerts and art studios. I was not poor, nor was Gaby Hoffmann. Now my own child, raised in Brooklyn, wants to begin a creative career. Where can he use his talents and live affordably? My son may well have to pursue his artistic vision in Cleveland, Detroit, upstate or out West. It's an uncalculated loss that so many talented people are no longer able to make New York their home. CATHERINE HODES, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.comThe notion that Manhattan has been somehow pre-empted by the rich is easy enough to believe. But it is countered by a walk through my neighborhood around Herald Square and by my interactions with people of all ages. They seem to have more of the spirit that people miss from the fabled '80s. STEPHEN C. ROSE, New York, posted on nytimes.comYES, THE AIRLINE BUSINESS IS TAKING OFF IN SOMALIAI was just in Somalia for a week, flying on the U.N. Humanitarian Air Service route from Nairobi, which stops in Galkayo, Garowe and Bossaso. There are regular commercial routings from Nairobi to Mogadishu as well. Clearly, the Somali diaspora and humanitarian assistance work from NGOs and development agencies are helping to make this air service viable. But Somalia is big. The nation is the size of Texas, with one of the longest coastlines in Africa. Most of the country can be reached only over rough gravel or rubble, accessible by 4x4s or camels. Clearly, air travel is needed to enable the country to rebuild economically and stabilize politically. Someday, there might be hotels on the coast of Puntland and Somaliland, and people will be flying there. MICHAEL ZWIRN, Washington, posted on nytimes.comHere is a good example of businessmen as unsung heroes providing a useful service. Most people love to hate them when they become rich and successful, but most of business life is about putting everything on the line and struggling for years on the slim chance that you might hit it big. TK, Hoboken, N.J., posted on nytimes.comJIMMY WALES IS NOT AN INTERNET BILLIONAIREWhen I read Amy Chozick's portrayal of Jimmy Wales in the Sunday magazine (June 30), I was dismayed by its focus on money and status. The piece seemed to mock Wales for not getting sufficiently rich from Wikipedia, and yet simultaneously criticize him for enjoying his fairly modest fame and fortune. Such a missed opportunity. The purpose of journalism is to help people better understand our world, and one way to do that is to intelligently question conventional wisdom. Instead, Chozick's piece seems to uncritically accept and perpetuate the narrowest, most pedestrian possible perspective on the Internet: that its main utility is to make people rich, and that anybody who doesn't exploit it for that purpose is perhaps an oddball, and a bit suspect. SUE GARDNER, Executive Director, Wikimedia Foundation
Always nice to read about an 8-year-old who drives it farther than I. The real reason to fear China. @captainwhacky about young golfers in China, via Twitter; E-MAIL letters to magazine@nytimes .com or post comments at nytimes.com /magazine. Letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. We are unable to acknowledge or return unpublished submissions. Letters and comments are edited for length and clarity. The address of The New York Times Magazine is 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY LAW/REDUX) GRAPHICS: ANALYTICS: Growing Up Too Fast
 GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY ZHANG HONGTU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); CHILDREN (90%); ATHLETES (79%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); RENT CONTROL (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); AIRLINES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (68%) SOMALIA (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



840 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Lindy Boggs, Longtime Representative And Champion of Women, Is Dead at 97

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN; Ravi Somaiya contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Lindy Boggs, who succeeded her husband in the House of Representatives after his plane crashed in Alaska and who went on to serve nine terms on Capitol Hill, notably as a champion of women's rights, died on Saturday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 97.
Her daughter, the ABC News commentator Cokie Roberts, confirmed the death.
In 1976, Mrs. Boggs became the first woman to preside over a Democratic National Convention. Three years earlier, she had become the first woman from Louisiana elected to the House. 
Her victory came in a special election in which she campaigned to succeed her husband, Hale, a powerful member of the House who had served there for 28 years, the last two as majority leader. He was presumed dead when a plane in which he was a passenger disappeared while he was campaigning with Representative Nick Begich in Alaska in the fall of 1972.
Mrs. Boggs gained her husband's seat in no small part on the strength of his name. The special election was held in March 1973; Mr. Boggs had been re-elected the previous November, even though he was presumed dead.
But Mrs. Boggs's own experience did not hurt. She knew the ways of the capital as an astute political wife from a family whose political lineage reached back to George Washington's time and included governors of Louisiana and Mississippi.
Her own children found public renown in their own right: her daughter, Ms. Roberts, as a Washington journalist for ABC and National Public Radio; her son, Thomas Hale Boggs Jr., as an influential Washington lawyer and lobbyist; and another daughter, Barbara Boggs Sigmund, who died in office as the mayor of Princeton, N.J.
In her 1994 memoir, ''Washington Through a Purple Veil: Memoirs of a Southern Woman,'' written with Katherine Hatch, Mrs. Boggs wrote that she had learned an important lesson as a political wife and as a politician herself: ''You played the Washington game with confidence and authority and graciousness.''
The velvet Southern charm she had absorbed growing up on two Louisiana plantations was her not-so-secret weapon.
She displayed it early in her first term when the House banking committee was composing an amendment to a lending bill banning discrimination on the basis of race, age or veteran status. She added the words ''sex or marital status,'' ran to a copying machine and made a copy for each member.
In her memoir she recalled saying: ''Knowing the members composing this committee as well as I do, I'm sure it was just an oversight that we didn't have 'sex' or 'marital status' included. I've taken care of that, and I trust it meets with the committee's approval.''
Thus was sex discrimination prohibited by the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974.
Mrs. Boggs used her membership on the Appropriations Committee to push for other women's economic concerns, like equal pay for government jobs and equal access to government business contracts. She became a champion of historic preservation and port development, flood control and housing in her New Orleans district.
She also fought for higher pay for senators and representatives, a politically unpopular cause, because she thought it would raise the quality of legislators and reduce turnover.
Mrs. Boggs hated offending anyone, she wrote in her memoir, and so taking strong stands did not come easily. But ''maybe'' was not a voting option, she added; only ''aye'' or ''nay.''
Mrs. Boggs championed racial justice at a time when doing so invited the resentment if not hostility of most Southern whites. She saw the growing civil rights movement as necessary to the political reform movement of the 1940s and '50s.
''You couldn't want to reverse the injustices of the political system and not include the blacks and the poor; it was just obvious,'' she said in 1990.
While her husband was in office, she supported civil rights legislation as well as Head Start and antipoverty programs. As the president of two organizations of Congressional wives, she saw to it that each group was racially integrated.
After her district was redrawn in 1983, giving blacks a majority, Mrs. Boggs was re-elected three times. In the first of these victories, in 1984, she captured more than a third of the black vote in defeating a popular black politician, Israel M. Augustine Jr., a former state judge, who was backed by black political organizations. When she announced her retirement from Congress in 1990, she was the only white member of Congress representing a black-majority district.
Her national profile was raised in 1976 when Robert S. Strauss, the chairman of the Democratic Party, chose her to preside over the party's 1976 national convention in Manhattan, where Jimmy Carter became the presidential nominee. In 1984 she was often mentioned as a possible vice-presidential candidate, but she was ultimately passed over by the presidential nominee, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, in favor of Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro. Mrs. Boggs believed that her strong stand against abortion had hurt her chances.
In 1991, a room that had been used as the House speaker's office in the 19th century was named the Lindy Claiborne Boggs Congressional Women's Reading Room.
Marie Corinne Morrison Claiborne was born on March 13, 1916, on a sugar plantation in Pointe Coupee Parish, La., the only child of Roland Philemon Claiborne, a lawyer, and the former Corinne Morrison. The name Lindy was a shortening of Rolindy, the nickname she was given by a nurse, who thought she looked more like her father than her mother.
Beginning with Thomas Claiborne, a Virginia congressman when George Washington was president, every generation of Mrs. Boggs's family had at least one public officeholder.
Lindy's father died when she was 2. Her mother remarried when Lindy was 7, and the newly constituted family moved to a prosperous cotton plantation.
After attending Roman Catholic schools, Lindy Claiborne entered Sophie Newcomb College, the women's branch of Tulane University, at 15. At a dance in 1934, she once said in an interview, a young man cut in while she was dancing. As they made their way around the floor, Thomas Hale Boggs said, ''I'm going to marry you someday.''
She and Mr. Boggs both worked on the Tulane newspaper, The Hullabaloo, she as the women's editor and he as the editor in chief. After graduation, he went to Tulane Law School, and she taught history and English in Romeville, La. They married in New Roads on Jan. 22, 1938, in a ceremony with 15 bridesmaids and 15 groomsmen.
In 1940, Mr. Boggs, at 26, was elected to Congress as a reform candidate. He lost a re-election effort in 1942 but regained the seat in 1946, the beginning of 22 consecutive victories by him or his wife.
Mrs. Boggs quickly learned to navigate Washington. She managed her husband's campaigns and oversaw his Capitol Hill office. She also organized voter registration efforts and various events for President Lyndon B. Johnson's 1964 campaign. She was the first woman to manage two inaugural balls -- for John F. Kennedy in 1961 and for Mr. Johnson four years later. She was also known for hosting more than 1,000 guests at Washington garden parties and, remarkably, doing the cooking herself.
Mrs. Boggs left Congress in 1990 to help her daughter Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Princeton mayor, deal with eye cancer, an ocular melanoma, which had spread to other parts of her body. Mrs. Sigmund died that year.
Besides her son and Ms. Roberts, Mrs. Boggs is survived by eight grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
In 1997, President Bill Clinton appointed Mrs. Boggs ambassador to the Vatican. The post was known for its sober decorum, but Mrs. Boggs would have none of that. The morning after she arrived to take up the job, she was informed that she was to be seated that night at a table filled with nothing but cardinals. She mulled that over and said, ''I think I'll wear red.''
At another point, she exchanged three phone calls in one day with an Italian archbishop on a minor piece of Vatican diplomacy. Picking up the receiver for the last time, she said, ''Dahlin', does this mean we're going steady?''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2013

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Sunday about Lindy Boggs, who succeeded her husband in the House of Representatives after he died in a plane crash and who served nine terms on Capitol Hill, referred incorrectly in some copies to legislation in 1965 that she supported while her husband was in office. The legislation is known as the Voting Rights Act, not the Civil Rights Act.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Richard M. Nixon congratulated Lindy Boggs in 1973 after she was sworn in as a congresswoman from Louisiana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WOMEN (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (86%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); PHOTOCOPIERS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (64%); WRITERS (64%); APPROVALS (61%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (60%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



841 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Back Onstage, With a Vengeance

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Trent Reznor was not happy. Sitting ramrod straight, dressed in a black T-shirt and black shorts, he was staring with grim concentration as his band, Nine Inch Nails, worked through their set in a full-scale production rehearsal at the Los Angeles Sports Arena. Smoke, strobe lights and video screens on wheels restlessly reconfigured themselves as the band performed, without Mr. Reznor's lead vocals and instruments. Through song after song, his glare and scowl barely wavered; he'd look away only to tap notes into his laptop. After the band ran through the full set, he convened the musicians and technicians in a back room, well away from a visiting journalist.
''I don't like having to yell at people,'' he said the next day. ''But I was letting them know the severity of the situation.'' A lot had to shape up, and very soon.
In the course of a daylong tech rehearsal, some of it would. Powerful stage lights would no longer wash out video screens; the speed and density of interactive displays featuring cascades of virtual particles would be adjusted; the ''chaos'' and ''turbulence'' Mr. Reznor and his art director, Rob Sheridan, wanted to arise in each song would be calibrated to their specifications. 
In 10 days Nine Inch Nails would be on tour for the first time since 2009, when Mr. Reznor had his band ''disappear for a while,'' as he wrote on the band's Web site. ''Hesitation Marks'' (Columbia), a new Nine Inch Nails album that sounds radically different from the guitar-driven blasts of aggression that the band released before the hiatus, is due for release on Sept. 3.
''Hesitation Marks'' -- the term for the self-inflicted wounds of people contemplating suicide -- veers toward the electronic and the pointillistic, and it reveals its anxieties and longings more subtly than much of the Nine Inch Nails catalog. It looks back, from a distance of two decades, on ''The Downward Spiral,'' Mr. Reznor's 1994 masterpiece that contemplated self-destruction and suicide during a period of personal and career turmoil; it became Nine Inch Nails' musical and commercial breakthrough. It also, in the long run, will test how fans respond to a more grown-up Nine Inch Nails. ''I'm proud of it,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''What fear I had -- of 'What does Nine Inch Nails have to say in 2013?' -- this is it. I don't feel like it's trying to force something into the wrong container.''
The band is introducing a few of the new songs before the album's release as it plays headlining slots at 14 summer festivals worldwide, including Lollapalooza in Chicago on Friday, Outside Lands in San Francisco on Aug. 10 and Made in America in Philadelphia on Sept. 1. It released a single, ''Came Back Haunted,'' in June, with a video clip directed by David Lynch.
Mr. Reznor isn't easing back into performing. Most bands play festivals with a bare-bones production, for quick setup on a shared stage. His is making a far more elaborate comeback. The show brings dizzying visual effects to an idea borrowed, Mr. Reznor freely admits, from the 1983 Talking Heads tour, filmed as ''Stop Making Sense.'' Mr. Reznor starts out onstage alone, and the band gradually assembles around him. From there, the visuals escalate. ''We're always pushing the envelope,'' said Roy Bennett, the band's longtime lighting and production designer. ''We've always tried to make people think and keep them on edge and keep them wondering what's going on.''
The trajectories of lights and video screens, pushed around by the road crew, are so complex that the tour has them choreographed -- with time-code cues -- to avoid collisions and tangled power cords. (But the band, Mr. Reznor pledged, has ''no dance moves.'')
After the festival shows, Nine Inch Nails will mount an entirely different production with three weeks of rehearsals in September, to headline arenas through much of the next year. ''The fact that we're doing all this only for these few shows, and then we have to do it over again, throwing all this out to do a completely new thing, with new things that won't work,'' Mr. Reznor said, ''that feels a little insane.''
But he was determined to make the return of Nine Inch Nails memorable. ''O.K. is not acceptable,'' he said. ''Strangely, we're bigger now than we were ever before. When we put the single out, and we put tickets on sale, the question mark was answered. This is the biggest it's ever been. Maybe it's scarcity or time away.''
Mr. Reznor, 48, has been a taboo-smashing songwriter with music that meticulously blends melody and abrasion, ferocity and detail. Since 1989, when Nine Inch Nails released its debut album, ''Pretty Hate Machine,'' Mr. Reznor has been recording songs that exorcise pain, fear and rage as they embrace extremes. In the 1990s, he melded styles that had segregated themselves -- electronica, punk, metal, pop melody -- to give voice to bitter alienation and self-lacerating fury, the urge to annihilate himself or the world. His music can be ominous, brutal, danceable, noisy and still, amid the fray, tuneful. In the studio, the band is largely Mr. Reznor on his own; for tours, he hires band members to rework his meticulous productions as visceral live rock.
''My incentive originally for making music was just a way to cathartically get this out,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''Then I discovered, in the process of doing it, that some ugliness led to some element of beauty. And the process made me feel better. And then when I saw people responded to it and could relate to it -- I'm projecting here, but they may have felt less alone.''
But the pressures Mr. Reznor put on himself in his 20s were overwhelming. As he was making albums that would influence a generation of musicians, he succumbed to drug and alcohol abuse until, in 2001, he went through rehab and sobered up. It was, he said, ''threat of death, gun to your head -- do this or you're going to die.''
He was more levelheaded, and less tormented, when he re-emerged in 2005 and released the aptly titled ''With Teeth,'' and returned to touring and recording. Newly prolific, Mr. Reznor made another two albums during that decade -- ''Year Zero,'' a concept album about a dystopian future, in 2007, and ''The Slip'' in 2008 -- as well as a 2008 collection of three-dozen instrumentals, ''Ghosts I-IV.'' When he made ''The Slip'' available free online -- ''This one's on me,'' he wrote on the Web site -- 2.4 million copies were downloaded, while a deluxe physical package sold another quarter of a million copies. Clearly, fans still cared.
But onstage in mid-June of 2009, at the Bonnaroo festival in Tennessee, Mr. Reznor suddenly announced that Nine Inch Nails' set there would be its ''last show ever in the United States.'' He added: ''Don't be sad. I'll keep going. But I think I'm going to lose my'' -- an emphatic word -- ''mind if I keep doing this, and I have to stop.'' Nine Inch Nails went on to tour Europe and played a final concert in Los Angeles, then lay low.
''After several years in a row of pretty consistently touring, I felt kind of burned out,'' Mr. Reznor said at the arena. ''I felt tired of the format. It was starting to feel stale to me.''
He married the singer Mariqueen Maandig in October 2009, and they now have two sons, Lazarus and Balthazar; he's taking the entire family on tour with him. (His dressing room at the arena held two playpens.)
His plans to set music aside briefly for other pursuits didn't last. The director David Fincher had used some of the ''Ghosts'' instrumentals as temporary scoring for scenes from ''The Social Network,'' and he persuaded Mr. Reznor -- collaborating with his co-producer and studio wizard Atticus Ross -- to write a full new score for the film. That music won an Academy Award; by then, Mr. Reznor and Mr. Ross had signed on to score Mr. Fincher's next film, ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.''
Film scoring was in some way a relief, Mr. Reznor said. ''It was nice being treated respectfully and being in service to something that, at the end of the day, it isn't mine,'' Mr. Reznor said. ''It's his worry.''
But songwriting beckoned. Mr. Reznor resumed in 2010 with How to Destroy Angels, a collaboration with Ms. Maandig, Mr. Ross and Mr. Sheridan, that ended up touring this spring with its own eye-popping production. He was also writing and recording new Nine Inch Nails songs.
Mr. Reznor said he had ''The Downward Spiral'' in mind as he was working on the lyrics and tone of ''Hesitation Marks.'' (Russell Mills, an artist fascinated by natural processes like erosion and decay, ended up creating the album covers for both.) ''I felt very aware that it's 20 years later, and I'm still that guy,'' he said. ''I know that guy, and I feel for him. I don't resent him, I don't miss him. But how would things feel on the other side of that now, in a much more stable life place, mentally and physically, and with a new family?''
He added: ''The incentive has changed. It's not about, 'I'm going to kill myself if I don't get this out of my head.' But the excavation and the architecture behind it, the motivation behind it, is similar.''
''Hesitation Marks'' was a year of patient effort. Mr. Reznor composed music on his laptop, using it largely as a drum machine and coming up with austere, brittle, sneakily evolving grooves. ''It feels sparse, and it feels minimal,'' he said. ''It's hard for me to do that. I've realized over the years that if I have 100 tracks, I'll use 110 tracks. This was really about economy. It was just a weird puzzle of grooves.''
And in the context of the Nine Inch Nails catalog, where a whisper tends to lead, sooner or later, to a scream, Mr. Reznor found himself following other impulses. ''It didn't dawn on me until I was almost done with the record that I don't really even raise my voice on this album that much,'' Mr. Reznor added. ''The mechanism of screaming choruses doesn't exist here. And that wasn't by design.''
He said: ''I don't think it's a gentle record. I do think it's more subversive in how it gets you. It's not about everything being at 11 and the pyrotechnics of sound and scare tactics, which I've definitely used in the past. But it doesn't feel like the middle-aged, I've-given-up record either.''
Early in the recording process, Mr. Reznor brought in collaborators from outside the usual sphere. He recorded extensively with the guitarist Adrian Belew, who had worked with David Bowie and King Crimson and played with Talking Heads in the early 1980s. (Mr. Belew joined, then left, the tour rehearsals. ''It didn't work,'' he wrote on Facebook.) Mr. Reznor also did sessions with the bassist Pino Palladino, who had helped construct the slinky grooves on D'Angelo's album ''Voodoo,'' and with Lindsey Buckingham, Fleetwood Mac's guitarist.
Mr. Buckingham and Mr. Reznor spent one day in the studio, with Mr. Buckingham jamming on multiple tracks; his playing ended up in three songs. ''There was a bit of a kindred spirit there even though the styles were different,'' Mr. Buckingham said by telephone from Hawaii. ''His process was something like a painting process like I work, where you're slopping colors around and looking for clues, and it becomes a subconscious process in which the work reveals itself to you.''
As the album took shape, surprising songs emerged. One, ''Find My Way,'' is an overt prayer. And the album's final song with words, ''While I'm Still Here,'' faces up to mortality yet ends up with thoughts not of apocalypse or alienation, but of quiet connection: ''Stay with me, hold me near, while I'm still here,'' Mr. Reznor sings.
He thought hard about how that would fit the Nine Inch Nails canon. ''To include it as the final emotional ending point of the record, that ties things together -- that's daring for me,'' he said. ''It would be safe if I made it uglier and noisier. It's not safe. So I think that maybe it's the right thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, top, and, from left, with Marilyn Manson in 2000
rehearsing in Los Angeles for the band's first tour since 2009
and with his wife, Mariqueen Maandig, when he won an Oscar for scoring ''The Social Network,'' in 2011. The new Nine Inch Nails album, ''Hesitation Marks,'' is due Sept. 3. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BUSINESS WIRE
ROB SHERIDAN
 PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RECORD RELEASES (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); WRITERS (69%); SUICIDE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013



842 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Can Genetic Engineering Save the Orange, and Vice Versa?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: An orange grower&#8217;s wise and promising search for a gene that can save citrus from a spreading scourge. 

 BODY:
Updated, July 29, 3:17 p.m. | 
"It's not where a gene comes from that matters," one researcher said. "It's what it does."
This is one of a hundred valuable lines in Amy Harmon's prize-worthy feature exploring a Florida orange grower's quest for a gene that can save the citrus industry from a global bacterial threat. The article is "A Race to Save the Orange by Altering Its DNA."
I urge you to read the piece, share it with others and discuss how this particular research effort might play out. There are lots of scenarios, some troubling, some hopeful. Here's how I summarized things on Twitter: 
Superb @amy_harmon story: Florida man's quest for gene that can save the orange. http://t.co/riZYbIZ2Y2 Could success demystify #GMO tech?
- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)28 Jul 13
Normalization of the role of genetic modification in agriculture - and a fadeout for "frankenfood" campaigns - is most likely to come as consumers realize the varied applications of this versatile, and increasingly vital, technology.
A valuable section of the article explores what Harmon calls the "Monsanto effect" - the tendency of anti-corporate sentiment to poison any discussion of genetically modified crops. [A recent Slate post showed how one can challenge big companies and support genetics in agriculture.]
See what you think, and feel.
 Postscripts:
 9:18 a.m. | On the other side of the world, similar issues are simmering around "golden rice" - a yellow variant of this keystone grain containing a gene that adds beta-carotene, the main dietary source of vitamin A. Read or listen to Dan Charles's recent NPR report to get caught up. (This postscript was prompted by a Twitter reaction to Harmon's story.)
 10:55 a.m. | On Twitter Amy Harmon described how she began her research after reading Paul Voosen's article about Hawaii's papaya industry and genetic engineering:
@voooos your great Gonsalves profile, sent to me by @pcronald, was the genesis of my story on #GMO oranges http://t.co/NSHA3GAbOz
- Amy Harmon (@amy_harmon)28 Jul 13
 July 29, 3:10 p.m. | Andrew Pollack reports on an industry effort to build consumer confidence:
With pressure growing to label genetically modified foods, the developers of biotechnology crops are starting a campaign to gain support for their products by promising new openness.
The centerpiece of the effort is a Web site that is expected to go into operation on Monday to answer virtually any question posed by consumers about genetically engineered crops. The site, GMOAnswers.com, is also expected to include safety data about the crops similar to that submitted to regulatory agencies.
"We have not done a very good job communicating about G.M.O.'s," or genetically modified organisms, said Cathleen Enright, executive director of the Council for Biotechnology Information, which will run the site. "We want to get into the conversation." [Read the rest.]

        
New Shade of Green: Stark Shift for Onetime Foe of Genetic Engineering in Crops
        
DNA from Tiger Scat Aids Conservation Efforts in Nepal
        
Six French Science Academies Dismiss Study Finding GM Corn Harmed Rats
        
Group Promoting Rat Study of Engineered Corn Forced Coverage Rush
        
A Closer Look at 'Nonhuman Personhood' and Animal Welfare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (94%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); ORANGE GROVES (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DNA (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BIOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); CITRUS GROVES (71%); PESTICIDES (67%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Agriculture and Farming; DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid); Florida; Genetic Engineering; genetically modified organisms; Genetics and Heredity; Harmon, Amy; Oranges; Pesticides; Agriculture; Food; genetics

COMPANY: ORANGE SA (91%); MONSANTO CO (55%)

TICKER: ORAN (NYSE) (91%); ORA (PAR) (91%); MON (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%)

PERSON: Harmon, Amy

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



843 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Microsoft's Struggle to Make Things Simple for Consumers

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Microsoft has been trying to shed its reputation for highlighting features over simplicity, but old habits are proving hard to break. 

 BODY:
 In March 2006, a parody video asked, "What if Microsoft made the iPod?" The clip began with an image of the real packaging for an iPod, that familiar white box with a single picture of the music player. Then, bit by bit, it added what would happen if Microsoft got involved.
By the end of three minutes, the dainty music player had been renamed the iPod Pro 2005 XP Human Ear Professional Edition With Subscription, and the stark box was sullied with stickers and jargon promoting almost every technical feature on the device. A design inspired by modernist architecture (think the Guggenheim Museum) was turned into a gaudy billboard (think a trinket store in Times Square). 
In recent years, Microsoft has been trying to shed its reputation for trumpeting features over simplicity, but old habits are proving hard to break. Yes, Microsoft has released products like the Xbox and Windows Phone 7 that were intuitive to consumers and marketed with a fair amount of finesse. But far too often, the company has tried to create products for the modern consumer with a mind-set from the information technology back room.
And there are consequences for this disconnect beyond satirical videos. Microsoft said this month that it was taking a $900 million write-down for unsold inventory of the Surface RT tablet, which went on sale less than a year ago.
Just thinking about the Microsoft Surface tablets is a head-scratcher. The company offered two products, the Surface RT and the Surface Pro. One came with a pen. They both had USB ports, microSDXC card slots, HD video ports, flip-back stands, different screen resolutions and two types of Windows software.
If all that confused you, you are not alone. While the technologically savvy most likely lapped up those features, average consumers did not.
"Windows is a hammer, and everything looks like a nail" to Microsoft, said Ryan Block, a former editor at Engadget and a co-founder of Gdgt, a gadget Web site. "You can look at the Surface, which is the best example; they created this totally blown-out tablet based around Windows and Windows-like experiences that didn't translate" for most people.
Microsoft enthusiasts and some pundits came to the company's defense last week, saying that the Surface had failed because the iPad hit the market years earlier and had too much of a head start.
Maybe. But I have a different theory: the Surface failed because Microsoft confused consumers who didn't want to think about RT or Pro or what version of Windows their new device would run.
"The people in Redmond have a fundamental misunderstanding of what users are looking for, which is not speeds and feeds," said J. P. Gownder, a vice president and principal analyst at Forrester Research. (Microsoft is based in Redmond, Wash.)
"Speeds and feeds" is an old trade magazine term for the technical specifications of a new PC. Fifteen years ago, that a computer was a little bit faster or had more memory than the last version was a very big deal. The string of numbers and jargon on the side of a computer's box was a sort of runic code that made sense to I.T. managers or tech-savvy relatives coerced into helping the less sophisticated. It told them what to buy.
That is just not the case anymore. Consumers demand something that is easy to understand, and they got that in products like the iPad.
There is one flaw in the theory that Microsoft's tablet did not catch on because the iPad was already popular: Microsoft was late to the game, but it was hardly late to the idea. The company helped popularize the term "tablet PC" when Bill Gates introduced one in 2000 at the annual Comdex computer show in Las Vegas.
But it was Apple, a decade later, that figured out how to simplify the tablet and sell it to mainstream customers.
Microsoft says one of the reasons the company does offer all of these features - and feels the need to explain its gigahertz and gigabytes - is that it has to market its products to small businesses and I.T. professionals, and they still obsess over bigger, better, faster.
That's where technology culture runs into consumer culture, and the two clash.
Frank X. Shaw, Microsoft's vice president for corporate communications, said the company was trying to do something about that. He said Microsoft had made great strides to instill a more balanced culture of design, marketing and engineering, and executives there said a reorganization announced this month would inspire more consumer-friendly offerings.
Microsoft said it was dissolving its eight product divisions in favor of four new ones arranged around more specific themes. "To execute, we've got to move from multiple Microsofts to one Microsoft," Steven A. Ballmer, the company's chief executive, told my colleague Nick Wingfield in an interview.
"Are we an engineering-focused culture? Yes, we are, and that's good. Most great technology companies, at their core, have a deep engineering bias," Mr. Shaw said. "One of the goals is to make sure we have a more singular vision for what we're offering to people."
A few months after the satirical iPod video first drew attention online, Microsoft acknowledged that it had been responsible for the video. Turns out, it was meant to be circulated internally to show how the company needed to change its culture.
I asked Mr. Shaw about the iPod clip, and he said Microsoft had evolved from an insular technology culture to one that is more aware of customers' needs.
"I think we're significantly better," he said, while acknowledging that the company still had work to do. "The question is, How do you mirror engineering with equally strong skills in design and marketing? If you're overly strong in any of those areas, odd things can happen."
He's right. Odd things like Microsoft's convoluted Surface tablets.
 E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com

        
Google Debuts an Updated Nexus 7 Tablet
        
As Detroit Wobbles, So Does Microsoft
        
Two Tales of Plummeting Prices
        
Microsoft Moves to Simplify 3-D Printing
        
Google Asks Secret Court for Permission to Publish National Security Request Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%) Computers and the Internet; Microsoft Corporation; Tablet Computers

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corporation

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



844 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: A New Role for Amazon: An Engine for Jobs

BYLINE: NICK WINGFIELD


HIGHLIGHT: American technology companies like Apple have been criticized for outsourcing manufacturing of their gadgets to China, rather than employing people to do the work in the United States. But one tech icon, Amazon, plans to announce it is creating more than 5,000 new full-time jobs in its United States warehouses to handle growing customer demand, as the Internet retailer seeks to draw more attention to the working-class jobs it is creating at home. 

 BODY:
American technology companies like Apple have been criticized for outsourcing manufacturing of their gadgets to China, rather than employing people to do the work in the United States. But one tech icon, Amazon, is seeking to call attention to the thousands of working-class jobs it's creating in the United States. 
On Monday, Amazon plans to announce it is creating more than 5,000 new full-time jobs in its United States warehouses to handle growing customer demand. The company currently employs more than 20,000 warehouse workers here, so the new positions represent a significant increase in its head count.
Amazon's announcement is timed to coincide with a speech on middle-class jobs that President Obama is expected to give Tuesday at an Amazon warehouse in Chattanooga, Tenn.
The jobs will be in warehouses in 10 states, from Delaware to California.
For a tech company, Amazon is an unusual hybrid of white- and blue-collar jobs. It employs plenty of computer scientists, MBAs and all the usual types found at technology companies. But it also relies on tens of thousands of people to do the sweaty, physical work of picking, packing and delivering Amazon orders. Those are jobs Amazon can't outsource to China (though the company, like nearly all electronics makers, does have its electronic device, the Kindle, made overseas).
How great those jobs are is a matter of some debate. The working conditions in an Amazon warehouse in Pennsylvania, including excessive heat, was the subject of aninvestigative article in 2011 by The Morning Call newspaper in Lehigh Valley. The company says it remedied the heat problem by installing air-conditioning in its facilities. Amazon has also resisted union organizing at its warehouses.
Amazon said median pay in its warehouses is 30 percent higher than retail pay in those same areas. That doesn't include the stock grants full-time employees receive, which over the past five years have added an average of 9 percent to workers' base pay annually.
The sheer numbers of people Amazon is hiring has obviously landed the company on the radar screen of politicians stumping for job growth. Since September 2008, around the start of the most recent recession, Amazon said it has added more than 40,000 jobs in the United States, including warehouse and white-collar jobs.
Just last week, Amazon reported that it has 97,000 full-time employees around the globe, an eye-popping 40 percent increase from a year ago. The additional 5,000 positions it plans to hire for will push its global head count above 100,000.
By contrast, Apple reported its head count was over 72,000 at the end of last September. Microsoft has over 99,000 employees. Hewlett-Packard has more than 300,000 employees; I.B.M. has over 400,000 workers.
But Amazon was founded in 1994, decades after those other companies. It has certainly gotten big, fast.

        
Technology Workers Are Young (Really Young)
        
Amazon Rejected as Domain Name After South American Objections
        
Daily Report: Apple Ruling Strengthens Amazon's Powerful Hand
        
The Money Side of Driverless Cars
        
The Price of Amazon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (52%) Amazon.com Inc; Labor and Jobs; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Retailing

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (56%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



845 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of July 29

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released will include pending home sales for June (Monday); the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index for May and the consumer confidence index for July (Tuesday); the first estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product, ADP employment for July, and the Chicago Purchasing Manager Index report for July (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, Institute for Supply Management data for July and auto sales for July (Thursday); and the United States unemployment report for July, factory orders for June and consumer spending for June (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include Express Scripts (Monday); Aflac, Banco Santander, Barclays, Deutsche Bank, Fiat, Merck, Pfizer, and UBS (Tuesday); Allstate, Anheuser-Busch, BNP Paribas, CBS, Comcast, EADS, MasterCard, MetLife, Volkswagen and Whole Foods Market (Wednesday); American International Group, BMW, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil, Kellogg, Lloyds Banking Group, The New York Times Company, Procter & Gamble and Société Générale (Thursday); and Allianz, Axa, Chevron, Royal Bank of Scotland, Toyota Motor and Viacom (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the civil fraud trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, a former trader at Goldman Sachs, continues.
On Tuesday, the Federal Open Market Committee, headed by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, begins a two-day meeting, with a statement on monetary policy to be released on Wednesday; the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Jo White, and the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Gary Gensler, are scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking Committee about how the Dodd-Frank Act is being carried out; and President Obama is scheduled to speak on the economy in Chattanooga, Tenn.
On Wednesday, the Treasury will announce its quarterly refunding plans.
On Thursday, the International Trade commission is expected to release a final decision on Apple's patent-infringement case against Samsung Electronics.
On Friday, Dell is scheduled to hold its twice-adjourned shareholder meeting on a proposed buyout of the computer company by its founder, Michael S. Dell, and the private equity firm Silver Lake.
OVERSEAS On Monday, BMW will show off a production version of its i3 electric car in Beijing, London and New York.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will release statements on monetary policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); FUTURES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); SILVER MARKETS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US DODD FRANK ACT (69%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (61%); PATENTS (50%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); APPLE INC (81%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (68%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (68%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (56%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (56%); AFLAC INC (56%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); AXA (56%); PFIZER INC (56%); BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); ALLIANZ SE (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (51%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (53%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); NYT (NYSE) (68%); RBS (NYSE) (68%); RBS (LSE) (68%); RBS (AMS) (68%); GS (NYSE) (58%); EAD (PAR) (56%); EAD (MCE) (56%); TYT (LSE) (56%); TM (NYSE) (56%); 7203 (TSE) (56%); AFL (NYSE) (56%); 8686 (TSE) (56%); SANT (LIS) (56%); SANT (BIT) (56%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (56%); SAN (NYSE) (56%); SAN (MCE) (56%); SAN (BMV) (56%); BNC (LSE) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); CS (PAR) (56%); AXJ (ASX) (56%); AXA (BIT) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); WFM (NASDAQ) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); ALV (FRA) (55%); ALV (BIT) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); SMSN (LSE) (51%); 005930 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); MARY JO WHITE (53%); FABRICE P TOURRE (53%); MICHAEL DELL (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (52%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



846 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Promised Better Life By Beauty Schools, Graduates Have Little Training and Lasting Debt

BYLINE: By EMILY S. RUEB; Jack Styczynski contributed research.

 BODY:
The debt collectors call so often that Amarilis Madera knows them by name. For years, they have threatened to take her possessions and drain her bank account. In February, her $5,000 tax refund was seized.
''I needed that money to live,'' Ms. Madera, 49, a mother of three, said recently through a translator. ''I almost lost my apartment.''
Her financial burden was caused not by reckless spending, but by a decision she made more than 17 years ago and deeply regrets: enrolling at the Jon Louis School of Beauty in the Bronx.
The school promised a steady career and a way out from the factories where she had worked since arriving from the Dominican Republic. 
But it was a sham.
Instead of receiving a scholarship, basic training and job placement, Ms. Madera struggled to gain a footing into the beauty industry and eventually fell into a financial morass that she has been unable to escape.
Hundreds of women in New York City, and maybe more, are in similar straits because they attended cosmetology schools like Jon Louis, the Wilfred Academy of Hair and Beauty Culture, and Robert Fiance Hair Design in the 1980s and 1990s.
''It would have been worth it for a school that gave me a future,'' said Ms. Madera, who makes about $25,000 a year working at a day care center in the Bronx.
All three schools have been closed for years after accusations and indictments that they misused federal student loan money.
''The proprietors of these schools retained the profit from taxpayer dollars, but these individuals are the ones left holding the bag,'' said Eileen Connor, a lawyer with the New York Legal Assistance Group, a nonprofit organization that is representing dozens of women who attended these schools.
In 1990, Maria Machado, 49, signed up for Wilfred Academy in Jamaica, Queens, because it promoted itself in the Hispanic community as a place where single mothers could begin a lucrative career.
Wilfred Academy, one of the nation's oldest and largest trade school franchises with several branches in New York, put up posters near welfare offices, at bus stops and in subway stations. It ran television advertisements featuring three perky women in a salon singing into curling irons, ''It's a beautiful life when you love what you do!''
The company went out of business in the early 1990s after it was found guilty of falsifying applications for federal student loans and misusing federal loan money.
The day Ms. Machado enrolled in 1990, a well-manicured woman in heels ushered her upstairs to fill out paperwork, telling her not to worry about the cost. Ms. Machado did not speak English, and had completed only the sixth grade in El Salvador.
''I wanted a better future for my kids,'' Ms. Machado said. ''I trusted them.''
Ms. Machado said the school did not prepare her for the state's licensing exam, and like many of her peers, she never passed it, eventually abandoning her beauty career after a brief stint washing hair and emptying the trash at a salon.
It was not until several years later, when the government seized her tax refunds after she applied for citizenship, that she discovered she was several thousand dollars in debt.
In February, Ms. Machado saw a news segment on Univision, the Spanish-language television network, about a woman whose $50,000 debt for the Wilfred academy was erased.
That led her and other women to connect with the New York Legal Assistance Group, which has sent letters to the United States Department of Education on their behalf, requesting refunds, restoration of credit and immediate discharge of the debt.
The legal group is basing its requests on the so-called false-certification discharge, a provision on student loans that allows forgiveness for loans disbursed after January 1986 if it can be proved that the schools falsely certified that the students without high school diplomas or G.E.D.'s could benefit from the courses.
Ms. Connor, the lawyer for the legal group, said the Education Department should take ''proactive and common-sense'' steps to contact all debtors who may be eligible for discharge because it was aware that the schools were fraudulent.
''They have this information, which they use for collection, but when it comes time to educate debtors, they don't,'' Ms. Connor said.
Last month, after receiving calls about the loans from The New York Times, the Education Department agreed to discharge 17 loans for Wilfred graduates and is considering two discharge applications for Jon Louis graduates.
Stephen Spector, a spokesman for the department, said in an e-mail that the department was ''responding to requests for loan forgiveness and will continue to work with borrowers on this matter.''
It is not clear how many loans are outstanding, but the state's guarantee agency has approved a total of 35,726 loans for 10 Wilfred, Robert Fiance and Jon Louis locations in New York City since Jan. 1, 1986, according to state data. A majority of loans are no longer active, but an analysis of data from other agencies servicing loans from these schools suggests that several hundred are still on the books. Herman De Jesus, a senior program associate for the New Economy Project, an advocacy organization, said that though the three beauty schools had long been closed, other trade schools continued to prey on students.
''Schools are targeting low-income people and people of color for the sole purpose of drawing down large sums of federal aid dollars,'' Mr. De Jesus said. The schools ''have no intention of providing them with a quality education.''
But unlike mortgages and credit card debt, federal student loans are difficult to relieve, and there is no statute of limitations on their collection.
''It follows you for the rest of your life,'' he said.
On a recent afternoon, Danubia Tejada, 47, sat at the kitchen table in her Bronx apartment and picked up a photo taken at the Wilfred Academy in 1987.
Ms. Tejada shook her head when she glanced at her younger self with a thicket of curly bangs under a blue square cap and satin gown, her inch-long, fire-engine-red fingernails gingerly cradling a bouquet of red roses. The school charged $300 for the portraits, she recalled.
She put a hand over her heart when she described her job, working nights at a group home for developmentally disabled residents, which she said pays about $34,000 a year.
But every month, she withdraws $140 to pay down a loan that has ruined her credit. A few years ago, when she fell behind on payments, her account was labeled ''delinquent,'' which she said made her feel like a criminal.
''But I'm not,'' she said. ''I'm trying to pay.''
This month, Ms. Tejada got a phone call from the New York Legal Assistance Group informing her that her application for a false-certification discharge was approved.
But it may be weeks or months before she has a check in hand from the government, reimbursing her for the thousands of dollars she has paid for the loan and fees.
Ms. Tejada already has plans to help her oldest daughter pay for a college degree in social work.
''I can do a lot of things with that money,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amarilis Madera, top left, and her sister, Xiomara, graduated in the 1990s from a Bronx beauty school, one of several that were accused of misleading their students. Danubia Tejada, above, said a school ruined her credit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK
ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); INDICTMENTS (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



847 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Study Questions Guest Visa Issue

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY and SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Although certain kinds of engineers are in short supply in the United States, plenty of potential candidates exist for thousands of positions for which companies want to import guest workers, according to an analysis of three million résumés of job seekers in the United States.
The numbers, prepared by a company called Bright, which collects résumés and uses big data tools to connect job seekers with openings, enter a contentious debate over whether tech companies should be allowed to expand their rolls of guest workers. In lobbying Congress for more of these temporary visas, called H-1B visas, the technology industry argues there are not enough qualified Americans. Its critics, including labor groups, say bringing in guest workers is a way to depress wages in the industry. 
Many economists take issue with the industry's argument, too. One side points out that wages have not gone up across the board for engineers, suggesting that there is no stark labor shortage. Another counters that unemployment rates in the sector are minuscule and that in any event, H-1B workers represent a tiny fraction of the American work force.
''I didn't expect this result,'' said Steve Goodman, Bright's chief executive.
Bright is based in San Francisco, and it makes money in part by placing qualified candidates with recruiters and, according to Mr. Goodman, employs workers using H-1B visas. ''We're Silicon Valley people, we just assumed the shortage was true,'' Mr. Goodman said. ''It turns out there is a little Silicon Valley groupthink going on about this, though it's not comfortable to say that.''
For a few job categories, like computer systems analysts, there are relatively few ''good fits'' among American applicants, Bright found. Computer systems analyst jobs, considered relatively low-skilled in the tech world, had four openings for every American candidate. For others, like high-skilled computer programmers, there were more than enough potential candidates in the United States, the company found.
Bright's study is unlikely to end the debate, partly because it rests on the company's proprietary algorithm to determine who is a ''good fit'' for a particular job opening. Its algorithm uses a range of criteria, including work experience and education, but also work descriptions that indicated a high likelihood of other skills. Its analysis also doesn't specify how many job openings there are at a particular point in time, or whether they are sufficient to accommodate both American engineers and foreign guest workers.
Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard, said that while the tech industry's claims of a labor shortage may be overblown, the argument over expanding temporary work visas should not be made on the basis of whether there are shortages at one point in time. He said the data from Bright were useful in showing that there was most likely not ''a huge mismatch'' in the demand and supply of computer professionals, except perhaps in certain job categories like computer systems analysts.
''But they don't help us determine whether the U.S. economy would benefit from an expansion of the H1-B visa program or what the impact would be on U.S. workers in these occupations,'' he said. ''The case for and against expanding the H1-B visa program should be done on an overall assessment of the impact on the U.S. economy (workers, consumers, investors, students/future workers) and not only on whether there are short-run 'shortages' in any specific occupation.''
For the study, Bright looked at the job categories for which firms applied for H-1B visas, and then, looked at résumés of job seekers in the United States whose résumés matched those same categories.
Giovanni Peri, an economist at University of California, Davis, said that the Bright study was insufficient to determine whether there was a need for foreign engineers. ''It is the difference between job vacancies (demand) and unemployed with right qualifications (supply) that provides a measure of the excess (or not) of demand,'' he said. ''Knowing only the number of unemployed with right qualifications does not do it.''
''There are many more job openings'' where companies do not file for H-1Bs, but search for candidates on the domestic job market, he added.
The Senate immigration bill, passed last month, nearly doubles the number of H-1B visas that companies can seek every year. Industry lobbied heavily for it, bulldozing efforts to add language that would force companies to try to hire an equally qualified American first. The House is mired in arguments over what kind of immigration legislation it can pass. Technology industry groups are lobbying members of the House for a substantial increase in H-1Bs, among other things.
Outsourcing companies, mostly from India, have lately sought the largest chunks of H-1B visas. Companies like Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro bring thousands of temporary workers, mostly from India, and place them for short-term projects in a variety of American industries, from banks to technology firms like Microsoft and Oracle. H-1B visas are also used by graduates of American universities who are hired by companies in the United States.
Bright's analysis suggests a hierarchy in the industry that mirrors what has long been said about jobs like low-skilled agricultural or restaurant work: Americans could do these jobs, but are unlikely to accept the pay or conditions. As a result, the jobs are taken by immigrants.
The age of workers, which the study did not look at, may also play a role. Experienced American workers tend to be older in an industry that prizes youth. A study conducted by a Seattle-based company called Payscale found that among 32 technology companies surveyed, only six had a work force with a median age over 35. At Monster, the job search portal, the median age was 30; at Google, 29; and at Facebook, 28. The median age of American workers over all is 42.3 years old, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
As if to underline the study's findings, Mr. Goodman spoke from a conference room that looked out on decorated ping-pong tables, a liquor bar and tiki-themed snacks. Later that day, Bright was having a party, partly to attract new talent, he said, including foreign programmers here on H-1B visas.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence F. Katz, an economist at Harvard, said the argument over temporary work visas should include a broader focus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (93%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



848 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: A Bruising Fight for Survival

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- The death of the personal computer may be an exaggeration. But the industry around personal computers seems to be in limbo.
Like the mainframe, which was said to be dead decades ago but has remained a meaningful business, the PC will almost certainly cheat death. True, mobile devices like the iPad will continue to gore PC sales. Those mobile devices, though, will most likely never satisfy spreadsheet masters, film editors and other workers who depend on multiple screens and the precision of a keyboard and mouse.
Still, there is a strong view among many longtime tech executives that the PC's relevance will steadily diminish.
''In my humble opinion, the PC as we have known it is in a continuous decline and being relegated to a utility device for businesses,'' said Hector Ruiz, the former chief executive of Advanced Micro Devices, a company that makes chips for PCs and other devices. 
The mood around the PC industry has become increasingly glum. The business is effectively in a recession, and there is no upturn in sight. During the second quarter of the year, global PC shipments fell around 11 percent, for their fifth consecutive quarter of declines, the worst downturn since the advent of the PC more than 30 years ago.
Intel, supplier of the chips in most PCs, and Microsoft, which makes the Windows operating system on the vast majority of those machines, have delivered disappointing financial results. An overhaul of Microsoft's software, Windows 8, did not lift sales and may have made them worse.
The once-mighty Dell, deeply weakened by the PC slump, is mired in a struggle with shareholders over a plan to go private, seeking relief from investor pressure. In their bid to take the company private, Michael S. Dell, the founder, and the investment firm Silver Lake have argued that they would turn the company into a corporate software services provider. A vote on Dell's future is expected this week.
While sales of PCs to businesses remain steady, demand among consumers has plunged, largely because people are instead buying iPads, Kindle Fires and other tablets.
Still, a reality check: more than 300 million PCs are expected to be shipped this year globally. That is a lot of widgets for a business that has caught a cold.
Tablet sales are growing explosively. This year, there are expected to be more than 200 million shipments of the devices, which will for the first time exceed shipments of notebooks, the largest category of PCs, estimates Gartner, the research firm.
Steven P. Jobs, the Apple chief executive who died in 2011, predicted several years ago that PCs would become something like trucks, workhorses used by many people but outnumbered by tablets, the cars of the technology business. (The analogy is somewhat undercut by stats: the most popular vehicle in the United States for several years has been a truck, the Ford F-150.)
One theory is that tablets are leading PC shoppers to postpone purchases of new computers, perhaps by a year or two, but that eventually people will be ready for a fresh machine. ''Replacement cycles are being pushed out,'' said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research.
A more pessimistic view is that a lot of the consumer demand for PCs will never return. Daniel Huttenlocher, the dean and vice provost of Cornell University's new New York City technology campus, said consumers began buying PCs in big numbers beginning in the 1990s largely because no better device existed for getting on the Internet.
But the PC, he said, was always better suited as an office machine for the production of documents, presentations and other work. In his view, tablets are better for the consumption of content, whether that is watching Netflix or surfing the Web.
''There are way more consumers than producers, period, even in a world with lots of user-generated content,'' Dr. Huttenlocher said.
In the first quarter, 53 percent of computer shipments were to the consumer market while 47 percent were to the commercial market, estimates the research firm IDC.
Many consumers will still favor PCs for tasks like editing home movies and writing term papers. But tablets are already invading the turf of PCs in many professional niches, from flight manuals for airline pilots to cash registers in restaurants.
The incumbents in the PC industry -- especially Microsoft and Intel, the software-chip duopoly with the most to lose from the decline of the business -- have a seemingly straightforward response: redefine the PC to make it more tabletlike. Microsoft designed Windows 8 to work well on touch-screen devices. If users tire of finger gestures, they can switch to a classic Windows desktop interface that they can operate with a mouse and keyboard.
Intel, meanwhile, has refined its chips so that they are more thrifty with their consumption of battery power, an important requirement for mobile devices.
The changes have given rise to a frenzy of crossbreeding in devices, effectively blurring the boundaries between PCs and tablets. Now notebooks can turn into tablets either by flipping their screens or through fully detachable displays. Many otherwise ordinary notebooks come with touch displays for quickly jumping between different modes of operation.
Microsoft and Intel are betting that devices coming out in the fall will finally get PC shoppers back in stores. Microsoft plans to release a new version of its operating system, Windows 8.1, that responds to complaints its customers had with the earlier version.
''What you're going to see over the next few months is a lot more designs from every PC manufacturer,'' said Adam King, a director of product marketing at Intel.
Using the automotive analogy of Mr. Jobs to different effect, Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft, said the car business kept subdividing into many categories, including luxury models and electric vehicles. ''You can say the same thing is happening in computing,'' Mr. Shaw said.
Anand Chandrasekher, the chief marketing officer of Qualcomm, which supplies chips for some mobile Windows devices, says he expects Microsoft will successfully adapt to the changes in its business. ''I admire Microsoft for the changes they've made,'' Mr. Chandrasekher said. ''We're bullish that they will have a strong presence in the marketplace.''
Some people are deeply skeptical that creating a new hybrid class of devices will help stop the momentum of tablets from Apple and companies with devices based on Google's Android operating system. Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce.com and a frequent Microsoft antagonist, said customers had already shunned new types of devices, like Microsoft's Surface.
''The reason why they're not accelerating growth is for one simple reason,'' Mr. Benioff said. ''There's a better technology.''
Whatever happens to the PC business, the iron grip that companies like Microsoft and Intel once wielded over hardware makers appears to be no more. Hewlett-Packard now makes a notebook using Google's Chrome OS software and a tablet based on Android, Google's mobile operating system. Lenovo, the world's top seller of PCs, is big seller of Android smartphones and tablets, especially in China.
In an earlier era of computing, those would have been considered intolerable acts of disloyalty.
''We're a device company,'' said Gerry Smith, a Lenovo senior vice president and head of its Americas division. ''We're agnostic on hardware and agnostic on software, whether Android or Windows.''
Meanwhile, Microsoft has struggled to maintain its influence with software developers, which have gravitated in ever greater numbers to Apple and Google's mobile technologies.
Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, an online storage company that has developed software for Windows 8, said that influence was once Microsoft's most powerful asset.
''It wasn't the absolute value of the technology,'' Mr. Levie said. ''It's that you have mindshare and ecosystem support. Microsoft is now in a very different world these days.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, introduced a Windows 8 upgrade in June at a San Francisco conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (95%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (86%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); SHIPMENTS (71%); GOING PRIVATE (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); INTEL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (78%); HECTOR DE J RUIZ (77%); MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



849 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: National Figures Call for Weiner to Leave Mayor's Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
New York City's political elite have spent days attacking Anthony D. Weiner's increasingly embattled mayoral campaign. On Sunday, it was Washington's turn.
Hours after his campaign manager quit in the wake of new revelations about his online conduct, Mr. Weiner found himself assailed by a parade of prominent political figures who called on the candidate to exit the race.
''At this point, it's absurd,'' David Axelrod, a former senior adviser to President Obama, said during an appearance on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, which devoted a segment to Mr. Weiner's scandal between reports on the American economy and tumult in Egypt. 
''He is not going to be the next mayor of New York; he is wasting time and space,'' added Mr. Axelrod, who had no qualms about his animus toward Mr. Weiner. ''It's time for him to go away and let New York have its mayor's race.''
Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary in the Clinton administration, said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS that she believed the chaos and tabloid titillation surrounding Mr. Weiner had been ''very painful'' for Bill and Hillary Clinton, who are close with Mr. Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin, to witness.
''Look, this isn't a story that anybody, particularly the Clintons, are happy to see splashed over the front pages,'' Ms. Myers said. ''If they could choose, they would certainly have Weiner get out of the race and Huma to get on with their life.''
Ms. Myers said later that she had not spoken to the Clintons about Mr. Weiner's travails.
For his part, Mr. Weiner, who appeared at a church in Brownsville, Brooklyn, on Sunday morning, tried to sound a defiant note.
''We've gotten more volunteers and more people coming over the transom to help the campaign in the last several days than any time since the campaign started,'' he told reporters.
But he also declined to elaborate on why his campaign manager, Danny Kedem, had resigned, saying only, ''He did a remarkable job.''
The troubles facing Mr. Weiner have provided an opening to one of his chief Democratic opponents, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, who sharply criticized Mr. Weiner's Congressional record on ''Meet the Press.''
Ms. Quinn appeared uneasy when asked by the show's host, David Gregory, if Mr. Weiner's online conduct had disqualified him as a candidate. Mr. Gregory asked the question three times; Ms. Quinn eventually replied: ''He disqualified himself, but not just because of these scandals,'' going on to cite what she saw as his lack of accomplishments in Congress.
A far harsher response came from the veteran CBS News anchor Bob Schieffer, who commented on ''Face the Nation'' that Mr. Weiner's continuing attempt to become mayor of New York ''is not funny -- it is sickening.'' He added that the candidate had ''no business'' seeking to run City Hall.
Aides to Mr. Weiner have said there are few indications that he is considering leaving the race. In an interview published on Sunday in The Staten Island Advance, Mr. Weiner made his intentions clear: ''You're stuck with me,'' he said.
Mr. Weiner went as far as to joke about raising his young son, Jordan, in Gracie Mansion. But he conceded that the past week had taken a toll.
''I've been derailed the last few days,'' Mr. Weiner said. ''No doubt about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ANTHONY WEINER SCANDAL (78%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



850 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DESIGN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: A Dynamo Is Born of the Korean War's Ashes

BYLINE: By ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- When the term ''industrial design'' was introduced to South Korea in the early 1960s, the country was desperately poor and scarred by decades of occupation by the Japanese and a brutal civil war against North Korea. The first design schools had barely opened, and Samsung was still a food manufacturer that had only recently ventured into electronics.
Half a century later, South Korea is one of the world's most dynamic design centers. It dominates the global markets for future-facing products like smart phones and liquid-crystal screens. Samsung is mooted as the likeliest contender to dislodge Apple as the alpha design brand of our time, and each year about 25,000 graduates leave South Korean universities having majored in design, more than any other country except China. 
The role of design in transforming South Korea is the theme of ''Korea Power: Design and Identity'' running through Aug. 25 at the Museum Angewandte Kunst here. Starting in the 1950s, at the end of the Korean War, the exhibition finishes by exploring how, after decades of globalization, South Korea is now developing a distinctive design culture, rooted in its rich artisanal history.
I must admit that I often groan when museums devote exhibitions to this, that or the other nation's efforts to define a design identity for the simple reason that they tend to be drearily jingoistic. South Korea is not the first struggling economy to have deployed design as a strategic tool: Italy and Denmark did so with resounding success after World War II, followed by Japan and, more recently, by China.
But the story of South Korea's design renaissance is told so compellingly by the Frankfurt exhibition and the accompanying catalog that, far from being dull, ''Korea Power'' acts as a timely study for all of the other ambitious Asian, African and East European countries striving to design their way toward economic growth.
The exhibition opens with an exquisite 17th-century lacquered porcelain jar that symbolizes one of South Korea's design assets: the tradition of fine craftsmanship that flourished throughout the Joseon period of its history from 1392 until 1910. Like so much of Korean culture, its craft heritage was abandoned during the Japanese occupation and the civil war. South Korea emerged from the conflict in an even weaker condition than the North, which was more heavily industrialized. As the designer Kim Young Se, the first Korean to study industrial design in the United States, wrote in the catalog, ''desperation'' was a powerful incentive for the country to change.
Political initiatives helped too. Having identified a number of industries, including electronics, where it could develop powerful positions, South Korea invested heavily in the resources required to do so, including design schools. Like many other developing economies, it began by importing components from other countries, and copying them on a sub-contracted basis for foreign companies.
South Korea's manufacturers then nurtured the necessary design and technological expertise to develop their own branded products, often focusing on fledgling markets, which their competitors had either overlooked or decided to ignore to protect their vested interests.
The exhibition traces the impact of design on South Korean consumer culture through a haunting series of photographs taken Kim Han-Yong in the 1950s of daily life throughout the country, followed by a succession of advertising campaigns starting in the 1960s. A collection of photographs taken by the German architectural photographer Dieter Leistner of similar types of buildings in both North and South Korea illustrates the growing economic and cultural gulf between the countries.
Yet the most intriguing aspect of ''Korea Power'' is the emergence of a singular design culture in South Korea, as its increasingly confident and sophisticated designers have drawn on their cultural history, just as postwar Italian designers were inspired by the vivid colors and flamboyant shapes of their rustic traditions and the voluminous folds of late 20th-century Japanese fashion evoked those of ancient kimonos and Asian peasant clothes.
One of the earliest design emblems of the newly assertive South Korea was Hodori, the mascot of the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games, which was a tiger, a familiar animal in Korean folklore, sporting a sangmo hat traditionally worn by peasant musicians. More recently, architects have revived the ancient Hanok style of Korean courtyard houses, which are fashionably energy-efficient, being designed to be cool in summer and warm in winter, but were demolished in large numbers from the 1960s onward to make way for high rises.
''Korea Power'' also shows how furniture designers, like Ha Ji Hoon and Song Seung-Yong, are reinventing historic forms, including portable tables that are low enough to be used by people sitting on the floor in the traditional way. Some of the most beautiful and ingenious objects in the exhibition are the delicate bowls and boxes made from paper, wood and ceramics by Choi Jungyou, Kim Yikyung and other designers, who reinterpreted ancient techniques and materials to produce them.
All of these works share the defining qualities of Korean craftsmanship -- simplicity, restraint, precision, flexibility and sensitivity to context -- that seem propitious at a time when designers are striving to imbue their work with nuance and meaning, to strike an emotional chord with consumers who are bored by globalization.
Such attributes are even evident on an industrial scale. One of Samsung's strengths has been its ability to produce injection-molded plastic of such high quality that the surfaces of its tiny digital devices like smart phones feel luxurious. Realizing that the smaller such products become, the more intimate our relationship with them will be, making their tactile qualities more important, Samsung planned its design strategy accordingly.
Yet another typically Korean quality has proved equally effective in design. It is identified in the catalog by Klaus Kemp, one of the exhibition's curators, as the ''optimistic approach to life, which is not simply a stereotype but is really embedded in the mind.'' Having fueled South Korea's design ascent so far, the same optimism bodes well for its future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); FOOD MFG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); DENMARK (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



851 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: E.U. Market Needs to Be Opened Up More

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

 BODY:
The European Union is ripe for a big, new single-market push. Deepening the single market would do a lot for the Union's sagging competitiveness. Vested interests may be opposed. But a drive to open up markets would help the euro zone periphery and could keep Britain in the Union, killing two birds with one stone.
It may seem odd to be calling for more work on the single market. Did the Treaty of Rome not promise the freedom of movement of goods and services throughout what is now the European Union all the way back in 1957? Did the Union not complete the single market in 1992? And was not a directive pledging free trade in services passed in 2006? 
Well, yes and no. Free trade is not just about lifting intra-E.U. tariffs which were, indeed, abolished decades ago. It is also about dealing with a mass of national red tape, which protects local industries from competition. Such rules are especially prevalent in services industries.
That is why the job of freeing up the Union's internal market is still far from complete. Even the services directive covered only sectors that account for a bit more than 40 percent of gross domestic product. Areas like energy, transport and telecommunications were left out. The legislation was also diluted so that even companies operating in the areas supposedly covered often have to go through lots of hoops to provide services in other countries. What is more, the rules are often not enforced.
Services account for 70 percent of E.U. G.D.P., but only 22 percent to 23 percent of intra-E.U. trade. The Union is also notoriously inefficient in provisions for services. This is a big reason the region is poorer than the United States.
Liberalizing services would encourage competition. That would push prices down, benefiting ordinary consumers, enhancing the competitiveness of businesses and saving money for hard-pressed governments. Innovation, investment and jobs would rise. An ambitious liberalization would increase G.D.P. as much as 2.3 percent, equivalent to &#x20ac;294 billion, or about $390 billion, according to the research organization Open Europe.
There should be two priorities for a new single market push. First, services companies should be given a ''passport'' to operate anywhere in the Union provided they are properly authorized at home. This idea, advocated by Open Europe, would get rid of thousands of barriers in one fell swoop.
Meanwhile, a passport would mean there would be less need to rely on the European Commission to make sure national governments were properly enforcing detailed rules.
The provision of cross-border online services, vital for the future but currently tangled in a mass of regulation, would also get a fillip.
The second priority should be to extend the services directive to areas it does not cover -- mainly energy, transport and telecommunications. These networks are the economy's arteries and nervous systems. But it is absurd, for example, that a company carrying goods by road from Spain to Belgium is not allowed to pick up freight in France on the way.
Vested interests, especially in traditionally illiberal France and conservative Germany, will not like liberalization. Some French will argue that national rules are needed to protect consumers from poor-quality services from abroad, even though their companies happily provide electricity, public transport and waste management in liberal Britain. Some Germans will say their apprentice system ensures that youngsters are trained to become masters of crafts like plumbing and work with electricity, keeping quality high.
The counterargument is that consumers benefit hugely from choice. Not everybody wants, or can afford, the plumbing equivalent of a BMW. If Germans really provide better-quality services, they should be able to sell them as an upmarket product in other countries. But why should local consumers not be able to use low-cost Polish plumbers, for instance, if they prefer?
Competition between different ways of providing the same service would invigorate the E.U. economy. Of course, consumers would need to be protected. But that could best be achieved by being transparent about where the service provider is based and swift remedies for shoddy service.
If these economic arguments do not bite, a couple of political points could sway the day.
First, peripheral euro countries are being forced to open their markets as a condition of their rescue packages. Germany has been the high priest, preaching the virtue of enhanced competitiveness. How fair then is it to keep its own markets closed? Liberalization would encourage Germans to spend more money on services -- something which would help drag the periphery out of recession, not to mention helping East Europeans catch up with their Western cousins.
The second political argument concerns Britain. It has one foot out the door of the Union. But it has long been a champion of the single market and excels at services. An ambitious program to deepen the single market could, therefore, be used as a powerful argument for staying in during a future referendum. Given that Germany does not want Britain to quit, this would be a way of achieving its goal without giving Britain any special treatment.
The original 1992 program was pushed through by a British single-market commissioner, Lord Cockfield, backed by a British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher. David Cameron should attempt to repeat the trick. He should aim to get another vigorous Briton in as single market commissioner when a new commission is chosen next year. And he should secure agreement from fellow leaders to set a deadline -- say, the end of 2019 -- to complete the single market.
Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); EURO (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



852 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BRIEFLY: EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: University Application Rates in U.K. Vary by Ethnicity

BYLINE: By JOYCE LAU

 BODY:
UCAS, the organization that manages British university admissions, has found significant differences in the application rates of students belonging to different ethnic groups.
According to a report released last week, more than 50 percent of ethnic Chinese students at British state high schools applied to universities, compared with 40 percent of Asians in general and fewer than 30 percent of white students. Applications from black students rose to 34 percent in 2013, from 20 percent in 2006. That means that, proportionately, members of the main minority groups were more likely to apply to universities than those in the white majority. 
Applications from 18-year-olds from economically disadvantaged areas increased, though they were still less likely to apply than richer students. UCAS's chief executive, Mary Curnock Cook, said in a statement that ''the gap between rich and poor is closing as disadvantaged groups are applying at record levels.''
British Campuses Ranked by Surrounding Crime Levels
King's College London has been ranked as having the campus in the most crime-prone part of the British capital, while Aberystwyth University in Wales and Durham University in northeast England were rated as being in the safest areas in the country, according to a report last week by the Complete University Guide.
The independent guide used police data to measure the frequency of crimes most likely to affect students -- namely burglary, robbery and violent crime -- within a three-mile, or five-kilometer, radius of almost 120 campuses.
''While universities, especially those in high crime areas, do much to advise students on precautions, many students, particularly those from overseas attracted by formidable academic reputations, are often not aware of the risks in the areas around their chosen institutions,'' Bernard Kingston, the Complete University Guide's founder, said in a statement.
To put the ranking in perspective, the British government has said that crime rates have fallen steadily over the last decade. London's homicide rate of 1.2 murders per 100,000 people is lower than New York's, which is 3.8 per 100,000 people.
New Home for Major Archive of Women's Movement
The public can gain access to parts of the newly relocated Women's Library collection at the London School of Economics and Political Science starting Thursday, even though a planned reading room and exhibition area are not completed, the school has confirmed by e-mail.
The collection, which the L.S.E. calls ''the oldest and most extensive collection of women's history in Europe,'' includes tens of thousands of books and documents. It was originally housed at London Metropolitan University, which ran into trouble last year when the British government barred it from recruiting or admitting non-E.U. students. London Met said shortly after that time that it would no longer be able to house the archive, which was transferred to the L.S.E. after a bidding process.
The collection, which was founded in 1926, includes Mary Wollstonecraft's 1792 manifesto, ''A Vindication of the Rights of Woman,'' as well as works by the Brontë sisters and Virginia Woolf. More of the materials will be made available to the public in September. The L.S.E. is also making an effort to digitize the collection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNICITY (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (86%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); HISTORY (73%); MURDER (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); BURGLARY (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); ROBBERY (69%); LIBRARIES (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



853 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: The Most Pivotal Figure in the Senate Today

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
Washington being Washington, the hottest relationship in town does not revolve around sex or even the next presidential election; it is the political courtship of old antagonists, Barack Obama and John McCain.
Political relationships, especially those involving the president, are the sustenance of the American capital. Sometimes they are poisonous: President Lyndon B. Johnson and Robert F. Kennedy, as captured in the latest volume of Robert A. Caro's biography of L.B.J. At other times, they are lopsided, as when President Bill Clinton dominated Newt Gingrich under the guise of working together. And every now and then, there are adversarial yet symbiotic relationships that, on balance, get things done: President Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill in the 1980s, for example.
The association between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain is different. But it may be Washington's most important in many years. 
Mr. McCain, 76, whose political resiliency is rivaled only by such luminaries as Bill Clinton and Richard Nixon, is the most pivotal figure in the Senate today. He often is more central than the Senate party leaders, Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, and Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, or the self-styled new power broker, Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
When Mr. McCain is with the president -- on immigration and in brokering the recent deal to secure Senate approval of stalled Obama nominees -- they can usually trump the political right. When he is against him -- sabotaging Mr. Obama's plan last year to nominate Susan E. Rice as secretary of state -- the White House rarely prevails.
Their previous strains predated 2008, when they vied for the presidency. Mr. Obama saw his Republican rival as an embittered, compromised maverick who treated him as an undeserving upstart. After he lost that election, Mr. McCain saw Mr. Obama as naïve, aloof and surrounded by too many sycophants.
In 2011, there was a move to détente after Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona was shot. That, however, was ''a false start,'' Mr. McCain recalled in an interview last week.
This time, political convenience broke the ice. A re-elected president soon realized that without the support of a small core of Senate Republicans, any agenda was doomed. Mr. McCain, who moved right to fend off a Tea Party primary challenge in 2010, was itching to reclaim his maverick persona and wage a two-pronged battle: against the isolationists and the political right of his own party and against the national-security left wing in the Democratic camp.
Since the January inauguration, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain have met a dozen times. In half of those occasions, they were either alone or with only a few other principals. Although the discussions were usually about immigration policy, they invariably ranged more broadly.
There are huge tests ahead, especially the battles this autumn over the federal budget and raising the debt ceiling. Mr. McCain, the defense hawk, despises the across-the-board cuts to defense and discretionary domestic spending required under the set of cuts known as sequestration and wants to help forge a compromise replacement involving more taxes and cuts in entitlements.
The odds are against that happening; most House Republicans are more eager for an economy-threatening standoff than for an accord. The only slim hope is a deal, led by the White House and a small group of McCainites.
Mr. McCain also wants to help Mr. Obama fulfill his promise to close the detainee camp for terrorism suspects at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. He says political conditions are much different than they were four years ago when there was a similar effort.
''The difference between 2009 and 2013 is the administration now has a plan,'' he says.
Last month, the five-term senator traveled to Guantánamo with the Senate intelligence committee chairwoman, Dianne Feinstein, and the White House chief of staff, Denis McDonough.
Mr. McDonough, whom Mr. McCain knew as a midlevel aide to Tom Daschle when Mr. Daschle was the Democratic Senate leader, is a glue that binds the Republican and the administration. He and Mr. McCain talk as often as five times a day. In addition, the Republican senator has a great fondness for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and a good working relationship with Secretary of State John Kerry and is a fan of Samantha Power, the U.N. ambassador-designate.
He is also an unrelenting critic of most of Mr. Obama's foreign policy. He sees the president as indecisive or soft on Syria, Egypt and Afghanistan. He has a long-running feud with Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
He has no regrets about torching Ms. Rice's appointment as secretary of state and continues to suggest that she dissembled on the terrorist attack last year against a U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. When she was tapped to head Mr. Obama's National Security Council, Mr. McCain wrote a Twitter post saying that he would make ''every effort'' to work with her. She contacted him, they had a cordial meeting, and he asked her to discuss Syria with one of his confidants, the retired general Jack Keane. Ms. Rice met with General Keane: ''I can't ask for anything more,'' Mr. McCain says.
He is as eager to take on the isolationists led by Senator Rand Paul within his party. In an April speech at the Center for a New American Security, he focused criticism on his fellow Republicans. He has disdain for much of the movement right and little regard for Mr. McConnell.
In the interview in his Capitol hideaway office last week, the never combat-shy Mr. McCain seemed to revel in his reclaimed persona and his multifront battles. He suggests, however, that his style is changing.
''The biggest mistake I used to make was getting personal,'' he says, declaring that his role model now is Ted Kennedy, the late Democratic senator, who was a friend.
One prominent Democrat, who knows both Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain well, is certain the senator genuinely wishes to work with the president. Noting that for all the assistance of Mr. McDonough or even Mr. Biden, at this level, interactions ultimately depend on principal-to-principal connections, and the politician, who declined to be identified, worries that Mr. Obama does not do relationships well.
Asked about that, Mr. McCain paused, then acknowledged that the president is not a ''schmoozer'' like his predecessors Mr. Clinton or Mr. Reagan.
''He's willing to compromise but sometimes not sure he knows exactly how to do it,'' Mr. McCain says. ''We can help.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); APPROVALS (65%); IMMIGRATION (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HARRY REID (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



854 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Gangplank To a Warm Future

BYLINE: By ANTHONY R. INGRAFFEA. 
Anthony R. Ingraffea is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Cornell University and the president of Physicians, Scientists and Engineers for Healthy Energy, a nonprofit group.

 BODY:
ITHACA, N.Y. -- MANY concerned about climate change, including President Obama, have embraced hydraulic fracturing for natural gas. In his recent climate speech, the president went so far as to lump gas with renewables as ''clean energy.''
As a longtime oil and gas engineer who helped develop shale fracking techniques for the Energy Department, I can assure you that this gas is not ''clean.'' Because of leaks of methane, the main component of natural gas, the gas extracted from shale deposits is not a ''bridge'' to a renewable energy future -- it's a gangplank to more warming and away from clean energy investments. 
Methane is a far more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, though it doesn't last nearly as long in the atmosphere. Still, over a 20-year period, one pound of it traps as much heat as at least 72 pounds of carbon dioxide. Its potency declines, but even after a century, it is at least 25 times as powerful as carbon dioxide. When burned, natural gas emits half the carbon dioxide of coal, but methane leakage eviscerates this advantage because of its heat-trapping power.
And methane is leaking, though there is significant uncertainty over the rate. But recent measurements by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration at gas and oil fields in California, Colorado and Utah found leakage rates of 2.3 percent to 17 percent of annual production, in the range my colleagues at Cornell and I predicted some years ago. This is the gas that is released into the atmosphere unburned as part of the hydraulic fracturing process, and also from pipelines, compressors and processing units. Those findings raise questions about what is happening elsewhere. The Environmental Protection Agency has issued new rules to reduce these emissions, but the rules don't take effect until 2015, and apply only to new wells.
A 2011 study from the National Center for Atmospheric Research concluded that unless leaks can be kept below 2 percent, gas lacks any climate advantage over coal. And a study released this May by Climate Central, a group of scientists and journalists studying climate change, concluded that the 50 percent climate advantage of natural gas over coal is unlikely to be achieved over the next three to four decades. Unfortunately, we don't have that long to address climate change -- the next two decades are crucial.
To its credit, the president's plan recognizes that ''curbing emissions of methane is critical.'' However, the release of unburned gas in the production process is not the only problem. Gas and oil wells that lose their structural integrity also leak methane and other contaminants outside their casings and into the atmosphere and water wells. Multiple industry studies show that about 5 percent of all oil and gas wells leak immediately because of integrity issues, with increasing rates of leakage over time. With hundreds of thousands of new wells expected, this problem is neither negligible nor preventable with current technology.
Why do so many wells leak this way? Pressures under the earth, temperature changes, ground movement from the drilling of nearby wells and shrinkage crack and damage the thin layer of brittle cement that is supposed to seal the wells. And getting the cement perfect as the drilling goes horizontally into shale is extremely challenging. Once the cement is damaged, repairing it thousands of feet underground is expensive and often unsuccessful. The gas and oil industries have been trying to solve this problem for decades.
The scientific community has been waiting for better data from the E.P.A. to assess the extent of the water contamination problem. That is why it is so discouraging that, in the face of industry complaints, the E.P.A. reportedly has closed or backed away from several investigations into the problem. Perhaps a full E.P.A. study of hydraulic fracturing and drinking water, due in 2014, will be more forthcoming. In addition, drafts of an Energy Department study suggest that there are huge problems finding enough water for fracturing future wells. The president should not include this technology in his energy policy until these studies are complete.
We have renewable wind, water, solar and energy-efficiency technology options now. We can scale these quickly and affordably, creating economic growth, jobs and a truly clean energy future to address climate change. Political will is the missing ingredient. Meaningful carbon reduction is impossible so long as the fossil fuel industry is allowed so much influence over our energy policies and regulatory agencies. Policy makers need to listen to the voices of independent scientists while there is still time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS (92%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); METHANE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GAS LEAKS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



855 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Pledges Millions in Aid for North

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea announced $7.3 million worth of humanitarian aid for North Korea on Sunday, a conciliatory gesture that coincided with a call by the South for ''one last round'' of talks on restarting a jointly operated industrial complex. 
The majority of the aid -- $6 million -- will be provided by the South Korean government and shipped through Unicef, the United Nations children's agency, which provides vaccines, medicine and nutritional supplements for malnourished children and pregnant women in the impoverished North. Five private humanitarian aid groups from South Korea will provide the remainder; they will also send medicine and food for young children.
The South Korean minister in charge of policy toward the North, Ryoo Kihl-jae, said the aid shipments were not linked to political issues. But the announcement was contained in a statement in which Mr. Ryoo also called for a final round of talks with the North to settle disputes over the Kaesong industrial complex, which has been closed since early April.
There was no immediate response from the North Korean government.
The economy in the North remains in dire shape despite international aid and gradual improvements in the North's grain production in recent years. More than one-quarter of North Korean children under age 5 suffer from chronic malnourishment, according to surveys by the United Nations and international aid groups. South Korean government statistics showed that the North's infant mortality rates in recent years were several times higher than those in the South.
South Korean governmental and private aid for North Korea plunged by more than 95 percent over the last five years. Conservative South Korean governments curtailed aid shipments and trade with North Korea, citing its nuclear weapons development and military provocations, like the sinking of a South Korean warship in 2010, for which the South Korean government blamed the North.
The North pulled its 53,000 workers out of the Kaesong industrial complex in April, citing military tensions that it said were caused by joint South Korean-American military exercises.
North Korea has insisted that the shutdown was the South's fault. It has also accused the South of making unreasonable demands as a pretext to terminating the Kaesong project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); NUTRITION (70%); STATISTICS (65%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



856 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Stranded By Sprawl

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Detroit is a symbol of the old economy's decline. It's not just the derelict center; the metropolitan area as a whole lost population between 2000 and 2010, the worst performance among major cities. Atlanta, by contrast, epitomizes the rise of the Sun Belt; it gained more than a million people over the same period, roughly matching the performance of Dallas and Houston without the extra boost from oil.
Yet in one important respect booming Atlanta looks just like Detroit gone bust: both are places where the American dream seems to be dying, where the children of the poor have great difficulty climbing the economic ladder. In fact, upward social mobility -- the extent to which children manage to achieve a higher socioeconomic status than their parents -- is even lower in Atlanta than it is in Detroit. And it's far lower in both cities than it is in, say, Boston or San Francisco, even though these cities have much slower growth than Atlanta. 
So what's the matter with Atlanta? A new study suggests that the city may just be too spread out, so that job opportunities are literally out of reach for people stranded in the wrong neighborhoods. Sprawl may be killing Horatio Alger.
The new study comes from the Equality of Opportunity Project, which is led by economists at Harvard and Berkeley. There have been many comparisons of social mobility across countries; all such studies find that these days America, which still thinks of itself as the land of opportunity, actually has more of an inherited class system than other advanced nations. The new project asks how social mobility varies across U.S. cities, and finds that it varies a lot. In San Francisco a child born into the bottom fifth of the income distribution has an 11 percent chance of making it into the top fifth, but in Atlanta the corresponding number is only 4 percent.
When the researchers looked for factors that correlate with low or high social mobility, they found, perhaps surprisingly, little direct role for race, one obvious candidate. They did find a significant correlation with the existing level of inequality: ''areas with a smaller middle class had lower rates of upward mobility.'' This matches what we find in international comparisons, where relatively equal societies like Sweden have much higher mobility than highly unequal America. But they also found a significant negative correlation between residential segregation -- different social classes living far apart -- and the ability of the poor to rise.
And in Atlanta poor and rich neighborhoods are far apart because, basically, everything is far apart; Atlanta is the Sultan of Sprawl, even more spread out than other major Sun Belt cities. This would make an effective public transportation system nearly impossible to operate even if politicians were willing to pay for it, which they aren't. As a result, disadvantaged workers often find themselves stranded; there may be jobs available somewhere, but they literally can't get there.
The apparent inverse relationship between sprawl and social mobility obviously reinforces the case for ''smart growth'' urban strategies, which try to promote compact centers with access to public transit. But it also bears on a larger debate about what is happening to American society. I know I'm not the only person who read the Times article on the new study and immediately thought, ''William Julius Wilson.''
A quarter-century ago Mr. Wilson, a distinguished sociologist, famously argued that the postwar movement of employment out of city centers to the suburbs dealt African-American families, concentrated in those city centers, a heavy blow, removing economic opportunity just as the civil rights movement was finally ending explicit discrimination. And he further argued that social phenomena such as the prevalence of single mothers, often cited as causes of lagging black performance, were actually effects -- that is, the family was being undermined by the absence of good jobs.
These days, you hear less than you used to about alleged African-American social dysfunction, because traditional families have become much weaker among working-class whites, too. Why? Well, rising inequality and the general hollowing out of the job market are probably the main culprits. But the new research on social mobility suggests that sprawl -- not just the movement of jobs out of the city, but their movement out of reach of many less-affluent residents of the suburbs, too -- is also playing a role.
As I said, this observation clearly reinforces the case for policies that help families function without multiple cars. But you should also see it in the larger context of a nation that has lost its way, that preaches equality of opportunity while offering less and less opportunity to those who need it most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); CITIES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



857 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A Straphangers' Campaign

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Say this for Rudolph Giuliani: In 1997 he made it free to ride the Staten Island Ferry, a small daily improvement in commuters' lives that, multiplied by millions of rides and many years, surely adds up to something monumental.
His decision was influenced as much by politics as by need, but it's an example of what can happen when a New York mayor highlights and fixes a neglected transportation problem (riders in one borough unfairly burdened by train, bus and ferry fares). Few things more directly affect the quality of a day, the stability and prosperity of a life, than the ability to get to work. And few are more vital to the larger economy -- of the city and region -- than the transportation system that makes it possible. Veins and arteries: every body needs them. 
The candidates for mayor understand this. Campaigning in the shadow of the often-innovative mayoralty of Michael Bloomberg, they all have transportation ideas, many of them good.
Christine Quinn spent much of last week firing off proposals. She rode to work with a Staten Islander for a good hour and a half by bus and subway to highlight her 10-year plan to make every New Yorker's commute an hour or less. She talked about adding ferries on the East River and between Staten Island and mid-Manhattan, and expanding Select Bus Service -- express buses in dedicated lanes, like rubber-wheeled trains -- in the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn, so riders could move more easily within those boroughs while avoiding Manhattan. She offered this as a cheaper, faster-to-build alternative to the X Line, a hypothetical triborough train that could be built on existing rights-of-way and connect with at least 20 subway lines. That idea was floated in the 1990s by the Regional Plan Association, and recently revived by Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president.
Bill de Blasio and William Thompson Jr. have also proposed expanding bus service in the boroughs outside Manhattan, and Mr. de Blasio wants to expand the bike-share program, too. Joseph Lhota, the former head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, wants to put park-and-ride stations at the ends of subway lines, to turn more drivers into straphangers. He has mused about digging a tunnel to Staten Island to bring the R subway over from Brooklyn. Ms. Quinn and Adolfo Carrión Jr. want new rail stations where Metro-North runs through the East Bronx, which is poorly served by mass transit and ripe for development. Mr. Carrión also wants to make parking easier for motorized two-wheelers -- make room for more Vespas.
We could fill this page with plans like these to improve the reach and quality of the transportation system. The much harder question is how to make such plans real, and keep the existing system in good repair, with little new money to work with and mayoral power circumscribed by the M.T.A., the state-run mega-agency that controls mass transit in the city and suburbs.
Some candidates want to give the mayor control of the M.T.A. board and power to appoint the head of New York City Transit, the agency within the M.T.A. that runs the city's subways and buses. The justification is that nearly all of the money the system generates -- and nearly all of its ridership -- comes from the five boroughs. Neither plan is likely to get past opposition in Albany.
The candidates are also talking about restoring the commuter tax -- a modest levy on suburbanites who earn their living in the city, use its services and benefit from its transit lines -- to help pay for the system's upkeep. That is an excellent idea, but it is also a difficult sell in Albany. So is congestion pricing. That plan, a lost Bloomberg battle that is well worth reviving, would charge drivers for entering Manhattan during peak hours, to save gas and to help clear the air and Midtown streets.
The next mayor should gird for new fights along with the old ones -- like the long-thwarted goal of adding tolls on the East River bridges, which, in a region replete with costly and necessary highway tolls, persist in being perversely free. Drivers in Queens and Brooklyn may howl at the unfairness of it, but some great transit thinkers -- like Samuel Schwartz, engineer and former New York City cabby and deputy transportation commissioner -- argue that adding East River tolls and judiciously lowering them elsewhere would make the system much fairer citywide.
It will take effort and political skill to turn ideas into reality, from the tiny -- Ms. Quinn proposes countdown clocks outside subway stations, which would be quite nice -- to the transformational. But few jobs are more important for the next mayor.
Mr. Carrión, a former urban planner, is right when he says the mayor of New York should be a national leader on transportation. He promises, if elected, to build and lead a coalition of big-city mayors to demand more federal transit dollars, to challenge the imbalance of spending that favors cars and trucks over rail and buses. All of the mayoral candidates should embrace that challenge, to raise the profile of an urgent local and national issue, just as Mr. Bloomberg has done with gun violence and public health.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); MAYORS (90%); FERRIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); TRAINS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



858 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Not Too Big to Fail

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
New rules on bank capital, recently proposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other bank regulators, are a welcome step toward a safer and sounder financial system. And they come at a politically timely moment. Big banks invariably argue that new rules will impede their ability to thrive and, in the process, harm the economy. But their profits are soaring, even as the economy slows, a situation that makes their shopworn anti-regulatory argument all the more threadbare. 
It is not the banks that need protection from regulation; it is the public that needs protection from banks that are regarded as too big to fail. The new rules would require the nation's biggest banks to hold significantly more capital than is required under international agreements. The salutary aim is to bolster the banks' ability to absorb losses, thereby reducing the odds of failure and the need for taxpayer bailouts.
But higher capital buffers alone cannot eliminate bailout risk. Banks that are seen by investors as too big to fail -- as America's huge, complex and interconnected megabanks are -- will inevitably be able to borrow money at lower interest rates than banks that are not deemed too big to fail. This amounts, in effect, to a taxpayer-provided subsidy encouraging banks to become even bigger and more complex. The trick, then, is to reduce the subsidy. Higher capital requirements are a start, but tighter regulations reducing complexity and risks are also necessary, including an iron-clad Volcker Rule prohibiting excessive speculation.
As the subsidy is pared, market pressures could further reduce complexity and risk. Trimming the subsidy will trim profits, and as shareholders get a clearer picture of how banks perform without their too-big-to-fail backing, they presumably will demand that the banks begin to operate in a leaner, more competitive fashion -- including curbs on exorbitant executive pay.
It is easy to see why big banks and their executives would oppose higher capital requirements and other regulations that could curb their high-flying ways. Yet absent such rules, taxpayers and the broader economy will remain at risk for further bank failures and another financial catastrophe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



859 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Siemens to Oust Chief After String of Setbacks That Prompted Profit Warning

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The supervisory board of Siemens, one of Germany's largest companies, said that it would fire its chief executive at a meeting on Wednesday and replace him with an insider following a string of problems that led to a profit warning last week.
Peter Löscher, an Austrian who has been chief executive of the electronics and engineering giant since 2007, is taking the blame for a series of missteps that have plagued the company during the last year, including a late delivery of high-speed trains for the German national railroad and delays in completing offshore wind turbine projects. 
The German news media reported that Joe Kaeser, a member of Siemens's managing board and its chief financial officer, would be most likely to replace Mr. Löscher, but a company spokesman said on Sunday that he could not confirm the reports. In a statement Saturday, Siemens, based in Munich, said its supervisory board would name another member of the company's executive board as chief executive, but it did not say who.
Siemens's fortunes have consequences for the German economy as a whole because it is one of the country's largest employers, with about 120,000 workers, and because it is something of a bellwether for the country's industrial sector.
Along with automobiles, the German economy is based on the production of high-priced goods that are sold to governments and corporations. Siemens's broad array of products includes gear for power generation, trains and other transportation equipment, and medical devices like X-ray scanners. Problems at Siemens are potentially a bad omen for the country.
On Thursday, Siemens shares plunged 6 percent after the company said it would not meet its profit goals for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Siemens did not give a detailed explanation for the expected shortfall, attributing it to ''lower market expectations.'' But it appeared to reflect a combination of weaker-than-expected economic growth in crucial markets as well as management mistakes.
The profit warning fed concern that demand for German exports from China and other developing markets may no longer be strong enough to compensate for the weak European economy. Sales in the United States, where Siemens has 60,000 employees, also appear to be falling short of expectations despite the recovering growth in America.
Germany has weathered the euro zone crisis better than other countries because its machinery and engineering divisions have been able to tap developing markets, especially China. But recently the Chinese economy has been cooling, while Europe remains in recession.
Siemens had already reported a 7 percent decline in sales during the first three months of 2013, to 18 billion euros, or about $24 billion. On Thursday, the company is scheduled to announce earnings for the quarter that ended June 30.
Mr. Kaeser, reported as the likely replacement for Mr. Löscher, is a 56-year-old Siemens veteran credited with keeping the company on a steady course after the previous chief executive, Klaus Kleinfeld, resigned under pressure in 2007. Mr. Kleinfeld is now chief executive of the aluminum producer Alcoa.
Mr. Löscher, 55, was the latest in a line of Siemens chiefs who have tried to focus the sprawling company on its most profitable businesses and make it easier to manage. Under Mr. Löscher, Siemens spun off its Osram lighting unit, and this month it sold its half of a joint venture with Nokia that supplies equipment for mobile telecommunication networks.
Those moves raised money and simplified the company but were not enough to compensate for other problems, including delays in delivering high-speed ICE trains to Deutsche Bahn, the German railway.
Members of the supervisory board met informally on Saturday and will make the management changes formal at a regular meeting scheduled for Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Kaeser, left, Siemens's chief financial officer, is expected to replace Peter Löscher, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LENNART PREISS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EURO ZONE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRAINS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (70%); MARKET SIZE (68%); EURO CRISIS (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); EURO (60%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (95%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



860 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Weak Finish From Europe On Chinese Solar Panels

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The European Commission's investigation of solar-panel imports from China was the world's biggest antidumping case when it began last September, signaling a new willingness in Brussels to challenge China's extensive assistance to favored export-oriented industries.
But the case ended with a whimper on Saturday and illuminated the deep divisions within Europe -- and how good the Chinese are at exploiting those differences. The European Commission announced Saturday that it had settled the case in exchange for a pledge from China not to export solar panels for less than 0.56 euros (74 cents) a watt, a price about 25 percent lower even than when the case began. The commission also decided to forgo imposing the steep tariffs on Chinese solar panels it had originally threatened. 
The deal could end up strengthening the fractured Chinese solar panel industry and sending a wave of cheaper Chinese solar panels to the United States.
Trade experts said over the weekend that the European Commission's meager outcome, in a case covering 6 percent of China's exports to Europe, showed that while Brussels might have had a very strong case in terms of the law or economics, it was fatally weak from the beginning at the political level. Those political weaknesses increased as China's leaders traveled repeatedly to European capitals and lobbied aggressively and successfully to divide Europe on the issue.
European makers of solar panels were furious over the weekend at receiving so little after a year of litigation, and vowed to sue. The European settlement also undermined Obama administration officials, who had taken a tough stance toward China on solar panel trade and had tried for several months to persuade the European leaders to side with them.
After nearly a full day of silence from Washington, the administration issued a thinly veiled criticism late Saturday afternoon of Europe's decision to cut its own deal. ''We believe there needs to be a global solution, consistent with our trade laws, that creates stability and certainty in the various components of the solar sector,'' said Michael Froman, the United States trade representative.
Li Junfeng, a senior Chinese government energy policy maker, said that the trade deal was good for both China and the European Union. China has captured close to 80 percent of the European market for solar panels over the last several years, with exports that reached $27 billion in 2011, before the trade battle began. China has expanded its industry using huge loans from state-owned banks as well as cheap land and other incentives from government agencies. Industry executives say they expect China's market share to fall to between 60 and 70 percent with the minimum price agreed on Saturday.
The politics of the solar trade case within Europe were highly unusual from the start. In most European trade cases regarding an imported product, the main country in Europe making the same product energetically favors protection from subsidized imports. Other European countries tend to like low-cost imports and be less enthusiastic about imposing tariffs.
The European solar panel industry is concentrated in Germany, and has felt the brunt of the impact of lower prices, yet the German government emerged as the biggest critic of confronting China on solar panel exports. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany opposed the trade case from the very beginning, saying that it would be preferable to continue talking with Chinese officials about the issue. Solar panel manufacturers in Germany tend to be independent companies that are not part of the country's big industrial powerhouses like Volkswagen or BASF.
Germany has had far more success in exporting to China than any other European country, particularly in shipments of factory equipment, and Ms. Merkel has sought to cultivate a special relationship with Beijing. Most big German companies were unenthusiastic about the trade case, fearing that it could lead to a broader trade war that might hurt German exports.
''A tit-for-tat policy will more destabilize than help us,'' Martin Brudermüller, the vice chairman of the German chemicals giant BASF, said at a news conference in Hong Kong last month.
The German government not only opposed the case but also rallied other European governments to join them. China helped Germany do so by threatening to impose tariffs on imports of European wine if the European Commission imposed steep tariffs on Chinese solar panels, a threat that appalled France, although the risk of any actual imposition of tariffs seemed to recede with Saturday's deal.
Ocean Yuan, the founder and chief executive of Grape Solar, a solar panel distributor in Eugene, Ore., said that the minimum price of 56 euro cents a watt was lower than what the Chinese government had expected, as some in Beijing had anticipated that Brussels would drive a tougher bargain. But the deal has divided the Chinese solar industry, upsetting many small manufacturers, said Mr. Yuan, whose long career in the Chinese and American solar industries has given him a broad range of contacts.
A vast quantity of solar panels, produced by companies that have already gone bankrupt from selling panels below cost or are close to doing so, is available at deeply discounted prices, as low as 30 euro cents a watt.
Sales in Europe at such low prices will be banned under Saturday's agreement. Customers are only likely to pay the new minimum price of 56 euro cents per watt for the highest-quality solar panels with the best warranties, giving an advantage to the largest Chinese manufacturers. That is consistent with the Chinese government's goal of thinning its nation's solar panel industry to produce a few world-leading companies that can set high, profitable prices.
Out of 140 Chinese solar panel exporters, 50 refused to accept the minimum price, which means that they will face a prohibitive 47.6 percent tariff on any further shipments to the European Union. Since the United States Commerce Department imposed tariffs totaling only 31 percent last spring, the European Union's settlement could send another wave of extremely low-priced Chinese solar panels without warranties toward the United States instead.
''The terms may be set with the E.U., but we all know that China's excess production will continue to be targeted at other markets -- the U.S. and elsewhere,'' said Michael Wessel, a longtime trade lawyer in Washington who has advised the United Steelworkers union on solar panels. ''Rather than abide by the terms of its W.T.O. commitments, once again China has bullied others into submission.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); LITIGATION (75%); LOBBYING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MARKET SHARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



861 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Media Recruits a New Chief From The Atlantic

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Justin B. Smith, whose digital strategy swiftly transformed The Atlantic, one of the statelier media vessels around, is about to get a bigger boat.
On Monday, Bloomberg will announce that Mr. Smith, the president of Atlantic Media, will be named chief executive of the Bloomberg Media Group. He will report to Daniel L. Doctoroff, chief executive of Bloomberg. Andrew Lack, who managed the media division for five years, will become chairman.
After joining The Atlantic in 2007, Mr. Smith developed a reputation as an aggressive promoter of digital media who was able to reconfigure a 156-year-old magazine into a genuine multiplatform property. 
In a letter to the staff about Mr. Smith's departure, David Bradley, the owner of Atlantic Media, credited Mr. Smith with bringing the company to profitability for the first time under his ownership; doubling revenue; and creating a number of successful digital start-ups, including The Atlantic Wire and Quartz.
His quick results at the Atlantic Media Company drew the attention of executives at Bloomberg, who began talking to him at the end of last year.
''We know that every part of media is being disrupted by technology, and we need someone who understands that,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''Justin can drive things forward here because he has an incredibly digital sensibility with a unique understanding of the confluence of journalism and multiple platforms.''
The move will give Mr. Smith significant scale and a connection with Bloomberg's lucrative terminal business, which produces revenue that allows the company to invest aggressively in media properties. The company has had success in moving from a linear television business to a more diverse model of video distribution, while the acquisition of Businessweek gave Bloomberg an editorial cachet it historically lacked.
Even with those successes, the media division has long been treated as a marketing amenity for subscribers to the terminal business. Despite its recent growth, the media division has struggled to gain a consumer base for its properties, which include television, print, radio, mobile, events and digital media.
The company was heavily criticized several months ago after revelations that some of its reporters had used the Bloomberg terminals to gain access to data about its users, prompting Eric T. Schneiderman, attorney general of New York, to begin looking into the practice, The Wall Street Journal reported.
The company's assets -- its success, its size and a hard-driving business culture -- might make bringing about change difficult. But Mr. Smith said the fit was a natural one.
''If you look at the entrepreneurial roots of this company and its history of market disruption and innovation, I think it is the best positioned media company there is,'' he said. The theory that large companies cannot innovate, he said, ''has not been historically true at Bloomberg.'' He added, ''This is a company where you can take big risks with longer horizons.''
Before joining Atlantic Media, Mr. Smith opened the American edition of the British newsmagazine The Week in 2001. Before that, he was head of corporate strategy for The Economist in London, Hong Kong and New York. He also founded Breaking Media, a collection of Web sites that includes Above the Law, Dealbreaker and Fashionista.
Mr. Smith has no experience in the television business and said he would work closely with Mr. Lack in that area. He said he was interested in creating new products, including ones aimed at the global market, while bringing additional digital muscle to Bloomberg's existing businesses.
Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, met Mr. Smith at one of Atlantic Media's conferences and they became friends.
''How many people have really managed to be successful in digital media?'' Mr. Schmidt said in a phone call. ''Everyone has tried and few have been successful. Justin is one of them. He is moving very fast, but this is the next logical step. It's a serious gain for Bloomberg.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justin B. Smith, as president of Atlantic Media, developed a reputation as an aggressive promoter of digital media. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (91%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



862 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Outrage as Homeowners Prepare for Substantially Higher Flood Insurance Rates

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
For the last seven years, Palmer Doyle, a retired firefighter, has paid between $350 and $458 annually for federal flood insurance. He lives a block and a half from the water in Queens, but his premiums have stayed low because of a federal policy that had protected residents from sharp increases in flood insurance costs.
Now, though, the costs for Mr. Doyle are about to jump to as much as $15,000 annually over the next decade.
Like many in the New York region, he is facing a series of events that are having a stark impact on rates: an overhaul of the federal flood insurance program last year, the adoption of new flood maps for high-risk areas, and the impact of Hurricane Sandy. 
''I could live with $1,500,'' said Mr. Doyle, a resident of the Belle Harbor neighborhood. ''But $9,000, $15,000? There is no way on God's green earth I can pay that.''
As a result, government officials, grass-roots organizations and the residents are mobilizing to prevent the higher premiums from taking hold.
In Brick Township, N.J., local officials have paid a mapping expert to obtain certification in floodplain technology to challenge the Federal Emergency Management Agency's new flood maps.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has proposed changes to make flood insurance more affordable and accessible.
Senators from flood-prone states, including New York, New Jersey and Louisiana, have offered amendments and bills to extend the time frame over which the steep rates go into effect.
''We have a lot of people around the country who are just beginning to learn about this,'' said Dan Mundy, a resident of Broad Channel, Queens, who is a local activist and a retired firefighter. ''When they find out about it, they flip out.''
At the root of the fury is the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Act.
Passed by Congress in 2012, before Hurricane Sandy shellacked New York and New Jersey, the act reauthorized the National Flood Insurance Program. Lawmakers agreed that they had to make changes because the program was $18 billion in debt.
''Biggert-Waters was passed with overwhelmingly bipartisan support,'' said Carolyn Kousky, a fellow at Resources for the Future, a research group that has focused on flood insurance. ''The right and left were aligned in moving toward risk-based rates.''
The legislation called for the elimination of long-term subsidies that had kept down rates for homes in flood zones. Then came the hurricane last October.
Thousands of homes in the New York region suffered significant damage.
FEMA rushed to revise maps that had been long overdue, placing far more people in the floodplain.
Mayor Bloomberg's office said that by the 2050s, 800,000 New Yorkers would live in the 100-year-floodplain, more than double the current number.
Because of these changes, the mayor's office estimates that almost 20,000 New York homes could face sharply higher premiums.
''The risk that New York faces is a combination of residents being priced out of their homes and realistic mitigation measures not being incentivized by the strategy of the federal flood insurance program,'' Seth Pinsky, a senior mayoral aide, said.
Mr. Pinsky directed the Special Initiative for Rebuilding and Resiliency, set up by the mayor after the storm.
The group released a voluminous report last month that recommended that Biggert-Waters be amended so that residents could buy cheaper insurance with higher deductibles.
The report also called on FEMA to give financial credit to people who undertake renovations to protect their property, like moving boilers from the basement to the first floor.
Currently, the only way to obtain lower rates is to raise a home above certain elevation levels. That can be difficult in New York, where the housing stock is old, and homes are often attached to adjacent buildings.
Economists and insurance experts said the program needed to be overhauled to make it financially viable.
''The program is $26 billion in debt and much of that debt is borne by federal taxpayers who do not have flood insurance,'' said Frank W. Nutter, president of the Reinsurance Association of America. ''They are subsidizing those that do.''
The prospect of such steep increases has also stirred an outcry on the Jersey Shore.
Stephen C. Acropolis, mayor of Brick Township, used to pay $1,200 annually for flood insurance. His rates could go as high as $10,000 under Biggert-Waters.
''I will not pay $10,000 for flood insurance because the most I will get for my house is $80,000 to $90,000 to repair it'' if it is damaged in a storm, he said. ''Every 10 years, I will pay for my house to be totally replaced. It doesn't make any sense.''
When FEMA released new maps in December 2012, residents of communities like Brick Township said they were shocked.
The maps put more than 4,000 homes in the township into the riskiest flood area (called the ''velocity zone,'' or V Zone). Those houses would eventually face annual insurance rates of $31,500, up from as low as $1,000, Mr. Acropolis said.
In protest, the town teamed up with neighboring Toms River to pay for a mapping expert to obtain certification in the advanced software used to measure flood plains.
The expert, ''will lobby, or produce our own scientific data to say the way FEMA did it was off,'' Mr. Acropolis said.
Last month, FEMA revised its New Jersey maps and now only 850 people fall into the V Zone in Brick Township. But residents still face significant rate increases.
In December, George Kasimos, a real estate broker in Toms River, was put into a V Zone, which would have taken his rates to over $30,000 annually.
Now he is in a less risky zone, but he still has to raise his home three feet. His flood insurance will be $8,300 a year, he said.
''Do you think the average homeowner can afford a $600-a-month increase in flood insurance premiums or the cost to raise their homes?''
In January, Mr. Kasimos founded ''StopFemaNow,'' a Facebook page where he tried to figure out whether he should rebuild, elevate or do both.
The page now has 10,000 members who often discuss efforts to revamp the Biggert-Waters law.
Lawmakers have proposed several amendments and bills to reduce the impact of the legislation, though it is unclear whether any will pass.
When the bill was approved in the Senate in 2012, it was attached to a transportation bill and no debate was permitted.
One effect seems to be clear: Many people around the country may be considering walking away from their insurance, calling into question the premise of the legislation, which was to make the flood insurance program financially sustainable.
Eddie Deuron, an engineer for Chevron who lives in Louisiana, has paid flood insurance rates of $400 to $725 for 35 years. Now he has heard that he will pay $9,500 a year.
''I'd send it back in a naked envelope,'' he said. ''I would drop it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Kasimos of Toms River, N.J., was told he must raise his home three feet in order to pay $8,300 a year in insurance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOOD INSURANCE (94%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (89%); HURRICANES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MAYORS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



863 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food Versus Slow Food

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: While the time costs of preparing meals at home can be high, these costs go way down when cooking for several people at a time, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
Never before have so many Americans watched so many entertaining cooking shows on television and enjoyed so much excellent food writing. Never before have so many spent so little time cooking food.
This paradox of modern life invites consideration of some of the good old-fashioned home economics pioneered by the economists Margaret Reid and Hazel Kyrk in the 1930s. Both predicted that the increasing value of time and powerful economies of scale would lead to increased substitution of market purchases for home-produced goods and services. Both also warned of limits to such substitutability. 
Neither foresaw the extent to which the traditional housewife would be simultaneously liberated from and rendered obsolete in the kitchen. Average time per day devoted to cooking declined by 30 minutes between 1965 and 2007-08, a span of time for which detailed survey data are available.
Purchases of food away from home, expanding to 49 percent in 2011 from about 30 percent of all food dollars in 1965, and were a driving force behind this trend.
Also important was a shift toward purchases of prepared food, adding a range of choices such as frozen Asian cuisine to the classic TV dinner.

New household gadgets, including the now ubiquitous microwave oven, made it easier to defrost and reheat prepared foods. Indeed, the word "cooking" itself has become anachronistic. The American Time Use Survey first administered in 2003 categorizes the activity in broader, more generic terms as "food preparation and cleanup." In 2012, only 40 percent of men and 65 percent of women ages 15 and over engaged in that activity a day. On average, men spent 0.7 hours on food preparation and cleanup while women spent 1.2 hours on it.
In other words, women still do far more of it than men, but it consumes a relatively small portion of their total work day.
Changes in the relative productivity of paid and unpaid work were a driving force behind this transformation. As women's opportunities for employment outside the home grew, the opportunity cost of their time increased. As it became cheaper to purchase than to prepare food, women could contribute more to family living standards by finding paid employment.
Declining household size - and a growing tendency for people to live alone - also increased the relative cost of home cooking, because it reduced economies of scale in home food preparation.
By way of making this argument less abstract, a University of Massachusetts student and I conducted a small experiment. We compared the cost of buying a premium cheeseburger at a local fast-food restaurant with the cost of buying the ingredients and cooking one in my kitchen, including the cost of the time devoted to purchase and cleanup.
We chose cheeseburgers for this experiment because a lot of people eat them, we know how to cook them and it's easy to match the ingredients in order to create a comparable product. (Our intent is not to encourage cheeseburger consumption or to deprecate veggie burgers).
Rather than assuming an hourly wage to measure the value of food preparation time, we asked what hourly wage would equalize the price of a manufactured versus a home-produced cheeseburger. Anyone who values their time more than this hourly wage is likely to find the manufactured burger more cost-effective.
The purchased burger cost about $4 (not including taxes). The cost of ingredients for a comparable burger came to about $1. Shopping time (counting time only from the front of the grocery store to collection of the specific ingredients) came to about seven minutes. Putting food away and setting out materials required 10 minutes. Actual cooking time came to about eight minutes and cleanup time to five, for a total of 30 minutes.
So, cooking one cheeseburger at home saved about $3 but required 30 minutes of work. Ignoring taxes, small differences in quality, convenience, waiting time at the restaurant, the cost of household utilities, environmental impact, social consequences and human feelings, this implies a break-even wage of about $6 an hour, below the federal minimum wage.
But this calculation changes radically with the number of burgers cooked, because there are significant economies of scale in home cooking. It takes almost the same amount of time to prepare four cheeseburgers as one - about 32 minutes (shopping time and cooking time remain unchanged; setup and cleanup time increase slightly).
The difference in the price of four purchased burgers ($16) and ingredients ($4) for four home-produced ones is $12, which, with 32 minutes preparation time, implies a break-even wage of about $22.50 an hour, still less than my academic salary but a far greater reward for cooking than $6 an hour.
This experiment, however anecdotal, illustrates three important points. First, efforts to encourage people to cook more nutritious and delicious meals at home need to take the value of time into account, which they haven't always done in the past. This issue also comes up in criticisms of public food assistance programs that assume low-income families always have sufficient time to cook food "from scratch."
Second, people who cook for one another - whether family or friends - on a regular basis are likely to realize more significant economic benefits than those who cook alone, because there are significant economies of scale in food preparation at home.
Finally, and most importantly, the measurement of "cost-effectiveness" depends which effects you care most about. As the Reid-Kyrk studies emphasized, it's easier to calculate relative costs per unit consumed than to estimate more indirect, long-run effects on physical and social health.
They believed that household production would continue to play an important economic role because of its contributions to the quality of family and community life. That causality runs both ways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WOMEN (78%); MEN (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PREPARED FOODS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



864 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Driving in America May Have Peaked in 2004

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Although America is a car country, the number of cars on the road peaked before the recession began in 2008. 

 BODY:
At the dawn of the automobile age, America took the motor vehicle, made it its own and shaped it into something that has influenced transportation the world over for the last century. There's no doubt about it, Americans are car people. But a University of Michigan study published this month reports that, by several measures, light-duty vehicle driving miles in the United States peaked in 2004, before the economic downturn.
"If those rates had peaked in 2008, there wouldn't be a story," said Michael Sivak, a research professor at the school's Transportation Research Institute. "But it happened four years before that." 
The measures of light-duty distances driven per person, per registered vehicle, per licensed driver and per household - compiled from federal data - all reached peaks in 2004, and had declined 5 percent to 9 percent by 2011, the Michigan study says. Vehicle miles traveled by the entire American light-duty fleet peaked later, in 2006, at around 2.8 trillion miles - but still before the recession that shook the auto industry. In 2011, the most recent year available, that number had fallen to 2.6 trillion miles. 
In an interview, Mr. Sivak said that population increases and an improving economy would likely send the total miles traveled in the United States up again.
"I'm reasonably confident that 2006 was a temporary peak in driving," he said. "I'm less confident that the peaks in the rates reached in 2004 are temporary."
If people are driving less, it is a major milestone in the history of the American automobile. Mr. Sivak cites four potential reasons: increased telecommuting, a graying of the driving population, greater use of public transit and relocation to cities. The latter two are obviously closely related, since public transit tends to be concentrated around urban centers.
Other experts reinforce the University of Michigan's study. Daniel Sperling, founding director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Davis and co-author of the book "Two Billion Cars: Driving Toward Sustainability," said in an interview that the decline in automobile travel was also reflected globally in industrialized countries. And he pointed closer to home, to California, which has taken steps, with some evident success, to reduce road miles as part of an overall greenhouse gas reduction campaign. "The evidence is getting stronger and stronger that it's happening," he said.
Mr. Sperling cited traffic congestion as a factor that discouraged people from driving, as well as changing demographics and, although it was not yet definitively established, a tendency of young people "to be more infatuated with social media than with cars and driving."
In an interview, Micheline Maynard, former Detroit bureau chief for The New York Times and author of a coming book called "Curbing Cars: Rethinking How We Get Around," said, "Driving is definitely down, though I would certainly not say the auto industry is going away. I think it can maintain 15-million annual sales years in the United States for some time to come, although some people were predicting we'd be at 20 million vehicles by now."
Ms. Maynard said that the percentage of teenagers getting driver's licenses has reached "recent lows," a conclusion also reflected in Mr. Sivak's work. She also pointed to families whose finances were heavily affected by the recession.
"One of the expenses you can cut most easily is your car," she said. The Obama administration's aggressive financing of public transit has also led to improved street car, light rail and bus alternatives, she said, adding that bicycle and car-sharing have also risen as options.
It's not surprising that as vehicle miles are declining, so are the number of cars and trucks in the United States. In an earlier report, Mr. Sivak found that the number of registered light-duty vehicles on American roads peaked at 236 million in 2008. The vehicle population stood at 234 million in 2011.

        
University of Michigan Students Ready Solar Car for Australian Race
        
Wheelies: The Cheaper Used Cars Edition
        
Wheelies: The More Subarus Edition
        
Audi, Architects and the New Museum Discuss Tomorrow's Transportation
        
Wheelies: The Costly Car Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); TELECOMMUTING (51%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%) automobiles; Maynard, Micheline; Obama, Barack; Recession and Depression; Transit Systems; United States; United States Economy; University of California, Davis; university of michigan; Automobiles; University of Michigan

COMPANY: DAVIS & CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: University of California, Davis; University of Michigan

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%) Maynard, Micheline; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



865 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Froth

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Obama&#8217;s disturbing remarks. 

 BODY:
Carola Binder parses President Obama's big interview with the Times, and thinks it hints at a Summers, or anyway non-Yellen appointment. Maybe; in any case, can I say just how really stupid it is for the White House to have allowed this show even to get started? Here we have Obama trying to reboot his economic message, and much of the reporting is instead focused on palace intrigue. 
Anyway, the passage in question is striking; whatever it says about the Fed succession, it does give us a sense of how the people Obama listens to talk. And it's not good:
And what I'm looking for is somebody who understands the Fed has a dual mandate, that that's not just lip service; that it is very important to keep inflation in check, to keep our dollar sound, and to ensure stability in the markets. But the idea is not just to promote those things in the abstract. The idea is to promote those things in service of the lives of ordinary Americans getting better.
And when unemployment is still too high, and long-term unemployment is still too high, and there's still weak demand in a lot of industries, I want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, let's make sure that we're growing the economy, but let's also keep an eye on inflation, and if it starts heating up, if the markets start frothing up, let's make sure that we're not creating new bubbles.
So, here we are with inflation at a long-term low, many economists arguing that we need higher inflation expectations, and unemployment the overwhelming problem we face. Yet Obama appears if anything to give more emphasis to inflation-fighting than to unemployment reduction, and throws in stuff about bubbles; basically, he has a definite tight-money lean. I don't know who it's coming from.
And this has, by the way, been true all along. Back in the fall of 2009 the word I got was that senior Administration officials believed that we were in a Treasury bubble,and that long-term interest rates - then around 3.5 percent - might soar any day now. This in turn was partly behind the disastrous "pivot" away from unemployment to deficits.
The bad news from that Times interview is that it suggests that the president is still listening to the people who were telling him, four years ago, to be afraid of surging rates unless we turned to fiscal austerity. Not good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



866 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Pay Cash

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Chief financial officers are more optimistic. A report says small businesses are particularly vulnerable to climate change. But for one fishmonger, business still stinks. Do you pay your interns? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The Economy: The President's Speech 
President Obama makes a big speech about the economy and says, "Washington has taken its eye off the ball." A survey from the National Association for Business Economics shows that business activity in the first quarter increased at its fastest pace in a year. The growth of the economy is moving from "slow" to "moderate," according to the American Chemistry Council. Chief Financial Officers are more optimistic, and a Price Waterhouse Coopers survey finds that business owners are, too. Lou Basenese points to five signs that the economy is not on the brink of collapse.
 The Data: Looking Bullish
Economic activity in Chicago improved slightly, and conditions in the Kansas City region(pdf) remain positive. June's sales of existing homes slipped, but sales of new homes continued to rise. The misery index looks bullish for stocks. The factory sector picked up steam, but global steel output showed weakness in June. Strong North American sales propelled General Motors' profits. Ford's profits "smashed" expectations, and the company increased its domestic hiring. But here are three charts that may dispel the myth of a manufacturing renaissance. According to Russell Investments, all economic indicators are within typical ranges. 
 Finance: Pay Cash 
The owner of a fast-growing business explains why she always pays cash for inventory. Catherine Clifford explains why venture capitalists and entrepreneurs often don't see eye to eye. More entrepreneurs are finding pawn shops to be a useful source of cash. The case for Lawrence Summers taking over the Federal Reserve is "shrinking." 
 People: The Open-Office Curse 
Meg Graham laments the curse of the open office. Shreya Shah has a few suggestions to get employees to stick around. Cracked's Micah Duke highlights four misguided attempts to bond with employees, including: "Sears C.E.O. chats with employees under fake name, gets caught." This is the periodic table of humanity's worst vices. A survey shows what Australian employees hate most about being in offices. Here are a few rules to help employees have a better office life. Tim Berry shares three things he wants most from his employees.
 Health Insurance: Making Sense of the Law 
For the Chamber of Commerce, $1 billion in lobbying has not paid off as much as expected. A health insurer says small employers are scaling back benefits. An owner of a diner says the new health law is hurting small businesses. A bunch of free webinars are scheduled to help owners make sense of the law.
 Management: How To Grow 
David Waring provides a step-by-step guide on how to name a business, including: "Cross off any names that could be confusing or are not easy to remember, pronounce, and spell." Here are 10 tips to keep communication projects on track. Jayne O'Donnell gives examples of businesses figuring out the best way to grow. Patricia Lotich explores different types of organizational structures. A report says small businesses are particularly vulnerable to climate change and extreme weather. Here's how to prepare your family business for the next generation.
 Marketing: The Unsubscribers 
Jordie van Rijn makes the case for testing e-mail marketing efforts. Jack Neff reports that small businesses are dropping advertising for other types of promotion. Patricia Redsicker suggests six marketing trends to watch. Jack Wallen believes there are 10 innovative ways to expand the reach of your marketing. Beth Hayden gives three reasons you shouldn't sweat "unsubscribes." Peter Sandeen offers advice for improving Web conversion rates. Jason Boies lists four smart customer service tips.
 Start-Up: Advice From Rihanna 
Pam Moore advises entrepreneurs to quit trying to monetize their businesses and instead monetize their passion. This is how a founder survived the brutal, early days of starting up (and then sold his company for $100 million). These 10 tech start-ups are attracting insane interest on LinkedIn. Amy Levin-Epstein suggests six signs a start-up will be a success. Here are 10 start-up tips that come from hip-hop lyrics, including: "Never mind what haters say, ignore them 'til they fade away." The University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School is producing three times as many entrepreneurs as it did five years ago.
 Retail: Business Stinks
According to Venessa Wong, there are four reasons McDonald's is worried about the near future, including: "Higher labor and commodity costs are shrinking margins and giving the company 'less ability to take price, cost pressures.'" Starbucks plans to enter the yogurt market. This shopkeeper made no apologies that his fish business stinks.
 Social Media: Just Give Up 
Ross Kimbarovsky reports on data that could support giving up on social media marketing. Chipotle stages a bogus Twitter hack for a promotional campaign. Ivan Widjaya has a nice pocket guide to social media for small businesses. Google Hangouts On Air is a success for this television station. Facebook shares soar, boosted by small-business ads, and Erny Peibst offers advice for increasing Facebook likes on a budget. Miriam Salpeter says that never modifying your profile is one of the common mistakes people make on LinkedIn. This infographic summarizes why you should advertise on social media. Another infographic explains why kittens and bacon go viral. Abdul Rahman suggests 10 free Web hosting sites. Here are four simple ways to protect the reputation of your business. In-the-way-guy ruins a proposal photo and becomes a viral meme.
 Around The World: Epic Town Meetings 
The royal baby is expected to ignite a retail sales boom. Britain's economy is on the mend but follow-on financing for British start-ups stalls. French business confidence increases to a 15-month high, and Spanish unemployment falls for the first time in two years. European stocks hit a seven-week high. Sara Miller Llana explains how Poland's entrepreneurs are reinventing the "private operator" stigma. A small town in Canada advertises its televised City Council meetings as if they were an epic blockbuster. In Argentina, Coca-Cola is selling soda with a green label, bottle, and ingredients. Ravi Venkatesan has a few words of wisdom for dealing with bribery in foreign markets. South Korea's growth surges, and Japan issues an upbeat outlook. A report says the Internet is getting faster in less-developed countries.
 Technology: Exploding Printers
Flying drones are now delivering food to restaurant tables. Apple reports earnings, acquires HopStop and gets hacked. A stock market analyst explains why Microsoft will win. Some are predicting 3D printing will explode in 2014, thanks to the expiration of important patents, and here are nine ways 3D printing is going to change business. Tom Simonite thinks Gmail's inbox filters are hurting e-mail marketers. Twenty-two percent of tech leaders say wearable computing is the next big thing in mobile. And here is an amazing video from a remote-control plane flying into Niagara Falls.
 Tweet Of The Week 
@YouTernMark - A paid internship doesn't mean a GOOD internship. Mentorship, contribution and networking important, too.
 The Week's Best Quotes 
 Jamie Dimon explains why summer jobs are a smart investment in our economic future: "Summer jobs are where we learn to show up on time, to work with a team, to get along with a boss and to enjoy having a job. It's also where we learn the deep satisfaction of a job well done and a paycheck to reward that effort."
 Leo Babauta has a few great thoughts about living the quiet life: "When someone talks to you, instead of jumping in with something about yourself, just listen. Absorb. Reflect their thoughts back to them. Appreciate their beauty."
 This Week's Question: Do you pay interns?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week In Small Business: Mibblio, Kaggle and Shodogg
        
This Week In Small Business: The Employer Mandate
        
This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder
        
This Week in Small Business: Analytics and Hashtags
        
This Week in Small Business: Cronuts!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); INSURANCE (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Social Media; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



867 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Frank Bruni)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: An Olympic Legend on Boycotts and Bigotry

BYLINE: FRANK BRUNI


HIGHLIGHT: Greg Louganis talks about Russia, gays, the Winter Games and a teachable moment. 

 BODY:
Last week, as Russia's cruel and repressive laws regarding gays and lesbians drew rapidly intensifying concern, gay bars throughout the United States pulled Russian vodka from their shelves. LGBT Americans and their supporters seemed to agree: a message had to be sent to Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin, and a boycott of Stolichnaya was one way to do it.
But there's considerable difference of opinion about what would be a much bigger, more consequential boycott: of the coming winter Olympics.
They're to be held in the Russian city of Sochi early next year, and in a recent Op-Ed in The Times, the celebrated playwright Harvey Fierstein wrote that "American and world leaders must speak out against Mr. Putin's attacks and the violence they foster." 
"The Olympic Committee must demand retraction of these laws under threat of boycott," Fierstein continued.

He used the B word even more pointedly and directly in a subsequent appearance on MSNBC, saying that economic pain, which would certainly be felt if the Olympics were minimized or largely abandoned, is a language Putin can understand. 
"You have to starve the rat out-Putin is a rat," Fierstein said, adding: "My feeling is we should boycott the Olympics."
Greg Louganis's feeling is that we should not.
I spoke to Louganis over the weekend, curious about what he had to say. He's arguably the best known and most accomplished male athlete in America ever to come out of the closet, which he did shortly after his Olympic career ended.
And what an Olympic career it was. Louganis is one of the greatest divers the world has ever seen, with medals from the games of 1976, 1984 and 1988.
You'll notice a missing year in that sequence: 1980. He has nothing from those games, and not because there was a downturn in his astonishingly long career. He has nothing from those games, held in Moscow, because the United States boycotted them in protest of the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan.
"It was pretty devastating," recalled Louganis, who was just then at the apex of his career. "For most of us, we train our entire lives for that one moment in time." He said that while he was able to hang around for 1984, when he won two gold medals in Los Angeles, and even 1988, when he won another two gold medals in Seoul, other athletes who missed out on the 1980 games never had another moment. And there'd be athletes just like that this time around: athletes for whom the 2014 Olympics in Sochi are a one and only chance.
As a gay man, Louganis said, he was horrified by what he learned only recently about Russian laws and Putin's scapegoating of gays and lesbians.
"It was really very disturbing," he said. "But then somebody came forward and said, 'We should boycott the Olympics.' I said, 'Wait a minute.' I had to chime in."
"Boycotts don't work," he said, mentioning the tit-for-tat dynamic they can set in motion, reflected in the decision by the Soviet Union and Eastern bloc countries to skip the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles. "Boycotts hurt the wrong people." He was referring to the athletes caught in the crosshairs.
He raised an additional worry: that if advocates for LGBT rights succeeded in getting the United States and other countries to abandon the Sochi games, they might seem to be overreaching and might incur ill will.
"In many people's eyes, that would be very selfish," Louganis said.
Right now there's not a broad, ardent push among leading LGBT organizations and among the politicians who support them for a boycott, and my sense is that there won't be, partly because the Sochi Olympics present opportunities shy of a boycott for consciousness raising. I'll come to that in a bit.
But the dilemma suggested by Fierstein's and Louganis's conflicting impulses-threaten a boycott, because Russia's disregard for human rights can't be condoned and indulged; steer clear of such talk, because it could backfire-reflects thorny political calculations that gays and lesbians have faced and continue to face on other fronts.
There was, for example, considerable discussion and disagreement about how hard to press for explicit mention of gays and lesbians in the immigration reform bill that recently passed the Senate. Was such mention important enough to lengthen the odds that the bill would pass? LGBT leaders were forced to mull this, factoring in the effect of whatever position they took on their relationship with the Democratic Party.
In regard to Sochi, many advocates for LGBT rights believe that the situation of the Winter Games in a country of such pronounced bigotry presents a unique chance to educate people worldwide about the persistence and wages of homophobia and to recruit prominent athletes and sports fans to the cause of equal rights.
To that end, two LGBT rights organizations-Athlete Ally, an American group devoted to the eradication of homophobia in sports, and All Out, a global network that uses social media to rally support-have resolved to join forces to figure out ways to publicize Russia's regressive laws, get people to express their opposition to them and turn the Sochi games into, well, a teachable moment. 
"This is an opportunity to move global opinion like no other," Brian Ellner, a member of Athlete Ally's board of directors, told me recently. Ellner was instrumental in securing the passage of New York state's gay marriage law in 2011.
"Winning friends and allies helped us win marriage fights in legislatures and at the ballot box and that strategy can work here," he said. "A boycott will anger some of our most potent allies in the fight for equality: athletes and fans. As opposed to staying away, we can make a powerful global statement for fairness by showing up with an army of allies."
Louganis said he's poised to be among them. He recently signed on formally as an ambassador for Athlete Ally, told me he wants to encourage other athletes to make clear their concern about laws that discriminate against gays and lesbians, and added that he'd consider traveling to Sochi to speak out, if that seemed like a constructive strategy.
He recalled that he and the man he is engaged to marry traveled to Nepal last year to be present at a first-ever LGBT sports festival there. The two of them appeared at a news conference, Louganis said.
"And the first question was, 'You're together with Johnny: who's the man and who's the woman, who's the husband and who's the wife?'," Louganis said, making a point of how mired in musty stereotypes so many people around the world still are.
His answer, he said, was: "That depends. What time is it?"

        
Portman's Progress
        
Carrying a Cause to the Super Bowl
        
Would This Post Get Me Jail Time in Russia?
        
Hatred You Can Hum To
        
Blacks and Marriage Equality: An Update

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (70%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%) Fierstein, Harvey; Homosexuality; Louganis, Greg; Olympic Games (2014); Russia; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Sochi (Russia)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Fierstein, Harvey; Louganis, Greg

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (67%) Russia; Sochi (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



868 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the Glaxo Case in China

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: China&#8217;s investigation into accusations that the British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline bribed doctors and public officials to increase its sales contrasts with the approach by the United States authorities in such cases. 

 BODY:
In advertising, the adage is that "sex sells." In the world of white-collar crime, it is rare that there is anything other than money at stake, but the continuing corruption investigation in China into the British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline now has a dash of the libido to draw even more attention.
A Glaxo regional sales manager said that the company's representatives "established good personal relations with doctors by catering to their pleasures or offering them money, in order to make them prescribe more drugs," according to the official Chinese news agency Xinhua, which was cited in a report by The Guardian. 
The Ministry of Public Security in China has been conducting the growing investigation into accusations that Glaxo used bribes and other benefits for doctors and public officials to increase its sales. The payments were funneled through travel agencies, totaling approximately $450 million. 
While the tawdry aspects of the case will draw the headlines, the investigation has lessons for companies about how to deal with corruption issues while doing business in China, whose approach to investigations differs greatly compared with that of the authorities in the United States.
Glaxo's initial response to reports of the Chinese government's investigation was to make the usual promise of full cooperation while taking a dismissive approach to the potential problem. A statement released on July 11 said, "We continuously monitor our businesses to ensure they meet our strict compliance procedures. We have done this in China and found no evidence of bribery or corruption of doctors or government officials. However, if evidence of such activity is provided, we will act swiftly on it."
Glaxo responded a lot more swiftly than it might have expected when, just four days later, the company took a different tack in saying that "these allegations are shameful and we regret this has occurred." And on July 22, the new head of Glaxo's Chinese operations issued a statement that "certain senior executives of GSK China who know our systems well appear to have acted outside of our processes and controls, which breaches Chinese law."
Over the last decade, since the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002, publicly traded corporations have poured significant resources into their compliance programs to prevent wrongdoing, or to at least be an early warning system for what might become a problem. Companies know that it is always better to self-report a violation than to have a government agent come knocking on the door. 
The buildup in corporate internal controls may lead to a false sense of security that the company will be able to ferret out internal wrongdoing before it burgeons into a serious concern. So there is often an urge to make the obligatory offer of the olive branch of cooperation when an accusation of wrongdoing arises accompanied by an assurance that the company had determined it did nothing wrong. 
Glaxo had received a report from an anonymous internal whistle-blower about potential bribery of doctors in China. But the company said its investigation showed no evidence of corruption, so it appears to have initially viewed the Ministry of Public Security investigation as much ado about nothing.
What we do not know is how thorough Glaxo's investigation was and whether it truly dug into the issues that have come to the surface, especially given that hiding about $450 million in illicit payments can't be easy. 
Overseas corruption investigations can be particularly difficult for companies because few employees or agents are willing to admit to making questionable payments, much less providing sexual favors, and so are unlikely to be forthcoming. One can never be sure that the first review has in fact gotten even close to the bottom of the issue, especially if those persons know how to avoid internal control systems.
Another aspect of the investigation sure to draw the attention of companies doing business in China is the detention of a large number of Glaxo employees and agents by the Ministry of Public Security. TheNew York Times reported last Friday that 18 employees and other medical personnel had been detained, which is in addition to four employees held at the start of the investigation.
Robert M. Radick, a partner at the white-collar law firm Morvillo Abramowitz, wrote for Forbes that this signals the appearance of a "new policeman" on the foreign bribery beat. And unlike the Justice Department in the United States and the Serious Fraud Office in England, this is a much scarier cop.
Glaxo had disclosed earlier that it was having "discussions" with the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission over possible foreign corruption issues in its overseas operations, including China. Those investigations are sure to heat up in light of the company's admissions of violations to the Chinese authorities.
But note how much more genteel the United States has been in dealing with Glaxo - discussions are far different from having a number of employees detained for questioning. It is rare in a white-collar investigation in this country to have anything more than an interview, usually with counsel present, in a prosecutor's office during the investigatory stage of the case.
Companies accustomed to how the Justice Department acts should be prepared to deal with legal systems that rely on the detention of potential suspects, sometimes for an extended period, as a regular part of their investigations. Among those detained in the Glaxo bribery investigation are an American and a British citizen, so those at risk in an overseas bribery case is not limited to nationals working in their own country.
Bribery in foreign business operations has become a bane for many global corporations. American companies like Avon and Wal-Mart have disclosed potential problems in their Chinese divisions because of possible corruption. 
The Glaxo case raises a potential new threat to corporate employees caught up in these cases because of the potential that they may be held in custody for questioning about their work for the company. That's a prospect no one wants to face.

        
Chinese Stocks Plummet on News of Justice Department Inquiry
        
China Opts for Only Small Steps to Stimulate Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BRIBERY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (76%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%) China; Frauds and Swindling; GlaxoSmithKline PLC; Ministry of Public Security of the People's Republic of China; GlaxoSmithKline PLC|GSK|NYSE; Healthcare; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: GlaxoSmithKline PLC; Ministry of Public Security of the People&#039;s Republic of China

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (93%); GSK (LSE) (93%); BIOC (EGX) (93%) GlaxoSmithKline PLC; GSK; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



869 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund's Suit on Fannie and Freddie May Spell Trouble for U.S.

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF and DAVID ZARING


HIGHLIGHT: The government&#8217;s failure to cleanly deal with Fannie and Freddie&#8217;s stock and bondholders during the financial crisis is coming back to haunt it, the authors write. 

 BODY:
The lawsuit brought by the hedge fund Perry Capital against the federal government over the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bailout may be the case that finally subjects the government's bailout practices to closer outside scrutiny. 
The Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bailouts were two of the biggest and earliest of the financial crisis. In September 2008, a government team led by the Treasury secretary at the time, Henry M. Paulson Jr., placed the companies into a conservatorship and provided them with hundreds of billions of dollars in backstop financing. In return, the government required the companies to issue super-preferred stock to the Treasury Department, stock that would pay the government before all other creditors, at a 10 percent rate. 
As part of the rescue, the common stock and some classes of preferred were rendered worthless, or so the government assumed. It was a punitive act meant to penalize these security holders for failing to properly supervise the two government-sponsored entities. 
But as was often the case in the bailouts, the government cherry-picked creditor classes. Senior debt holders went unharmed, mainly because the government thought to impair their investments would further spook markets. 
The bailout was borne out of the government's desperate attempts not to put the two companies' trillions of debt on its books. Even though the government thought they were worthless, the common stock and preferred stock were left outstanding, so it could be argued that the two government-sponsored enterprises were still independent. At the time, the government likely thought this wouldn't be a problem because Fannie and Freddie were thought to be insolvent. 
But by 2012, Fannie and Freddie unexpectedly turned back into profitable firms. Seeking a way to keep the common and preferred stock worth nothing, the government changed the way the two paid their dividends in a fashion that meant all dividends went directly to Treasury - that any remaining common and preferred-stock holders would receive nothing. 
Perry Capital has accumulated both common and preferred stock in the two entities before this change, and now wants those dividends to be paid to those shareholders once the government's priority preferred stock has received its 10 percent. It argues that the government failed to justify the change in dividend payments. 
The firm is now suing, pitting its resources against the federal government. Perry is taking this matter seriously, hiring the superstar litigator Theodore Olson. Mr. Olson has good experience suing governments, and is the lead lawyer representing the bondholders in thebig sovereign debt litigation going on in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan. 
The government's failure to cleanly deal with Fannie and Freddie is coming back to haunt it with Perry Capital's suit. 
During the financial crisis, the government did deals first, and thought about the consequences later. In an article that the two of us published in 2009, we labeled it "regulation by deal," and observed that it was a form of regulation immune from most of the usual sources of oversight. The deals went unchallenged in court, and were paid for by Congress with little tightening placed on the purse strings.
At the time everyone was too worried to protest much. And to be fair to the government, it was acting on a tight time frame with limited options. 
Now, things are calmer, and it is going to be harder for the government to act so quickly or cleanly. Perry Capital's suit is not aimed at the initial bailout but rather the dividend restructuring last year. It's clear that the government was merely cleaning up something it failed to put in place back in the financial crisis. The smart people at Treasury likely just didn't think about it. 
But the government's actions are going to be much harder to justify now that the crisis is receded. 
Still, the sailing will not be entirely smooth for Perry Capital. It is not clear that the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, the statute under which the government has been acting, contemplated these sorts of suits, and that statute is one of the legal bases for the complaint. 
Whenever the government is sued, its actions are reviewed deferentially by the courts; when the Treasury Department is engaged in crisis management, that deference, for better or worse, gets even bigger. The question here is whether the courts will even want to wade into this mess, or will instead simply defer to the government. 
Moreover, the ordinary remedy if the plaintiff wins in an administrative law case like this one is a remand to the agency, rather than a cash payment to the plaintiff. A remand would give the Treasury Department an opportunity to better articulate its reasons for the change in dividend policy, but would do nothing for Perry Capital's bottom line. 
Finally, the government is likely to argue that the firm has not suffered an injury serious enough to sue over, despite all those billions in dividends diverted. Perry holds both common and private sector preferred stock in Fannie and Freddie. But after the conservatorship, purchasers of the both types of stock could be construed as having some notice that the government might vary the dividend payment. If Perry Capital purchased its stake after 2008, it might not have standing to sue.
A lot of money is at stake. Fannie and Freddie are expected to pay tens of billions to the federal government over the coming years as the housing market recovers. The case also will affect how Congress and the government ultimately restructure these entities, as the government is now more likely to be more considerate of the preferred and common stockholders, if for no other reason than the desire to avoid litigation risk. 
Whatever its outcome, though, the case may be more important for offering a look at the government's drastic action during and after the financial crisis, which until now have been almost completely insulated from judicial oversight. Many have criticized the quiescence in Congress and the courts related to these extremely important and very expensive government programs. This may now be their chance to have this conduct reviewed. 
Moreover, Perry Capital's allegations suggest that the potential abuses often associated with government ownership - a dog that has not yet barked much in the wake of the crisis - are not entirely hypothetical. 
The government has kept an arm's length distance from the car companies it bailed out, and was repaid so quickly by most of the financial firms that received bailout money that it did not have much of a chance to tinker with corporate policy. It may be that, as the government prepares to celebrate its fifth year as the controlling shareholder of Fannie and Freddie, that it is growing increasingly ill suited to its role. 
Attempts to fix mistakes made in the depths of the financial crisis are going to be harder now that the courts and Congress are not as scared of challenging the executive branch as they were back then. This is normal cycle of these crises. The executive branch gets more latitude during the time, but afterward there is a demand for accountability. 
In other words, now that the government has saved the markets, the markets want them gone. And in the background looms a hard look at the decisions made during those dark days five years ago. 
Treasury Suit Announcement
Perry Capital v. Lew - Complaint as Filed

        
Lawsuit Tries Creative Approach Against Fannie and Freddie Bailout
        
Big Profits at Fannie and Freddie Reignite Debate on Housing Supports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PREFERRED STOCK (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BONDS (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); WRITERS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAWYERS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); CELEBRITIES (67%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); Perry Capital LLC; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Deal Professor; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); Perry Capital LLC

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



870 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Walkabout: Jewel Thief Strikes France; American Business Travelers Return to Europe

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A look at top travel stories from the weekend. 

 BODY:
 Hitchcockian A jewel thief left the Carlton Intercontinental Hotel in Cannes, France, above, on Sunday morning with a glittering haul worth perhaps $50 million. And, no, it's not a plot from "To Catch a Thief." (New York Times) 
 Back to Euro-Business American business trips to Europe dropped significantly after the 2008 recession, but companies are returning to the continent in large numbers. (Skift)
 Satisfying Stays Overall guest satisfaction with North American hotels is up significantly from last year, according to a J.D. Power and Associates study. (Los Angeles Times)
 Smooth Flying The chance of dying in an airplane is vanishingly small. One might wonder, then, if the Transportation Security Administration has found the right balance between safety and convenience with its notoriously burdensome airport screening procedures. (New York Times)

        
Calendar: Coming Events in New Orleans; Wisconsin; Goteborg, Sweden
        
Tackling Paris With Children
        
Room With a Bike
        
'The Royal Child,' With Tea
        
A QE2 Hotel May Ply the Waters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); CALENDARS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); AIRPORTS (86%); CHILDREN (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (52%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



871 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: White House Ties Immigration Overhaul to Farms

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Immigration reform includes a pathway to citizenship and a guest-worker program would shore up the farm labor supply, a White House report argues. 

 BODY:
An immigration overhaul of the kind supported by President Obama would help ensure a stable, predictable work force for the nation's agricultural industries, a new report released by the White House argues.
The 20-page document is the latest effort by Mr. Obama's administration to try to document what it says are the benefits of providing a pathway to citizenship for the approximately 11 million illegal immigrants, some of whom toil in the fields across the country. Critics, however, argued that the industry's problems could be addressed with smaller tweaks to existing law.
"Currently, the agriculture industry is hampered by a broken immigration system that fails to support a predictable and stable work force," the report states. "It is time to act to fix the broken immigration system in a way that requires responsibility from everyone - both from workers here illegally and from those who hire them - and guarantees that everyone is playing by the same rules." 
Advocates for overhauling the nation's immigration laws say the current system leaves the agriculture industry vulnerable to labor shortages when the government cracks down on businesses that employ illegal workers. Under new laws like the one passed by the Senate last month, the report argues, agricultural companies would be assured of a work force that is not threatened with deportation.
"Among its most important provisions, the bipartisan bill would provide an earned path to citizenship for unauthorized farmworkers who are vital to our nation's agriculture industry, and a new temporary worker program negotiated by major grower associations and farmworker groups," the report says.
One of those provisions would let undocumented agriculture workers gain legal status almost immediately after the law is passed. Assuming they meet other requirements and pass background checks, they would then be able to apply for a green card - giving them permanent status to work in the United States - after only five years, half the time it would take for other immigrants who had been in the country illegally.
The Senate legislation also proposes a new guest-worker program that would let hundreds of thousands of workers into the country legally to work in the agriculture industry temporarily. It would replace an existing program that many employers say is too cumbersome to be effective.
The White House report cites studies showing that without such changes in immigration law, a labor shortage for agricultural work could significantly affect the output and exports of the nation's farms. 
"In this scenario, after 15 years, three such sectors (fruit, vegetables, and nursery products) would experience a 2.0- to 5.4-percent decrease in output and a 2.5- to 9.3-percent decrease in exports, compared with the base forecast," the report says.
Critics of the immigration overhaul question the need for sweeping changes to the nation's laws. They argue that there have not been the kind of agriculture worker shortages that farmers claim. And they say that of all the workers in the United States illegally, only a small percentage work on farms.
"The question of agriculture is almost entirely irrelevant because it's a tiny fraction," said Steven Camarota, the director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes the Senate legislation.
Mr. Camarota said that relatively small changes to the existing guest worker programs for agriculture workers would be enough to satisfy most farmers. He dismissed the White House study as nothing more than a public relations gimmick.
"Agriculture is not at the center of this debate," he said. "It's only at the center of a public-relations campaign."

        
Anti-Citizenship Protesters Issue Warning to House
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, July 14
        
Young Immigrants Stage Citizenship Ceremony at the Capitol
        
A Focus on Border Security and Temporary Visas as Senators Return to Immigration
        
Economic Nudge for an Immigration Overhaul

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); FARM LABOR (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (62%) Agriculture and Farming; Foreign Workers; Illegal Immigration; Immigration and Emigration; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



872 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Don't Give Up on Health Care Cost Control

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL and TOPHER SPIRO


HIGHLIGHT: An obscure law called the S.G.R. is a powerful bargaining chip in getting doctors to agree to payment reform 

 BODY:
S.G.R. More than 99 percent of Americans have no idea what these three letters stand for. And yet they are extremely valuable: worth about $140 billion. This week, a House committee will finally take up the issue.
The S.G.R., or the Sustainable Growth Rate formula, was enacted as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to restrain the inevitable increase in Medicare's annual spending on physician services. It set a reasonable target for each year's increase, and Medicare was supposed to spend less than that amount. If it failed, then the per-service payments to physicians in the following year would be reduced to hit the target. 
Nice idea in theory. Never worked out in practice.
Since 2002, the cost for physician services has consistently exceeded the S.G.R. target. Doctors have been delivering more services, and the services have become ever more complex and, therefore, expensive. But instead of enforcing the mandated cuts, every year Congress has passed a "doc fix," coming up with billions to keep paying physicians the same amount and avert any reductions.
Strangely, despite never complying with the law, Congress has never seen fit to change the formula for calculating the target. Consequently, S.G.R. cuts have accumulated since 2002, to the extent that today the law ostensibly requires that physician payments be cut by 24.4 percent.

Everyone - Democrats and Republicans - agrees that the law is seriously flawed. Since the target level applies to total nationwide physician costs, there is no incentive for individual doctors to be more efficient. And the cuts are indiscriminate: they would hit high-quality, cost-effective doctors just as hard as inefficient free spenders, and underpaid primary-care doctors as much as overpaid specialists.
Physicians desperately want the S.G.R. repealed and replaced so they can charge what they want without the potential of massive cuts hanging over them each year. But according to the Congressional Budget Office, getting rid of it and simply letting payments increase would cost just under a projected $140 billion over 10 years. If Congress were to adhere to its "pay-as-you-go" principle of accounting for every new expenditure, it would have to find that money in either tax hikes or cuts in other programs - both nearly impossible in the current climate.
Enter the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This week, the committee is expected to begin marking up a bill that its subcommittee on health approved last Tuesday. The bill would repeal the S.G.R. formula and replace it with a stable annual 0.5 percent payment increase until 2018. Beginning in 2019, the bill would then link Medicare payments to the quality of care each physician provides, as measured by an enhanced quality reporting system.
Here are the problems. The 0.5 percent increase would put taxpayers on the hook for even more than $140 billion. In addition, that reporting system would duplicate a value-based payment system that was already established by the Affordable Care Act, simply increasing administrative costs. And here is the cherry on top of it all: the bill repeals a cost control without replacing it with anything.
The proposed cure would be worse than the disease. This permanent "doc fix" is not linked to any reform or modernization of how physicians are paid. While the bill does place more value on primary care, which is important, the physician lobby is already mobilizing to remove this one good part of the bill. Overall the bill does nothing to solve the root of Medicare's cost problem. Adopting it would be a huge missed opportunity.
Repealing the S.G.R. is the best leverage the government has with the country's doctors. Physicians seem otherwise not strongly inclined to adopt payment reform or modernize the health care delivery system. But we can give doctors what they want - the end of the S.G.R. - and restrain spending at the same time. We should link the repeal of the law to a timeline that moves Medicare off the inflationary fee-for-service payment system, which is the reason we need a formula to limit spending in the first place.
Health policy experts agree that fee-for-service payment incentivizes quantity over quality. Physicians make more money by ordering more tests, seeing patients more frequently in follow-ups and providing more treatments. The payment system is a key accelerator driving up Medicare costs - and therefore the federal government's deficit.
The only way forward is to adopt alternatives to the fee-for-service system, like bundled payments for treating patients with particular conditions or patient-centered care that is focused on overall health instead of individual procedures. Representatives Allyson Y. Schwartz, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and Joe Heck, Republican of Nevada, have put forward one good proposed reform, which would tie an S.G.R. repeal to a slow reduction in fee-for-service payments to those physicians who do not switch to bundled payments and other payment models. But ideally we would go even further and set a goal for moving 75 percent of Medicare physician payments off fee-for-service completely by 2023.
In fixing this law, we have a tremendous opportunity to re-engineer the perverse incentives that plague our health care system. If we go the route proposed by the House subcommittee, that opportunity will be wasted.

        
A Plan To Fix Cancer Care
        
When the Patient Knows Best
        
The Family Doctor, Minus the M.D.
        
Obama's Insurance Delay Won't Affect Many
        
Million-Anecdote Baby

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX INCREASES (60%) Doctors; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ezekiel J. Emanuel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



873 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Hunting for Luxury, Retail Giant Buys Saks

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD


HIGHLIGHT: Saks Inc. has agreed to sell itself to the Hudson&#8217;s Bay Company for about $2.4 billion in cash, uniting the storied luxury retailer with Lord &#038; Taylor and the Canadian chain Hudson&#8217;s Bay. 

 BODY:
 Updated, 8:49 p.m. | When the real estate scion Richard A. Baker acquired the department store chain Lord & Taylor at the market peak in 2006, retail industry players laughed. Mr. Baker, they snickered, was just the latest money guy who would get clobbered trying to break into the fashion business.
No one is snickering anymore.
On Monday, Mr. Baker's Hudson's Bay Company announced that it had agreed to buy Saks Inc., one of the oldest and most revered names in luxury retailing, for $2.4 billion in cash, uniting it with Lord & Taylor and the Canadian chain Hudson's Bay. 
The acquisition would create a behemoth in the retail world and cap an extraordinary run of deal making by Mr. Baker. The combined company would own 320 locations, 179 of which are full department stores. It had combined revenues of about $7 billion in the 2012 fiscal year.
Mr. Baker is a dapper businessman who, once he bought Lord & Taylor, swore allegiance to that chain's Black Brown 1826 private-label suits. Even with that interest in fashion, though, he has largely avoided the follies that have plagued other investors who have gotten into the retail business. He brought in experienced managers (including a handful formerly of Saks), invested in store makeovers and left most of the merchandising decisions to merchants.
"He is more interested in the financials," said Walter Loeb, a longtime retail analyst.
Under the terms of the deal, the Hudson's Bay Company will pay $16 a share in cash, about 4.5 percent higher than Saks's closing price on Friday and about 30 percent higher than its closing price on May 20, the last day before reports about a possible sale surfaced. In New York Stock Exchange trading on Monday, Saks shares rose 4.18 percent to $15.95.
Mr. Baker prevailed over a number of other Saks suitors. Among those who explored a deal were Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which had floated the idea of injecting money into the chain and then merging it with its rival Neiman Marcus. The Qatar Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth fund of the Middle Eastern emirate, also took a serious look at the company.
Saks drew suitors because it continues to benefit from luxury shoppers who, after closing their wallets during the recession, have come back in force since. Its 2012 sales rose 4.4 percent, to $3.15 billion, and executives say it continues to benefit from foreign tourists, particularly from China, Russia and the Middle East.
While industry experts once questioned whether department stores would stay relevant given competition from the Internet, analysts said Saks's prime locations, like Fifth Avenue in New York, had held up well.
"No tourist wakes up in New York and says: 'You know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to log on to the Internet and shop,' " said Faye Landes, a retail analyst at Cowen.
Mr. Baker described the Fifth Avenue store as having tremendous financial results "in a neighborhood that has some of the highest rents in the world."
But Saks also has a number of mall locations that are thought to be less profitable, and it is trying to build an outlet business with its Off Fifth concept.
Mr. Baker, 47, lives in Greenwich, Conn., where he grew up, the son of the shopping mall developer Robert C. Baker. In 2006, restless in the family business, Mr. Baker dove headlong into the retail trade. He teamed up with his father and two real estate investors, Bill Mack and Lee Neibart, to buy Lord & Taylor for $1.2 billion. A couple of years later, he acquired Hudson's Bay and merged the two into a single business. Last year, he listed the combined company on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Mr. Baker said there was no overlap between Saks and Lord & Taylor, even though their flagship Fifth Avenue locations are just 11 blocks apart.
"Where Lord & Taylor ends is where Saks begins," he said.
That is not entirely true; both carry items from midprice clothing brands like Catherine Malandrino, but while those goods, which generally cost $300 to $500, represent the top of Lord & Taylor's offerings, they are near the bottom of Saks' price range.
The Lord & Taylor shopper might pick up a Marc Jacobs perfume to own a piece of that brand for less than $100, while the Saks shopper might preorder a $4,395 Marc Jacobs python bag instead.
And Lord & Taylor carries middle-America brands like Jessica Simpson shoes and Kim Kardashian perfume that Saks does not, lest its aura of luxury be sullied.
With the acquisition, Mr. Baker says he plans to push the Saks brand into Canada, where there is only one luxury department store chain, Holt Renfrew. "There's certainly room for a little competition up there," Mr. Baker said. Canadian Saks stores will be "on the luxurious side of the U.S. Saks stores," he said.
As in his previous deals for Lord & Taylor and Hudson's, real estate is an important component of the Saks acquisition.
Mr. Baker told analysts on Monday that he planned to pool the valuable property of the three separate chains and form a real-estate investment trust, or a REIT, which receives preferential tax treatment. Then, by selling shares of the REIT to the public, Hudson's can also raise money to help pay down debt.
Other retailers, including the American department store chain Dillard's and the Canadian food retailer Loblaw, have had recent success executing a similar strategy.
Hudson's is just the latest owner of Saks, which was founded in 1867 as a privately held company operating as a division of Gimbel Brothers, the now-defunct department store. Horace Saks and Bernard Gimbel opened the flagship Fifth Avenue store in 1924.
In 1973, British American Tobacco Industries acquired Saks Fifth Avenue when it purchased Gimbel Brothers, and then sold it in 1990 to Investcorp International, a Bahrain-based investment firm. Proffitt's, the Southern department store chain, acquired the company for $2.1 billion in 1998, changed its name to Saks and jettisoned some of its lower-end divisions to focus on luxury. During the recession, though, as shoppers spent less, Saks expanded its cheaper private-label offerings and pushed designers to offer lower-priced options.
Mr. Baker did not specify whether the new company would continue to employ Stephen I. Sadove, who has been chief executive of Saks since 2006. "We don't have a closed deal," Mr. Baker said, "so we haven't had those conversations yet."
As for Mr. Baker, the acquisition also offers a chance for him to upgrade his wardrobe - Saks's men's labels include Armani, Gucci and Ralph Lauren Black Label.
"I'm very fond of our Black Brown," he said. "But I definitely have more shopping options going forward."

        
Owner of Hudson's Bay Explores a Deal to Buy Saks
        
Lord & Taylor Parent Moves Toward an I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%) Baker, Richard A; Hudson's Bay Co; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Saks Inc; Shopping and Retail; Mergers & Acquisitions; Real Estate; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (94%); SAKS INC (85%); KKR & CO LP (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Hudson&#039;s Bay Co; Saks Inc

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (94%); SKS (NYSE) (85%); KKR (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%)

PERSON: Baker, Richard A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); MIDDLE EAST (67%); QATAR (67%); CHINA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



874 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: The New Mideast Talks: Much Risk, Little Hope, but Still We Must Try

BYLINE: By AARON DAVID MILLER. 
Aaron David Miller, a former adviser and negotiator for the State Department, is a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and the author of ''The Much Too Promised Land: America's Elusive Search for Arab-Israeli Peace.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- THE success of Secretary of State John Kerry in leading Israelis and Palestinians to resume negotiations is presenting the United States with an immense challenge.
Right now, there's almost no chance of achieving a conflict-ending agreement; yet by pressing the Israelis and Palestinians back toward the table, the United States has assumed responsibility for producing one.
Above all, the Americans now need to lower expectations and find a realistic focus for the talks. That means pushing for an agreement on borders and security first, without precluding discussion of Jerusalem and refugees too. 
Many have questioned why Mr. Kerry is focusing on the Israeli-Palestinian issue, while Syria is embroiled in civil war, Egypt is in political crisis, and Iran is moving to develop a nuclear weapons capacity. Negotiating this conflict first hardly seems the key to Middle East stability.
But the Israeli-Palestinian problem is a witches' brew and always dynamic. A conflict-ending accord may not be possible now, but without a credible negotiation to manage the situation, it will only deteriorate further.
For Israel, the absence of serious negotiations would increase its isolation and rule out hope for a solution that could secure its values as a democratic Jewish state. Palestinians would grow even more polarized and aggrieved; they would find ways to challenge the occupation, emboldening Hamas and other Islamists to attack Israel with increasingly powerful weapons.
And an unresolved Palestinian issue would over time undermine Egypt's and Jordan's treaties with Israel, regardless of whether Islamists or secularists hold power in Cairo and Amman. It would also continue to drag down our credibility in the Arab world.
Talking for talking's sake is not what I am proposing. That would make matters only worse. But a serious process toward achievable goals could build trust and reduce tensions.
Where to start? Mr. Kerry was right to focus on prisoner releases, like the one Israel announced over the weekend. In addition, there might be agreements by the Israelis to effectively freeze new settlements and by the Palestinians to refrain from United Nations action or taking Israel to the International Criminal Court, along with an end of incitement to hatred in the Palestinian media. Those can buy time and political cover for both sides to identify larger shared interests to negotiate about, including enhancing Israeli-Palestinian security cooperation and allowing Palestinians to expand their economic projects in Area C of the West Bank, which is under Israel's control.
Instead of chasing the quixotic endgame of a deal on issues of identity like Jerusalem and refugees, the broad theme of the negotiations should be about the territorial ones -- land and security. Specifically the focus should be on defining a border for a Palestinian state. Even under this narrower definition, success will be excruciatingly difficult.
Paradoxically, Mr. Kerry's personal success in getting negotiations going, and his stake in their success, now open him to the serious possibility of failure. The talks are starting in Washington, not in the region; he has designated himself the only spokesman for the very delicate start-up process, not the parties, and at least for now neither side is prepared to discuss publicly -- or convey directly to each other -- the parameters that will guide the negotiations. Nobody appears to have a stake in the talks except the United States, and Mr. Kerry.
Yet ownership is critical. Of the three historic breakthroughs in Arab-Israeli peacemaking, all were initiated by the parties themselves: secret Israeli-Egyptian contacts in 1977 preceded Anwar el-Sadat's trip to Jerusalem and offered Jimmy Carter a chance to broker an agreement; quiet negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, facilitated by Norway, produced the Oslo breakthrough in 1993; years of discreet contacts between Israel and Jordan led to their peace treaty in 1994. In each instance, the United States contributed -- at times decisively -- but only after the parties themselves had made very difficult choices.
There are three core challenges as the latest talks begin.
First, the endgame. A conflict-ending accord that resolves the core issues -- borders, Jerusalem, security, refugees and recognition of Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people -- and that also adjudicates all claims and forswears further ones seems almost unimaginable. The two sides don't yet share a common concept for reaching it.
Second, the current leaders. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, needs an agreement on all the big issues, while the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, could not sign one and survive politically. The gaps between them are huge, the mistrust deep, the politics on both sides ferocious. The Palestinian public is wary of talks with Israel and reluctant to depart from its consensus stands on Jerusalem and refugees; further, Mr. Abbas's Fatah-led government shares control over guns, supporters and negotiating authority with the more militant Hamas. For his part, Mr. Netanyahu and his current government are not in full agreement about how to resolve final borders, Jerusalem and refugees in ways that meet Palestinian needs. Mr. Netanyahu's own ideology, suspicion of the Arabs and lack of belief in the Palestinian capacity to deliver would constrain him from offering concessions. He is focused on Iran, and the last thing he wants is a political crisis that would threaten his government.
Third, this is still very much Mr. Kerry's process. President Obama has yet to take ownership of it, and at some point, he will have to decide how much political capital he wants to spend on it. A deal on the big issues will not be possible without him playing a major role, perhaps at a high-risk summit meeting of leaders. And this will require him to press both sides for more give. Should Mr. Kerry bring matters to a decision point where key bridging proposals need to be advanced, there will have to be some distance between the American and Israeli positions, and Mr. Obama will have some tough choices to make.
Mr. Kerry is hoping that direct talks will build confidence and create enough trust for Israelis and Palestinians to feel that they have a stake in the process's succeeding when so many others have failed. Perhaps he can eventually get the two sides to define border and security arrangements for a provisional Palestinian state, discussing but not trying to decide the tougher identity issues like Jerusalem along the way.
The odds against success are very long. Still, Mr. Kerry has put down a bet worth making. Without it, matters will only get worse for the interests of Americans, the Middle East, Israelis and Palestinians alike.
Indeed, the only alternative to serious diplomacy now is a surrender to the forces of history and the despair, deterioration and protracted conflict they are certain to bring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HAMAS (78%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (71%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



875 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Judges Weigh Exclusion of Jurors Because They're Gay

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Last month's Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage were major gay rights victories. But countless questions about the legal rights of gay men and lesbians remain.
Here's one: May gays be excluded from juries on account of their sexual orientation? The federal appeals court in California will soon decide the issue, which turns out to be surprisingly knotty.
It arose at the 2011 trial of an antitrust fight between two giant drug companies. After a potential juror appeared to reveal that he was gay, a lawyer for Abbott Laboratories used a peremptory strike -- one that does not require a reason -- to eliminate him from the jury pool. 
An opposing lawyer objected, saying the juror ''is or appears to be, could be, homosexual.''
That mattered, the lawyer said, because ''the litigation involves AIDS medications'' and ''the incidence of AIDS in the homosexual community is well known, particularly gay men.''
In legal terms, the lawyer had just tried to raise a Batson challenge, named after a 1986 Supreme Court decision, Batson v. Kentucky. That decision recognized an exception to the general rule that peremptory challenges are completely discretionary. Race, the court said, cannot be the reason.
Eight years later, the court said that gender cannot be the reason, either. But it has never addressed sexual orientation.
At the antitrust trial, in SmithKline Beecham Corporation v. Abbott Laboratories, things quickly got confusing, with the judge uncertain about the law and the Abbott Laboratories lawyer missing an opportunity to protect his client.
''I don't know that, number one, Batson applies in civil,'' said Judge Claudia Wilken of Federal District Court in Oakland, Calif. But Batson does apply in both civil litigations and criminal prosecutions.
''Number two,'' she went on, now on firmer ground, ''whether Batson ever applies to sexual orientation.''
''Number three,'' she said, ''there is no way for us to know who is gay and who isn't here, unless someone happens to say something.''
Nonetheless, she offered the Abbott Laboratories lawyer, Jeffrey I. Weinberger, a chance to offer a neutral reason for his peremptory strike. ''Or if you don't want to,'' she said, ''you can stand on my first three reasons.''
Mr. Weinberger took the judge up on her offer. ''I will stand on the first three at this point,'' he said, adding of the juror: ''I have no idea whether he is gay or not.''
Declining to give a reason was probably a tactical error. It takes very little to respond to a Batson objection. Almost anything will do.
The reason does not have to be, the Supreme Court has said, ''persuasive, or even plausible.'' One reason the court found sufficient: a prosecutor said he did not care for a potential juror's ''long curly hair'' and ''mustache and a goatee-type beard.''
Mr. Weinberger did not lack other explanations for striking the seemingly gay potential juror. He could have cited the juror's work as a computer technician at the same federal appeals court that will decide whether his exclusion was proper, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Or that the juror had been close to someone who had H.I.V.
But what Mr. Weinberger did say, that he had no idea whether the juror was gay, ran counter to what the juror had said. The juror, a man, said of ''my partner'' that ''he's retired,'' that ''he doesn't have to work'' and that ''he just has studied economics and does investments.''
This juror's sexual orientation seems tolerably clear. But that will not always be the case without intrusive questioning. Abbott Laboratories told the Ninth Circuit that allowing challenges based on sexual orientation ''would present formidable practical problems.''
That sounds right. But California law has barred peremptory challenges based on sexual orientation in state courts for more than a decade, and the system seems to work.
Excluding gay men and lesbians from jury service, a state appeals court explained, ''would send an intolerable message.'' At the same time, the court said, potential jurors should not be questioned about their sexual orientations.
''If it comes out somehow,'' Judge William W. Bedsworth wrote for the court, ''the parties will doubtless factor it into their jury selection process, just as they factor in occupation, education, body language and whether the juror resembles their stupid Uncle Cletus.''
A ruling that gay people may not be excluded from juries in federal court would be a powerful symbolic step. But it would probably have little practical effect given how easy it is for a lawyer to offer a neutral-sounding reason.
Meaningful changes to the jury selection process would require the solution proposed by Justice Thurgood Marshall in a concurrence in Batson itself.
''The decision today will not end the racial discrimination that peremptories inject into the jury selection process,'' Justice Marshall wrote. ''That goal can be accomplished only by eliminating peremptory challenges entirely.''
Doing away with peremptory challenges would still allow lawyers to object to potential jurors for cause. But lawyers would have to persuade a judge that the potential juror would not be able to weigh the evidence in a case fairly and impartially.
In a 2005 concurrence, Justice Stephen G. Breyer appeared to endorse Justice Marshall's view, saying that ''peremptory challenges seem increasingly anomalous in our judicial system.'' He noted that England had eliminated peremptory challenges but ''continues to administer fair trials based largely on random jury selection.''
''I believe it necessary,'' Justice Breyer wrote, ''to reconsider Batson's test and the peremptory challenge system as a whole.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (99%); JURY TRIALS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); APPEALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); ANTIVIRALS (70%)

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (94%); SMITHKLINE BEECHAM CORP (66%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (94%); ABT (NYSE) (94%); ABT (LSE) (94%); ABL (FRA) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



876 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: At the 11th Hour, a Languid Congress

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional lawmakers will straggle into the Capitol this week for the last legislative days before their long summer recess, crunch time in past Congresses but a sleepy time for the underachieving 113th.
The last week before the August recess is usually full of late nights, last-minute deal-making and achievements to take home to constituents. This week, the House will not even show up until Tuesday evening.
The most pressing business is student loans. Congress is likely to give final approval to legislation that ties student loan interest rates to the market-set rate of Treasury bonds, lowering interest rates at least in the short term. 
But the House's marquee moment before adjourning until Sept. 9 will come on Friday with its 40th vote to cripple President Obama's health care law. House members preparing their vacation plans have been assured that the last vote will be no later than 3 p.m.
In the Senate, a glimmer of hope has appeared for a bipartisan deal to end the automatic across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration and shift some of those savings to entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security. But even optimistic negotiators do not suggest that an agreement between Senate Republicans and the White House is in reach before the break.
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said that meetings on Capitol Hill between a small group of Senate Republicans and Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff, gave reason for optimism, but that no agreement was in sight.
''There's been enough spade work where during Thursday's meeting, things came into much more focus,'' he said.
Speaker John A. Boehner said this month that the 113th Congress should not be judged by the number of laws it passed, but by the number of laws it repealed. But Congresses past -- both Republican- and Democratic-controlled -- have made substantive achievements in the week before the summer break.
Last year, the Senate moved toward passage of a major cybersecurity bill and extended expiring middle-class tax cuts. The House approved agriculture disaster assistance on Aug. 2, a day after its own tax cut extension bill passed -- a prelude to the deal in January that brought the nation back from the ''fiscal cliff,'' when all of the Bush-era tax cuts were set to expire.
In 2011, with the government staring at its first debt default, Congress approved the Budget Control Act on Aug. 2, which capped discretionary spending for a decade and empowered a special committee to find a broader deficit reduction deal or set off the automatic sequestration cuts now in force.
The Senate confirmed Robert S. Mueller III to a new term as director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The House approved compensation for 9/11 rescue workers suffering from health effects.
In 2010, the Senate confirmed Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court on Aug. 5, the same day it gave final passage to a major Federal Aviation Administration and air-traffic control overhaul. Earlier that week, the Senate made progress on a small-business lending program that would become law in September.
In 2009, Congress passed ''Cash for Clunkers,'' the law that subsidized the purchase of cars and trucks; replenished the highway trust fund; and confirmed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court.
It is not as if there is no work to do this year. None of Congress's 12 annual spending bills have reached Mr. Obama's desk, and with the House and the Senate far apart on total spending levels, a government shutdown is possible on Oct. 1, when the current spending law expires.
Once Congress returns on Sept. 9, lawmakers will have just nine legislative days until the current fiscal year ends and large swaths of the government would be forced to close.
By early November, Congress must raise the government's statutory borrowing limit or risk a federal debt default.
House and Senate negotiators have yet to reach agreements on a farm bill, a budget, an immigration law overhaul, or an annual defense policy law. The House has yet to pass legislation reauthorizing the food stamp program after supplemental nutrition assistance was stripped from the House's version of the farm bill this month.
About a half-dozen Senate Republicans met with Mr. McDonough last week hoping for a deal -- grand or small -- on future spending. The group appears to be closing in on a modest agreement to replace deep and automatic cuts to defense and domestic programs at Congress's annual funding discretion with more subtle changes to entitlement -- or ''mandatory'' -- programs.
''One of the more sensible things the Senate could do would be to take those discretionary cuts and replace them with mandatory savings,'' Mr. Corker said, declining to offer any details about the cuts.
But some basic decisions need to be made, starting with whether to try again for a broader deal to tackle deficit spending long term with significant changes to entitlement programs and more tax revenue.
''There's been enough back-and-forth, sounding each other out, that there's enough information to make some decisions: Is it worth doing something different on sequester? I think there's appetite for that on both sides. Is it worth doing something bigger? I don't know at this point,'' said Mr. Corker, suggesting that lawmakers and the White House would have a better sense of direction by the end of this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); BONDS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); MEDICARE (66%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (66%)

PERSON: ROBERT MUELLER (64%); BOB CORKER (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



877 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Talks Begin On Mideast, To Doubts On All Sides

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ISABEL KERSHNER; Michael R. Gordon reported from Washington, and Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For all of the intricacies of issues like the shape of future borders, security arrangements and the status of Jerusalem, the Middle East peace talks that resumed Monday night are dominated by two simple questions: If it took Secretary of State John Kerry countless phone calls and six trips to the Middle East just to get Israeli and Palestinian officials to the negotiating table, how will it be possible to achieve a comprehensive peace agreement? And what will happen if his herculean negotiating efforts fall short?
In a brief appearance at the State Department on Monday, Mr. Kerry said his goal was to pursue ''reasonable compromises'' of some of the Middle East's most intractable issues.
''I know the negotiations are going to be tough, but I also know that the consequences of not trying could be worse,'' he said. 
In making the revival of the Middle East talks his top priority, Mr. Kerry is not only challenging the status quo in the region but also taking on the conventional wisdom in much of the American foreign policy establishment.
The prevailing narrative among the pundits, including more than a few experienced Middle East hands, is that while the Israelis and Palestinians may have sent their negotiators to Washington to placate Mr. Kerry, neither side appears remotely prepared to make the hard calls needed to cement a lasting peace.
Some experts argue that it may be risky even to try.
''The existence of talks can have a calming effect while they continue, and if they continue for several months can get us through the U.N. General Assembly without bitter Israeli-Palestinian confrontations,'' said Elliott Abrams, who was a senior official on President George W. Bush's National Security Council.
''But I see no realistic possibility that a final status agreement can be reached now,'' Mr. Abrams said. ''I just hope there are two State Department teams: one to work on the talks, and the other to start planning for what to do when they fail. We should not only try to avoid a crash landing, but see if the talks can be used to advance Israeli-Palestinian economic and security cooperation.''
In recent weeks, Mr. Kerry and his aides have outlined several basic arguments for why his efforts might bear fruit. Perhaps the most important one, which Mr. Kerry advanced almost the moment he was picked for the State Department post, is that the United States does not have the luxury of staying on the sidelines.
With the Palestinians poised to take their claim for statehood to the International Criminal Court and United Nations bodies, American officials say the two sides were facing a downward spiral in which the Israelis would respond by cutting off financing to the Palestinian territories and European nations might curtail their investment in Israel, further isolating the Israelis.
Another argument Mr. Kerry has used is that diplomatic progress would foster as much as $4 billion in private sector investment in the Palestinian economy, a portion of which would take effect in the near term.
He has also reasoned that he can make headway by taking a new look at Israel's security requirements and the arrangements to safeguard them. John R. Allen, the retired general who used to lead the Afghan campaign, has been working to define what those requirements would be in any West Bank territory that is handed back to the Palestinians.
Mr. Kerry extracted a commitment that the two sides would give the talks at least nine months, which provides some time to explore ideas without fears of a walkout.
One argument that Mr. Kerry and his team have been careful not to make publicly, but that Arab, Israeli and American officials have begun to speculate about, is that something less than a comprehensive settlement might be achievable.
A guiding principle of final status talks so far -- the Camp David summit meeting and Taba talks in 2000 and 2001, the Annapolis process from 2007 to 2008, and the brief round of discussions in 2010 between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority -- has been that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed upon, that any deal reached must mean the end of the conflict and the end of claims by either side.
Many experts now say this guiding principle ought to be changed, given the deep lack of trust between the two sides, the political constraints both are under and the substantive gaps in their positions.
''They have got to get rid of this mantra,'' said Yossi Alpher, a strategic analyst who has been involved in the Israeli-Palestinian dialogue for years. ''If nothing is agreed until everything is agreed,'' he said, ''they will agree on nothing.''
Mr. Alpher said that experience has shown it is easier to narrow the gaps on practical, post-1967 issues like borders, settlements, security and sovereignty than on issues that cut to the core narratives of each side, like the Palestinian demand for the right of return for refugees of the 1948 war and their descendants and control over holy places in hotly contested areas of Jerusalem.
While the talks are initially expected to focus on procedural issues, like the location, schedule and format of negotiating sessions, they are already beginning to take on a last-ditch quality.
One area Mr. Kerry and his critics appear to agree on is that having made Middle East peacemaking his top priority, the secretary of state has raised the stakes so much that if this effort collapses, it will be a long time before anybody tries again.
''Many people will conclude that there is no chance for a two-state solution,'' said Michael Herzog, an Israeli fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''That could be very dangerous.'' Mr. Herzog, a retired brigadier general who has participated in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process since 1993, said the fact that the sides were going into the negotiations without agreed-upon parameters indicated that it was going to be an ''uphill struggle.''
He added, ''I, like many others, am skeptical, but I do believe it is very important that we try.''
Hussein Agha, a senior associate member of St. Antony's College at Oxford University, said that one reason to hope this time might be different is that ''there are two leaders who find themselves in a unique position.''
Mr. Abbas, he said, is ''the last Palestinian national leader who will be able to weave together the totality of the Palestinian people.'' On the Israeli side, Mr. Agha said, Mr. Netanyahu is uniquely placed to be able to bring along constituencies from the right-of-center, the center and the left to support a deal.
''One thing is clear to me,'' Mr. Agha said. ''If it is not done now, it will not be done for a long, long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry, left, on Monday with Martin S. Indyk, a former ambassador to Israel, whom he named to represent the United States in the new round of talks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) MIDDLE EAST (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



878 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Strengthens Warnings on Anti-Malaria Drug

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration announced on Monday that a commonly used anti-malaria drug must carry the so-called black box warning on its label because of the danger that the drug could cause serious neurological and psychiatric side effects, some of which can become permanent. 
The drug, mefloquine hydrochloride -- better known by its brand name, Lariam -- has long been known to cause side effects that include ringing in the ears, depression and hallucinations. The announcement on Monday clarified that some of the symptoms, like dizziness and loss of balance, could become permanent. And some of the psychiatric symptoms, the agency said, could persist for months or even years after a patient ceases taking the drug. A black box warning is reserved for drugs whose side effects are considered the most severe. The agency warned patients and caregivers to be alert for these side effects and to stop use of the drug if a patient develops neurological or psychiatric symptoms.
Mefloquine was developed by the United States Army, and it entered the commercial market in 1989. Roche, the brand-name manufacturer, no longer sells Lariam in the United States, but generic versions are available.
For years, the drug was favored by travelers not only because of its effectiveness but also because it could be taken once a week, rather than once a day, said Dr. David O. Freedman, director of the travelers' clinic at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. As warnings on its label steadily increased in severity over the last decade, Dr. Freedman said that his clinic had shifted to other drugs. Ten to 20 percent of his patients traveling to malaria-prone areas now receive a mefloquine prescription, he said.
Mefloquine is the third-most-prescribed anti-malaria drug in the United States, with about 119,000 prescriptions being written for the drug from January of this year through June, according to the research firm IMS Health. Nearly 2.4 million prescriptions were written for the most common anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, during the same period.
The drug has taken on a dark mythology among many travelers, who have long traded stories about the vivid dreams or strange hallucinations they experienced while taking Lariam. It has also been implicated in cases of violence among military personnel, although others have noted that serious side effects are rare.
The drug's side effects may play a role in the sentencing trial next month of Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, who pleaded guilty in June to killing 16 Afghan civilians in 2012.
John Henry Browne, Sergeant Bales's lawyer, said that his client had been given mefloquine on previous deployments, but that he had no confirmation that the soldier was given it on his most recent trip to Afghanistan. Fellow soldiers have testified that Sergeant Bales had been drinking that night. And, in June, Sergeant Bales admitted that he illegally used steroids, which may also have affected his behavior.
''The new F.D.A. report raises new questions of long-term and permanent side effects,'' Mr. Browne said in an e-mail message Monday. ''This is a fast-developing issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTI-INFECTIVES (93%); MALARIA (91%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (78%); STEROIDS (73%); ARMIES (69%); LAWYERS (63%); SENTENCING (60%); HOMICIDE (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (50%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



879 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Is Expected, But It's Seen As Fleeting

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
It can only get better from here -- or at least that's what economists hope.
New data from the government due out Wednesday is expected to show that the economy came close to stalling during the spring quarter, which ran from April through June. But many experts say the latest slowdown is likely to be temporary. Buoyed by a healthier housing sector, a surging stock market and resilient consumer spending, they say, economic activity should rebound in the second half of 2013 and accelerate into 2014.
''We've been saying for some time that second-quarter growth would be the weak spot this year,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS. ''This is the spring swoon. But I wouldn't panic -- there is a very specific reason for it, and it will start to wear off.'' 
''Housing has been sizzling and consumers are spending at a decent pace,'' he added. ''Businesses have held back so far, but will begin to get on board.''
But haven't we heard that one before? The latest swoon looks a lot like the previous pauses that have prevented the economy from gaining much momentum since the recession ended in 2009.
Experts estimate that the economy grew at an annual rate of under 1 percent in the second quarter, half the already tepid pace of growth in the first quarter of 2013. Much of that weakness stems from the tax increases and automatic cuts in government spending that went into effect earlier this year, headwinds that should gradually ease in the quarters to come unless Washington makes things worse by cutting spending further or Congress and the White House send markets into a swoon by failing to agree on a painless way to raise the nation's debt ceiling.
Federal Reserve policy makers, who are set to meet on Tuesday and Wednesday, will be closely analyzing these crosscurrents. The central bank has been purchasing $85 billion a month in Treasury bonds and government-backed mortgages -- a program which the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has hinted will be slowly wound down later this year if the economy proves strong enough.
The Fed is not expected to signal a change in direction when it issues its latest statement early Wednesday afternoon. The data on economic growth due out Wednesday morning, however, as well as the latest figures on employment that will be released by the Labor Department on Friday, could help determine whether the Fed begins tapering back as early as September or instead waits until December or even longer.
''The Fed will have a lot of information,'' said Michelle Meyer, senior United States economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. ''Our baseline scenario is that December is marginally more likely than September, but it is a very close call.''
Wall Street is intensely focused on when the Fed will begin easing back, and traders will be paying close attention to any change in the language of the Fed's statement. In May and June, stocks fell after Mr. Bernanke seemed to suggest the tapering could begin soon.
Since then, though, Wall Street has bounced back and Mr. Bernanke emphasized in testimony before Congress earlier this month that the central bank was committed to bolstering the economy, easing fears of an abrupt tapering. In fact, he highlighted the risk that ''tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters by more than we currently expect.''
Other questions are looming, too. Besides the issue of whether businesses will start investing at a faster pace, the recent rise in mortgage rates has some observers worried that the housing market could cool. The National Association of Realtors reported on Monday that its index for pending home sales dropped 0.4 percent in June, a sign buyers may be getting more cautious as borrowing costs increase.
More clues about the health of the housing sector will come on Tuesday, with the release of the latest figures in the S.& P./Case-Shiller index for home prices. Economists are expecting the index for May to post a 12.3 percent gain over the same month a year earlier, a reflection of what has been a strengthening housing market in many parts of the country. The Conference Board is also scheduled to report its latest reading on consumer confidence on Tuesday.
Experts who are fairly optimistic in the long-term, like Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, caution that Wednesday's numbers on overall economic performance could look rather bleak.
''The second quarter was horrible, no matter how you slice it,'' he said. ''The crunch in government spending is holding back growth and it doesn't just appear in the government component. It feeds pretty much into everything.''
Mr. Shepherdson is actually a bit more pessimistic about the current situation than many of his peers -- he says he believes the economy grew at only 0.5 to 0.6 percent in the second quarter -- but he emphasized that Wednesday's report on gross domestic product was something of a wild card.
Inventory changes are hard to predict, as is the full impact of the cutbacks in Washington.
''We could be anywhere from minus 0.5 percent to plus 1.5 percent,'' he said. ''I wouldn't be surprised if we saw a negative number.''
Even as economists on Wall Street, at the Federal Reserve and elsewhere study the data for the second quarter, government statisticians at the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis will also be undertaking a comprehensive revision of how they measure the economy itself.
The bureau will now count expenditures on research and development as akin to more traditional business investment, as well as make adjustments for the value of artistic property like movies and books. Pension plans will also be measured differently. It is the first revision of its kind since July 2009.
All together, these changes will affect reports of economic activity going back decades and are expected to increase the estimated size of the American economy by roughly $400 billion. That may be less than 3 percent of the nation's $16 trillion in annual output, but it's larger than the entire economy of dozens of countries.
And while no one will notice the difference in their own lives, in the world of economics, the bureau's revision is a major event. ''For numbers geeks like myself,'' Mr. Behravesh said, ''these changes are anticipated with great interest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader on the New York Stock Exchange floor last week. Economic growth is expected to pick up in the year's second half. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); BONDS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



880 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Aspen Music Festival Embarks on New Era

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
ASPEN, Colo. -- Give the Aspen Music Festival and School full points for resilience. In 2010 the institution was just emerging from several years of turmoil. Alan Fletcher, its president and chief executive (and a composer represented in this season's programming), had been fired and rehired amid faculty uprisings and administrative disputes. Its board chairman had been voted out. The conductor David Zinman, its music director and a founder of its American Academy of Conducting, had left in a serious huff.
Today, insofar as an outsider could quickly determine over the weekend, peace seems to reign.
And as a potent symbol of the dawning of a new era, the school this year unveiled a campus wildly transformed. Two ramshackle sheds used for rehearsals and teaching have been replaced on more or less the same footprints by gleaming, handsome and acoustically correct buildings. Sixty-eight practice rooms have been added. 
Another new building, with studios for private instruction, is in the final stages of construction. And more is to come: an orchestral rehearsal hall and an administration building with a cafeteria.
The phase of construction already completed, the first of three, represents about 60 percent of a $65 million project to be completed in 2016, carried out in partnership with the Aspen Country Day School. The school, which occupies the campus during the academic year, is shouldering $30 million of the cost.
Though changes were made with sensitivity to the natural surroundings -- like the stylized mountain designs on the building facades and the installation of a small island refuge in one of the ponds to keep coyotes and foxes from feasting on ducks -- there is no question that some of the campus's rustic charm and sense of roughing it is being lost. (Face it: Not that much of the pioneering spirit survives in the rest of ultrachic Aspen, either.) But it is hard to gainsay the musical and educational values advanced by the project.
Also representing the new era is the conductor Robert Spano, who became music director of the festival and school and director of the conducting academy last year. Mr. Spano, a dynamic force well remembered by New Yorkers from his days leading the Brooklyn Philharmonic, is also the music director of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra.
The festival theme this summer is ''Conscience and Beauty,'' though that was less a template in the making of programs, Mr. Spano said in an interview, than a lens through which to view them.
This year's programming also offers 25 works by Benjamin Britten in honor of his centenary.
The centerpiece of the season came on Saturday evening: a superb semi-staged version of Britten's great opera ''Peter Grimes'' in the music tent, with the Aspen Festival Orchestra and the Colorado Symphony Orchestra Chorus, conducted by Mr. Spano. The powerful production, by Edward Berkeley, the director of the Aspen Opera Theater Center, fell little short of an actual staging in its conception and impact.
A large fishing net hanging over the stage and a few salty props economically evoked the seaside. The characters (except the chorus, representing the townsfolk) wore costumes by Toni Wright, and the lighting, by Kevin Kirkpatrick, proved effective right down to the lightning effects, which seemed for all the world to be coming from outside the tent on that rainy night.
The large cast was admirable across the board. The burly tenor Anthony Dean Griffey seemed actually to be Grimes: a slightly addled fisherman in a gossipy village suspected of murdering one young apprentice and then another, who sees too much in his visions and comprehends too little of reality.
Also particularly moving were the soprano Susanna Phillips as the widowed schoolteacher, Ellen, and the baritone Brian Mulligan as the old sea captain, Balstrode, among the few who show a modicum of compassion for Grimes. The rich-toned contralto Meredith Arwady created a sympathetic character and provided most of the work's slender comic relief as Auntie, the publican and madam.
The orchestra, mingling professional principal players with students, was excellent. The chorus, well trained by its director, Duain Wolfe, was also impressive.
Mr. Spano conducted with a sure hand, luxuriating in the orchestral sea interludes, pacing the work cannily, imparting energy and sustaining the drama throughout.
Britten appeared in two other weekend programs in the tent. On Friday evening Tomas Netopil conducted the Aspen Chamber Symphony, another mix of professionals and students, in ''Young Apollo,'' an engaging early work for piano and strings, which Britten quickly withdrew but which turned up after his death. Lise de la Salle played the exuberant piano flourishes with flair and was also the fine soloist in Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 23 in A.
Mahler's Fourth Symphony, which completed the program, suffered from imbalances, including French horns that blared almost throughout, and from an apparent miscasting. Sasha Cooke sang the song of the finale beautifully, but the weight of her mezzo-soprano voice in a part written for soprano pulled the ethereal arcs of melody referring to ''heavenly life'' earthward.
On Sunday afternoon Hugh Wolff conducted the all-student Aspen Philharmonic Orchestra in Britten's Cello Symphony (Op. 68), a work that can sound murky at times, and did here. The cello soloist was David Finckel, who recently left the Emerson String Quartet and -- with his wife, the pianist Wu Han -- established an annual chamber music program at the school this summer. Mr. Finckel got around the notes well enough but would have benefited from a bigger sound in a work written for the powerhouse Mstislav Rostropovich.
Mr. Wolff and his young charges closed the concert with a bang-up performance of Shostakovich's Symphony No. 6. The Presto finale, with the young players reveling in the thrill of collective virtuosity, was sheer joy.
On Saturday morning the festival presented one of its always entertaining opera-scenes master classes in the historic Wheeler Opera House, featuring talented young singers from the opera theater and conductors from the academy. The British early-music specialist Nicholas McGegan, who presided over the class with Mr. Berkeley, the director, trod dangerous ground when he noted that Blöndchen, in Mozart's ''Entführung aus dem Serail'' (''Abduction From the Seraglio''), ''like a good English lady, won't stop talking.''
He was on firmer footing in praising the gorgeous Wheeler as an ideal house for Mozart. ''Enjoy it,'' he told a quartet of students, assuring them that even the quietest pianissimos would register. ''It will never get better than this in terms of a space to play.''
Also heard, on Thursday evening, was a piano recital in the Harris Concert Hall by Anton Nel, a favorite of the festival. More on that another day.
The Aspen Music Festival runs through Aug. 18 in Colorado; (970) 925-9042, aspenmusicfestival.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Britten's opera ''Peter Grimes,'' on Saturday, was a highlight of the Aspen Music Festival. (C1)
 A celebration of Benjamin Britten's centenary at the Aspen Music Festival featured a semi-staged version of ''Peter Grimes.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); OPERA (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



881 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Tracing Germs Through the Aisles

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
Twice a month for a year, Lance Price, a microbiologist at George Washington University, sent his researchers out to buy every brand of chicken, turkey and pork on sale in each of the major grocery stores in Flagstaff, Ariz. As scientists pushed carts heaped with meat through the aisles, curious shoppers sometimes asked if they were on the Atkins diet.
In fact, Professor Price and his team are trying to answer worrisome questions about the spread of antibiotic-resistant germs to people from animals raised on industrial farms. Specifically, they are trying to figure out how many people in one American city are getting urinary infections from meat from the grocery store.
Professor Price describes himself as something of a hoarder. His own freezer is packed with a hodgepodge of samples swabbed from people's sinuses and inner ears, and even water from a hookah pipe. But the thousands of containers of broth from the meat collected in Flagstaff, where his nonprofit research institute is based, are all neatly packed into freezers there, marked with bar codes to identify them. 
He is now using the power of genetic sequencing in an ambitious attempt to precisely match germs in the meat with those in women with urinary infections. One recent day, he was down on his hands and knees in his university office in Washington, studying a family tree of germs from some of the meat samples, a printout of more than 25 pages that unfurled like a roll of paper towels. Its lines and numbers offered early clues to Professor Price's central question: How many women in Flagstaff get urinary infections from grocery store meat? He expects preliminary answers this fall.
Researchers have been warning for years that antibiotics -- miracle drugs that changed the course of human health in the 20th century -- are losing their power. Some warn that if the trend isn't halted, there could be a return to the time before antibiotics when people died from ordinary infections and children did not survive strep throat. Currently, drug resistant bacteria cause about 100,000 deaths a year, but mostly among patients with weakened immune systems, children and the elderly.
There is broad consensus that overuse of antibiotics has caused growing resistance to the medicines. Many scientists say evidence is mounting that heavy use of antibiotics to promote faster growth in farm animals is a major culprit, creating a reservoir of drug resistant bugs that are finding their way into communities. More than 70 percent of all the antibiotics used in the United States are given to animals.
Agribusiness groups disagree and say the main problem is overuse of antibiotic treatments for people. Bugs rarely migrate from animals to people, and even when they do, the risk they pose to human health is negligible, the industry contends.
Scientists say genetic sequencing will bring greater certainty to the debate. They will be able to trace germs in people to their origins, be it from a farm animal or other patients in a hospital. Representative Louise Slaughter, a Democrat from New York who has pushed for legislation to control antibiotic use on farms, said such evidence would be the ''smoking gun'' that would settle the issue.
Professor Price is seeking to quantify how extensively drug-resistant bugs in animals are infecting people. He is trying to do that by analyzing the full genetic makeup of germs collected from both grocery store meat and people in Flagstaff last year. The plummeting cost of genomic sequencing has made his research possible.
He is comparing the genetic sequences of E. coli germs resistant to multiple antibiotics found in the meat samples to the ones that have caused urinary tract infections in people (mostly women).
Urinary infections were chosen because they are so common. American women get more than eight million of them a year. In rare cases the infections enter the bloodstream and are fatal.
Resistant bacteria in meat are believed to cause only a fraction of such infections, but even that would account for infections in several hundred thousand people annually. The E. coli germ that Professor Price has chosen can be deadly, and is made even more dangerous by its tendency to resist antibiotics.
The infection happens when meat containing the germ is eaten, grows in the gut, and then is introduced into the urethra. Dr. Price said the germ could cause infection in other ways, such as through a cut while slicing raw meat. The bugs are promiscuous, so once they get into people, they can mutate and travel more easily among people. A new strain of the antibiotic-resistant bug MRSA, for example, was first detected in people in Holland in 2003, and now represents 40 percent of the MRSA infections in humans in that country, according to Jan Kluytmans, a Dutch researcher. That same strain was common in pigs on farms before it was found in people, scientists say. Dr. Price, 44, began his career testing anthrax for resistance to the Cipro antibiotic for biodefense research in the 1990s. His interest in public health led him to antibiotic resistance in the early 2000s. It seemed like a less theoretical threat.
First line antibiotics were no longer curing basic infections, and doctors were concerned. ''I thought, 'Wow this is so obviously crazy, I have to do something about this,' '' he said. He has done his research on antibiotics at a nonprofit founded in 2002, the Translational Genomics Research Institute, in Phoenix. His lab in Flagstaff, an affiliate, is financed mostly by federal sources, including the National Institutes of Health and the Defense Department.
Dr. Price, trained in epidemiology and microbiology, has been sounding the alarm about antibiotic resistance for a number of years. He recently told a Congressional committee that evidence of the ill effects of antibiotics in farming was overwhelming.
He thinks the Food and Drug Administration's efforts to limit antibiotic use on farms have been weak. In 1977, the F.D.A. said it would begin to ban some agricultural uses of antibiotics. But the House and Senate appropriations committees -- dominated by agricultural interests -- passed resolutions against the ban, and the agency retreated. More recently, the agency has limited the use of two important classes of antibiotics in animals. But advocates say it needs to go further and ban use of all antibiotics for growth promotion. Sweden and Denmark have already done so.
Ms. Slaughter said aggressive lobbying by agribusiness interests has played a major role in blocking passage of legislation. According to her staff, of the 225 lobbying disclosure reports filed during the last Congress on a bill she wrote on antibiotic use, nearly nine out of ten were filed by organizations opposed to the legislation.
But the economics of food presents perhaps the biggest obstacle. On large industrial farms, animals are raised in close contact with one another and with big concentrations of bacteria-laden feces and urine. Antibiotics keep infections at bay but also create drug resistance. Those same farms raise large volumes of cheap meat that Americans have become accustomed to.
Governments have begun to acknowledge the danger. The United States recently promised $40 million to a major drug company, GlaxoSmithKline, to help it develop medications to combat antibiotic resistance. But Dr. Price says that new drugs are only a partial solution.
''A lot of people say, 'let's innovate our way out of this,' '' he said. ''But if we don't get a handle on the way we abuse antibiotics, we are just delaying the inevitable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bacteria growing in a dish at a lab in Arizona that studies grocery meat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TGEN) (D1)
 Lance Price, a microbiologist, is using genetic sequencing to try to match bacteria found in grocery meat to urinary infections in a study in Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); MEATS (90%); DRUG RESISTANCE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (89%); BACTERIA (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (78%); GENOMICS (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); FAMILY (70%); AGRICULTURE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (94%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



882 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Reality Star And Husband Are Charged With Fraud

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
A reality television star known for living lavishly, Teresa Giudice of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey'' found that her increasing fame was not enough to provide for her spending habits.
In 2009, she and her husband filed for bankruptcy.
''If you've never been through it, God bless you, don't file!'' she wrote on her blog last year. ''It's a nightmare.'' 
The nightmare grew worse on Monday.
Federal prosecutors charged the couple with mail and wire fraud, contending that they lied on their bankruptcy filings -- as well as on numerous other bank documents and loan applications beginning more than a decade ago, according to a 39-count indictment in Federal District Court in New Jersey.
On the basis of those documents, the indictment says, the couple collected more than $4 million in loans from several institutions from 2001 to 2008. During that time, prosecutors said, the couple created false pay stubs and W-2 tax forms from phantom employers for Ms. Giudice, who was then unemployed, to facilitate the loans.
Ms. Giudice, 41, and her husband, Giuseppe Giudice, 43, who have four daughters and live in Towaco, N.J., began appearing on the reality show in 2009. The couple signed on for a second season for about $110,000 in compensation, according to the indictment, which they did not declare in the bankruptcy filings.
''The reality,'' said Shantelle P. Kitchen, special agent with the Internal Revenue Service, ''is that this type of criminal conduct will not go undetected.''
The indictment also claims that Mr. Giudice, who goes by Joe, failed to file taxes for five years beginning in 2004, a period in which he earned nearly $1 million. The couple are facing large fines and possible prison terms of up to 30 years.
''Today is a most difficult day for our family,'' Ms. Giudice said on Monday in a statement. ''I am hopeful that we will resolve this matter with the government as quickly as possible.''
A lawyer for Ms. Giudice said that she would plead not guilty at a hearing in Newark on Tuesday.
Mr. Giudice will also plead not guilty, said Miles Feinstein, who is representing him both in this case and in one in which he was indicted in state court on charges of using false documents to get a driver's license.
''The Real Housewives of New Jersey'' made its debut at roughly the nadir of the financial crisis, and the couple's money troubles and debt difficulties provided timely fodder for other members of the cast, as well as for gossip items. Their effort to climb out of debt ultimately led them to bankruptcy court.
There, prosecutors said, the increasingly public couple failed to disclose numerous avenues of income, including the true value of their earnings from the show.
In New Jersey, the indictment on Monday resonated both with the general thrust of reality television -- where questionable behavior is a regular feature -- and with a certain image of the state.
''It fits a mold of New Jersey reality, which is often associated with corruption, both fictional and not,'' said Jack Z. Bratich, a Rutgers University professor who has written about reality television. ''It might not be a massive surprise to the public that this goes on."
''The Real Housewives of New Jersey'' is not the only such show on which Ms. Giudice has appeared.
She was on ''Celebrity Apprentice'' in 2012, where, according to her Web site, she ''showcased her business savvy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (74%); WIRE FRAUD (70%); LAWYERS (70%); MAIL FRAUD (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



883 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: A Savior Taking The Reins

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
In the American dream as it once was, one person with an innovative idea and a lot of elbow grease could make a difference, and maybe a fortune. It was a myth -- sometimes realized, but a myth still -- created for the little guy.
Maybe it was the recession, but that tale has changed. The new American dream begins with a failure, a humbling in the face of a circumstance in which your eyes were bigger than your stomach. The new fantasy is that in your darkest hour, a white knight might come to rescue you from the thing you strove for but did not know how to execute properly. This is a story that celebrates the big guy. 
That version, at least, has a reliable narrative, which means that it can make for reliable television, the latest example of which is ''The Profit,'' which begins on Tuesday night on CNBC.
What Gordon Ramsay is to floundering restaurants, what Tabatha Coffey is to hair salons on the fritz -- that's what Marcus Lemonis aspires to be for any number of small businesses. Mr. Lemonis is the chairman and chief executive of Camping World, but also a jack-of-all-enterprises, spotting and stomping out inefficiencies in pursuit of profit.
Profit that Mr. Lemonis shares, naturally. ''The Profit'' is an extension of reality television's long-running charitable impulse, but like the cheery moguls on ABC's ''Shark Tank,'' Mr. Lemonis has skin in the game. He writes checks and takes temporary control, makes significant changes, then hopes his new partners can make him money.
His practices are politely predatory, feasting on small businesses that don't have the resources to advance or to save themselves from eventual collapse. In the first two episodes, there's an additional twist: the companies are run by the founders' children, who are finding it hard to continue their parents' legacies. These are enterprises ripe for takeover, and owners looking to fill an authority vacuum.
The full extent of the business relationship between Mr. Lemonis and his targets is left vague. He offers cash infusions in amounts that are, to an extent, meaningful -- $100,000 here, $200,000 there. For businesses on the precipice of significant debt, that matters, but those numbers probably pale in comparison to the sheer value of the airtime. The conclusion of the premiere, which focuses on Car Cash, a Manhattan-based used-car purchaser, helpfully reminds the viewer that since Mr. Lemonis entered into partnership with the owners, several new licensees have opened in places like Columbia, S.C.; and Buffalo.
Even though the premiere focuses on the tension between two brothers who inherited the business from their father -- Jon, the older, is moody and authoritarian; Andrew, the younger, is creative and constantly holding a tiny dog -- Mr. Lemonis is more interested in the potency of the brand name and the easy exportability of the concept. The family trauma is a speed bump.
Perhaps Mr. Lemonis is just heartless, though he was the subject of a particularly hokey charity-themed episode of ABC's kind-capitalist reality show, ''Secret Millionaire.'' But this being CNBC, which is making its programming increasingly narrative-driven, it's just business. There are PowerPoint-ready tips in each episode. Watch the premiere, and when Car Cash is lowballing your estimate, you'll know why. You'll also see a truTV-worthy staged encounter in which one brother cuts ties with wholesaler middlemen, who look like central-casting henchmen from a third-tier Mafia film.
There's a warmth to Mr. Lemonis's sternness: invariably he's the voice of reason, though there's little competition. That's especially true in the second episode, which focuses on Jacob Maarse Florists, in Pasadena, Calif., which is lagging under the leadership of the founder's son, Hank, who still borrows money from his mother to keep the business afloat. The store is cluttered, there's no inventory tracking system, and the delivery drivers still use paper maps.
Mr. Lemonis calmly runs roughshod over the place, even going so far as to suggest to Hank that perhaps he doesn't want to run the business anymore. It's a sly and disturbing scene, and perhaps a step too far. Whether from resentment or self-doubt, Hank says he's possibly reneging on the deal, which may leave Mr. Lemonis, and his token investment, in the wind.
But Mr. Lemonis has his handshake deal, and whatever contracts may have been signed off camera will not go quietly. Through a representative, Mr. Lemonis said he has filed a lien on the property. ''I always gear my offers toward minimizing my risk,'' he says -- that's big-guy stuff, the new American dream.
The Profit
CNBC, Tuesday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
Produced and created for CNBC by the Hochberg Ebersol Company in association with Machete Productions. Justin W. Hochberg, Charlie Ebersol and Amber Mazzola, executive producers for the Hochberg Ebersol Company. Jim Ackerman and James Bolosh, executive producers for CNBC.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marcus Lemonis bets on small businesses, some family-owned, in ''The Profit.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/CNBC) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



884 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Hunting For Luxury, Retail Giant Buys Saks

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Updated, 8:49 p.m. | When the real estate scion Richard A. Baker acquired the department store chain Lord & Taylor at the market peak in 2006, retail industry players laughed. Mr. Baker, they snickered, was just the latest money guy who would get clobbered trying to break into the fashion business.
No one is snickering anymore.
On Monday, Mr. Baker's Hudson's Bay Company announced that it had agreed to buy Saks Inc., one of the oldest and most revered names in luxury retailing, for $2.4 billion in cash, uniting it with Lord & Taylor and the Canadian chain Hudson's Bay. 
The acquisition would create a behemoth in the retail world and cap an extraordinary run of deal making by Mr. Baker. The combined company would own 320 locations, 179 of which are full department stores. It had combined revenues of about $7 billion in the 2012 fiscal year.
Mr. Baker is a dapper businessman who, once he bought Lord & Taylor, swore allegiance to that chain's Black Brown 1826 private-label suits. Even with that interest in fashion, though, he has largely avoided the follies that have plagued other investors who have gotten into the retail business. He brought in experienced managers (including a handful formerly of Saks), invested in store makeovers and left most of the merchandising decisions to merchants.
''He is more interested in the financials,'' said Walter Loeb, a longtime retail analyst.
Under the terms of the deal, the Hudson's Bay Company will pay $16 a share in cash, about 4.5 percent higher than Saks's closing price on Friday and about 30 percent higher than its closing price on May 20, the last day before reports about a possible sale surfaced. In New York Stock Exchange trading on Monday, Saks shares rose 4.18 percent to $15.95.
Mr. Baker prevailed over a number of other Saks suitors. Among those who explored a deal were Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, which had floated the idea of injecting money into the chain and then merging it with its rival Neiman Marcus. The Qatar Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth fund of the Middle Eastern emirate, also took a serious look at the company.
Saks drew suitors because it continues to benefit from luxury shoppers who, after closing their wallets during the recession, have come back in force since. Its 2012 sales rose 4.4 percent, to $3.15 billion, and executives say it continues to benefit from foreign tourists, particularly from China, Russia and the Middle East.
While industry experts once questioned whether department stores would stay relevant given competition from the Internet, analysts said Saks's prime locations, like Fifth Avenue in New York, had held up well.
''No tourist wakes up in New York and says: 'You know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to log on to the Internet and shop,' '' said Faye Landes, a retail analyst at Cowen.
Mr. Baker described the Fifth Avenue store as having tremendous financial results ''in a neighborhood that has some of the highest rents in the world.''
But Saks also has a number of mall locations that are thought to be less profitable, and it is trying to build an outlet business with its Off Fifth concept.
Mr. Baker, 47, lives in Greenwich, Conn., where he grew up, the son of the shopping mall developer Robert C. Baker. In 2006, restless in the family business, Mr. Baker dove headlong into the retail trade. He teamed up with his father and two real estate investors, Bill Mack and Lee Neibart, to buy Lord & Taylor for $1.2 billion. A couple of years later, he acquired Hudson's Bay and merged the two into a single business. Last year, he listed the combined company on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Mr. Baker said there was no overlap between Saks and Lord & Taylor, even though their flagship Fifth Avenue locations are just 11 blocks apart.
''Where Lord & Taylor ends is where Saks begins,'' he said.
That is not entirely true; both carry items from midprice clothing brands like Catherine Malandrino, but while those goods, which generally cost $300 to $500, represent the top of Lord & Taylor's offerings, they are near the bottom of Saks' price range.
The Lord & Taylor shopper might pick up a Marc Jacobs perfume to own a piece of that brand for less than $100, while the Saks shopper might preorder a $4,395 Marc Jacobs python bag instead.
And Lord & Taylor carries middle-America brands like Jessica Simpson shoes and Kim Kardashian perfume that Saks does not, lest its aura of luxury be sullied.
With the acquisition, Mr. Baker says he plans to push the Saks brand into Canada, where there is only one luxury department store chain, Holt Renfrew. ''There's certainly room for a little competition up there,'' Mr. Baker said. Canadian Saks stores will be ''on the luxurious side of the U.S. Saks stores,'' he said.
As in his previous deals for Lord & Taylor and Hudson's, real estate is an important component of the Saks acquisition.
Mr. Baker told analysts on Monday that he planned to pool the valuable property of the three separate chains and form a real-estate investment trust, or a REIT, which receives preferential tax treatment. Then, by selling shares of the REIT to the public, Hudson's can also raise money to help pay down debt.
Other retailers, including the American department store chain Dillard's and the Canadian food retailer Loblaw, have had recent success executing a similar strategy.
Hudson's is just the latest owner of Saks, which was founded in 1867 as a privately held company operating as a division of Gimbel Brothers, the now-defunct department store. Horace Saks and Bernard Gimbel opened the flagship Fifth Avenue store in 1924.
In 1973, British American Tobacco Industries acquired Saks Fifth Avenue when it purchased Gimbel Brothers, and then sold it in 1990 to Investcorp International, a Bahrain-based investment firm. Proffitt's, the Southern department store chain, acquired the company for $2.1 billion in 1998, changed its name to Saks and jettisoned some of its lower-end divisions to focus on luxury. During the recession, though, as shoppers spent less, Saks expanded its cheaper private-label offerings and pushed designers to offer lower-priced options.
Mr. Baker did not specify whether the new company would continue to employ Stephen I. Sadove, who has been chief executive of Saks since 2006. ''We don't have a closed deal,'' Mr. Baker said, ''so we haven't had those conversations yet.''
As for Mr. Baker, the acquisition also offers a chance for him to upgrade his wardrobe -- Saks's men's labels include Armani, Gucci and Ralph Lauren Black Label.
''I'm very fond of our Black Brown,'' he said. ''But I definitely have more shopping options going forward.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Manhattan flagship store of Saks Fifth Avenue. The venerable luxury chain is being sold to the owner of Lord & Taylor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEMETRIUS FREEMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Richard A. Baker, the chief of the Hudson's Bay Company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%)

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (94%); SAKS INC (85%); KKR & CO LP (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (94%); SKS (NYSE) (85%); KKR (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (70%); MIDDLE EAST (67%); QATAR (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



885 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: William W. Scranton, 96, G.O.P. Prodigy Who Led Pennsylvania, Is Dead

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Daniel E. Slotnik contributed reporting.

 BODY:
William W. Scranton, the moderate Republican governor of Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1967, who lost a run for his party's presidential nomination in 1964 and later served as the United States representative to the United Nations, died on Sunday in Montecito, Calif. He was 96.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Mike DeVanney, a family spokesman. 
A descendant of Mayflower colonists and the founders of Scranton, Pa., heir to a fortune in railroads and utilities, the soft-spoken Mr. Scranton was heralded as a ''Kennedy Republican'' in the early 1960s. His amiable patrician style, and his independence as a fiscal conservative who supported civil rights and other liberal programs, proved popular with voters. He seemed poised for a national political future.
But after he won a seat in Congress in 1960 and a stunning victory for governor in 1962, his rosy political horizons clouded over. An effort to wrest the 1964 Republican presidential nomination from the archconservative Senator Barry M. Goldwater fizzled. State law limited him to one term as governor. And his last months in office dissolved into a bitter struggle with Democrats trying to wing him politically.
Mr. Scranton abruptly announced that he would not run ''ever again for any public office under any circumstances.'' His decision to abandon an obviously promising political career was greeted with derision and skepticism. But it turned out that he meant what he said.
Not yet 50, he became a youngish elder statesman. He served on government commissions, advised the White House on arms control and took on presidential missions -- for Richard M. Nixon in the Middle East, for Gerald R. Ford at the United Nations, for Jimmy Carter on urban policy and intelligence oversight and for Ronald Reagan on Soviet-American relations.
William Warren Scranton was born on July 19, 1917, in Madison, Conn., where his family had a summer home. He was the youngest of four children and the only son of Worthington Scranton, a descendant of New England and Pennsylvania pioneers, and Marion Margery Warren Scranton, a Republican national committeewoman for decades; her ancestors arrived in Massachusetts in 1620.
He attended the Scranton Country Day School, the Fessenden School in West Newton, Mass., and the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., excelling in tennis, debate and dramatics. He studied history at Yale and graduated in 1939. He left Yale Law School in 1941 to join the Army Air Corps; he became a pilot, ferrying planes in many parts of the world, and a captain, but did not see combat in World War II.
In 1942 he married Mary Lowe Chamberlin.
Besides his wife, survivors include a daughter, Susan Scranton Dawson ; three sons, William, Joseph and Peter; and three grandchildren.
After the war he finished law school at Yale, joined a Scranton law firm, then became involved in textbook publishing, banking and industrial development in Pennsylvania. Active in the state Republican Party in the 1950s, Mr. Scranton drew the attention of President Dwight D. Eisenhower and was invited to Washington in 1959 to be a special assistant to Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, and later his successor, Christian Herter.
A year later he ran for Congress in a Democratic stronghold, but won easily. In his 1961-63 term, he voted with the Democrats on foreign aid, civil rights and the Peace Corps. In 1962, at the behest of former President Eisenhower, he ran for governor against Mayor Richardson Dilworth of Philadelphia and won decisively. His name was nationally known as the 1964 presidential race began.
Moderate and liberal Republicans -- concerned about the drift of their party to the right and fearing that the polarizing conservative views of the front-runner, Senator Goldwater of Arizona, might bring defeat in November -- first coalesced around Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York as an alternative. But when the Rockefeller bandwagon lost steam, the dissident focus shifted to Governor Scranton.
Denouncing Goldwater as an agent of fear, Mr. Scranton won the support of 10 state delegations at the Republican National Convention in San Francisco. But Goldwater captured the nomination on the first ballot. He lost the election to President Lyndon B. Johnson in one of the largest landslides in history.
As governor, Mr. Scranton pushed education reforms, creating a state community college system, a state Board of Education and a Higher Education Assistance Agency. He increased the sales tax to subdue a deficit, brought unemployment to new lows and promoted state trade nationally and abroad. He could not run for re-election in 1966, but helped write a new Constitution that allowed governors a second term.
Over the years Mr. Scranton was a director of I.B.M., Scott Paper, The New York Times, Pan American Airways, Mobil Oil and other corporations. He was also a Yale trustee, president of the National Municipal League and a White House workhorse for domestic and international tasks.
President-elect Nixon sent him to the Middle East in 1968 to assess Israeli-Arab relations. He returned calling for ''a more evenhanded policy,'' saying America ''must take into consideration the feelings of all persons and countries in the Middle East and not necessarily one country over another.'' After protests by Jewish leaders, he modified his view, saying Israel should be protected and strengthened.
In 1970, after student protesters were slain by National Guard troops at Kent State University in Ohio and by police officers at Jackson State College in Mississippi, Nixon named Mr. Scranton chairman of a Commission on Campus Unrest. It recommended measures to soothe divisions and forestall violence.
In 1976, President Ford named him to the United Nations post. Unlike his blunt predecessor, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Mr. Scranton made few memorable speeches and aroused little controversy. But delegates said that he brought quiet maturity to diplomacy that had swung from bombast to tirade, and that his finesse made him the most respected United States delegate in years.
Mr. Scranton himself seemed satisfied when, after 10 months, he left in early 1977. ''I think we have begun to break the habit of confrontation,'' he said, ''and have begun to create the habit of getting together on matters and trying to resolve them.''
In November 1980, shortly after the presidential election in which Reagan defeated Carter, Mr. Scranton led a private American delegation to the Soviet Union to informally discuss issues between Washington and Moscow, including the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 and questions over an unratified strategic arms treaty.
Two months later, Mr. Scranton, as chairman of a panel of experts on Soviet-American relations, recommended that the Reagan administration maintain economic sanctions against Moscow to protest its Afghan incursion, and called on the president to negotiate with Moscow on limiting strategic arms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William W. Scranton in 2000 and with Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York when Mr. Scranton sought the 1964 presidential nomination. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL VATHIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LAWYERS (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); CHILDREN (85%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); AIR FORCES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); WORLD WAR II (64%); ARMIES (64%); HISTORY (60%); TEXTBOOKS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: SCRANTON LAW FIRM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (96%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



886 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: George Stocking Jr., 'Anthropology's Anthropologist,' Dies at 84

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
George W. Stocking Jr., a historian of science who chronicled the norms, customs and tribal beliefs of modern anthropologists, documenting a history of racial bias and ethnocentrism as well as great insights, died on July 13 in Chicago. He was 84.
His death was confirmed by a daughter, Susan Stocking Baltrushes, who said his health had been declining for several years. 
Professor Stocking, who taught history and anthropology at the University of Chicago, was best known for his studies of anthropology's pioneers, most notably Edward Burnett Tylor, the self-taught 19th-century British theorist who is often called the father of the field, and Franz Boas, the German-American émigré who pioneered its practice in the United States.
Colleagues said his work helped produce a culture shift in anthropology during the 1960s and '70s that heralded a growing respect for cultural diversity throughout society. ''He was the in-house social critic,'' said Raymond D. Fogelson, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago.
Scholars in the field called Professor Stocking ''anthropology's anthropologist,'' he added.
Professor Stocking's first book, a 1968 collection of essays, ''Race, Culture and Evolution,'' was considered a landmark. Margaret Mead, writing in the journal American Anthropologist, called it ''beautifully and painstakingly'' illuminating.
Professor Stocking described his objective as redefining the accepted view of anthropology's ''origin story,'' one centered on Tylor as a foundational theorist. Tylor is considered to have been the first to define the word ''culture'' in the modern sense: as a set of knowledge, customs and values that all people acquire from their native environments, whether England or Polynesia.
''Race, Culture and Evolution'' profiled Tylor, Boas and others who had professionalized a field that had long been dominated by gentleman amateurs and missionaries. The book traced the ideological fault lines among 19th-century practitioners of anthropology and asserted that Tylor's standing did not bear a close reading of his work.
Though Tylor acknowledged the existence of many human cultures, and refuted early anthropologists who called dark-skinned people savages of another species, he acknowledged only one cultural ideal, believing that ''less civilized'' people should accept guidance from more civilized ones, Professor Stocking wrote.
He quoted Tylor from his canonical 1871 text, ''Primitive Culture,'' ''The civilized man is not only wiser and more capable than the savage, but also better and happier.''
Professor Stocking and others linked the widespread scientific acceptance of such ideas to the brutalities of 19th century colonialism, the annihilation of American Indians and other purported mass ''civilizing'' campaigns.
For Professor Stocking, a genuinely science-based approach to the study of human culture was embodied by Boas, a trained physicist who studied American Indian tribes in the Pacific Northwest and later debunked theories linking race with culture and intelligence. He challenged race's standing as a legitimate scientific concept, calling it ''less a biological fact than a social myth.''
Professor Stocking's essays on Boas, and a book he edited, ''The Shaping of American Anthropology, 1883-1911: A Franz Boas Reader'' (1974), were instrumental in reviving interest in Boas among a generation that had not been born when Boas died in 1942.
''Boas had an agenda: to rid anthropology of racism,'' said Paul A. Erickson, a professor of anthropology at St. Mary's University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and an author, with Liam D. Murphy, of ''A History of Anthropological Theory,'' a standard text. Professor Stocking's work, he said, had revived interest in that agenda as well.
George Ward Stocking Jr. was born on Dec. 8, 1928, in Berlin to George and Dorothe Reichard Stocking. His father, a professor of economics at the University of Texas at Austin, was conducting research in Germany at the time. George Jr. was raised mainly in Austin. He attended Harvard, where he became active in radical political movements and joined the Communist Party. After graduating in 1949, he was a labor organizer and factory worker.
He left the party in 1956 and received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in American studies. He later acknowledged that with his ties to the Communist Party during those cold war years, he would never have been hired as an instructor at the University of California, Berkeley, if not for his father's prominence as an economist and adviser to presidents.
Besides his daughter Ms. Baltrushes, Professor Stocking is survived by his wife, Carol Ann Bowman; three other daughters, Rebecca and Rachel Stocking and Melissa Stocking Robinson; a son, Thomas; two sisters, Sybil Winterburn and Cynthia Peck; 10 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
In a semi-autobiography, ''Glimpses Into My Own Black Box,'' published in 2010, Professor Stocking turned on himself the same unblinking gaze he had trained on the history of anthropology. The book, an account of his youth and family ancestry, amounts to an ethno-historical description of upper-middle-class life at the end of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th.
The seven years he spent as a Communist, Professor Stocking wrote, taught him the habit of ''self-criticism,'' which made him ''suspicious of master narratives'' and open to studying, in effect, the narratives of people who study others' narratives.
''I have always felt myself ultimately an outsider to the anthropological tribe,'' he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



887 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Choosing the Next Fed Leader

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Despite a campaign from allies both inside and outside the White House, the recent drive to install Lawrence Summers as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve seems to be faltering -- and with good reason: He is not the best person for the job, as a group of Democratic senators made clear in a letter to President Obama last week calling for the nomination of Janet Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Fed's board of governors.
But the group behind Mr. Summers does not give up easily. Composed of protégés of Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who was a leader at Citigroup as that institution careened toward its serial bailouts, some of Mr. Summers's supporters are now pushing the notion that neither Mr. Summers nor Ms. Yellen should get the top Fed job. The idea is that the supposed rivalry between them -- fanned by Mr. Summers's supporters -- has consumed both of them, requiring a third candidate. 
That is nonsense. Nothing that has occurred in the past week changes the fact that no one else can match Janet Yellen's combination of academic credentials and policy-making experience. And no one ever confirmed to the job has come to it with as deep a grounding in both the theory and practice of monetary and regulatory policy as Ms. Yellen would bring.
A Yale educated economist and professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, she was first nominated and confirmed to the Fed board in the 1990s; from 2004 to 2010, she served as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. She has been vice chairwoman since 2010, a trying time in which the Fed's largely successful efforts to steer the economy have been made all the more difficult by poor fiscal policy decisions, including the White House's premature pivot from stimulus to deficit reduction, which happened while Mr. Summers was a top adviser to Mr. Obama.
What has changed in the past week is that the power dynamics around economic policy-making have become more public than normal. Mr. Rubin and his circle -- including Mr. Summers; Timothy Geithner, Mr. Obama's first Treasury secretary; and Gene Sperling, currently a top economic adviser to the president -- have dominated economic decisions in both the Clinton and Obama administrations. Most of them were also prominent in Wall Street circles in the George W. Bush years. In the wake of the financial crisis and the Dodd-Frank reform law, the Fed chairmanship has only become more central to the fate of the banks and economy; as a result, they want someone who shares their background and can be counted on to further their views.
Ms. Yellen is not that person, not only, or even mainly, because of policy differences but because she is not part of the fraternity. Indeed, she is reminiscent of other accomplished women with whom Mr. Summers, or his supporters, or both have tangled in the past.
In 1998, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers opposed Brooksley Born, then the chairwoman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for correctly calling for the regulation of derivatives; in 2009, Mr. Summers squelched the sound recommendation of Christina Romer, then an economic adviser to Mr. Obama, for a larger stimulus. In the first Obama term, Mr. Geithner clashed unhelpfully with Sheila Bair, then the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and with Elizabeth Warren, then the chairwoman of the Congressional panel overseeing the bailouts.
In the end, the choice rests with Mr. Obama. The facts are entirely on Ms. Yellen's side. Is the president?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); US DODD FRANK ACT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (66%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



888 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Al Qaeda in Iraq Scores Big

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Jailbreaks are common in Iraq, but the brazen assaults on the prisons at Abu Ghraib and Taji last week are in a class by themselves. The attacks freed perhaps as many as 800 militants, who are now sought by Interpol as a ''major threat'' to global security. The attacks showed the fearsome and growing strength of Al Qaeda in Iraq, seemingly on the decline only a few years ago. They also raised new questions about the effectiveness of Iraq's authoritarian prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, as well as the stability of Iraq itself. 
Al Qaeda in Iraq, an affiliate of Al Qaeda, waged a virulent insurgency that plunged the country on the brink of civil war in 2006 and 2007, then suffered major defeats at the hands of Iraqi tribal groups and American troops. It has since rebounded and is believed largely responsible for a surge in daily bombings that have killed an estimated 700 people this month alone.
The Abu Ghraib and Taji operations were synchronized and sophisticated. Western experts told The Times that the militants used mortars to pin down Iraqi forces, sent suicide bombers to penetrate their defenses and followed up with an assault force to free the inmates. A former American ambassador in Baghdad, James Jeffrey, said Iraqi forces performed poorly, suggesting that their skills had deteriorated since American forces departed at the end of 2011.
Oddly, having spent so much money strengthening Iraq's security forces administration officials have said little, publicly or privately, about why in this case their investment failed so spectacularly.
Iraq is a sovereign country, responsible for its own security. But Iraq might have been better able to repel Al Qaeda if Mr. Maliki and the Americans had worked harder on a deal to keep a token number of troops in the country to continue helping with training and intelligence-gathering. Not surprising, Mr. Maliki's interest in such an arrangement has grown; Army Special Operations and the C.I.A. reportedly have small units in the country to assist in counterterrorism activities. .
Regional volatility, including the Syrian war and Iran, are compounding Iraq's instability. But the core problem is Mr. Maliki, whose monopoly power and favoritism for his Shiite majority brethren over other groups have inflamed sectarian tensions. In particular, he never made good on promises to reintegrate minority Sunnis, banished from power after Saddam Hussein's ouster, into the political and economic life of the country. This has made Al Qaeda in Iraq and other insurgents more appealing to resentful Sunnis.
Administration officials, as they should, are working behind the scenes to calm political disputes among Mr. Maliki and Sunni and Kurdish leaders and to create better relations between Iraq and other countries in the region. But absent a complete change of heart and approach by Mr. Maliki, Iraqis and their country will remain dangerously fractured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); ARMIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (93%); AL-QAEDA (57%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (58%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



889 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Separate Food Waste Will Expand

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO; Michaelle Bond contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Within the next year, New York is preparing to roll out an ambitious plan to get residents and businesses to separate their food waste from other trash -- initially on a voluntary basis -- as they do their paper, metal, glass and plastics.
But already, more than 180 cities and local governments in 18 states offer curbside pickup of food scraps. Now, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Monday the expansion of the city's pilot program for food waste recycling, those communities may offer lessons to New York as it tries to catch up. 
Some cities charge for collecting trash but pick up food scraps and recyclables for free.
Some require that residents separate their food waste for composting, others hold contests and develop ad campaigns to encourage voluntary participation.
And the most determined municipalities are moving toward less frequent garbage collection as they steer residents away from the conventional black trash bin, according to a recent survey by BioCycle, a magazine that promotes recycling.
In many places, apartment buildings have proved the biggest challenge, recycling officials said.
Many residents refuse to come all the way down to a garage or basement to dump their scraps, so space for bins must be found at least on some floors.
Buildings must also devote staff to removing the waste every day, or at least keep it out of sight, to avoid putting off the squeamish.
''Once it was easy, and they realized that we were picking it up every day so it didn't get disgusting, it's become very successful,'' said Linda Corso, general manager of the 169-unit Cathedral Hill Apartments in San Francisco.
Food waste recycling in San Francisco started on a voluntary basis and became mandatory in 2009. But that city gives buildings and homeowners an extra incentive to separate their food scraps -- it charges for collecting trash but not for recyclables, though that will change next month, as the city begins charging a nominal fee for recycled materials.
In New York, local taxes cover waste collection no matter how much trash residents generate, though the city issues fines for not recycling. Bloomberg administration officials say recycling food waste, the single largest component of residential trash, could save the city about $100 million a year in landfill fees and transportation costs.
On Monday, at the Morningside Gardens apartments in Manhattan, Mayor Bloomberg announced details of the planned expansion of the pilot food waste recycling program already going on in schools, residences in the Westerleigh section of Staten Island, and select high-rises in Manhattan. This fall, he said, food waste will be collected in neighborhoods in Brooklyn and the Bronx, and next spring, it will begin in more areas of Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island.
By 2014, the mayor said, the program should reach more than 100,000 households, up from a few thousand now.
''Our job is to do as much as we can and give the building blocks and the tools to the next administration and give them some concrete examples of what works and what doesn't,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference. He also introduced a series of ''Recycle Everything'' ads that will soon be appearing around the city.
San Francisco, where the three-bin setup -- green for compostables, blue for recyclables and black for trash -- has become ubiquitous, has about a dozen trash inspectors who fan out into neighborhoods in the morning before the collection trucks arrive to flip lids and look into trash cans to see if the right waste is making it into the right bin.
The inspectors write up report cards and, in a style that may not go over well in New York, return to knock on doors to talk about what residents did wrong or well. They have yet to impose fines.
''We find that education has the effect we're looking for,'' said Guillermo Rodriguez, a spokesman for the San Francisco Department of the Environment.
Recycling food helps reduce the environmental and economic costs of using landfills by turning leftovers into compost and, increasingly, into biogas to generate electricity and fuel trucks. Some in the waste industry say it is just a matter of time before cities will be selling the waste, rather than paying to get rid of it.
San Francisco has a goal of zero waste -- the point at which more than 90 percent of all waste goes to reuse rather than to landfills and incinerators -- by 2020. The city is already diverting 80 percent of its waste, Mr. Rodriguez said.
But San Francisco has about 125,000 single-family homes, 9,000 apartment buildings and 16,000 commercial properties, compared with New York's more than three million residential households alone.
Will it work here, too? Officials everywhere seem optimistic.
''There's no magic bullet,'' Mr. Rodriguez said, ''but certainly New York can do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cara Gurney of San Francisco's Department of the Environment collects data on how residents dispose of their garbage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); WASTE REDUCTION (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



890 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Despite Gains, Leader of U.S. Forces In Afghanistan Says Troops Must Stay

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Afghan forces are now leading the fight here. They managed an air assault last week, for example, and they may be winning the respect of the Afghan people. But the bottom line for Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr. is simple: Afghanistan still needs the United States and will for years to come.
The problem for General Dunford, the commander of American and allied forces here, is that most Americans no longer seem to believe that the United States needs the war in Afghanistan. 
In an interview on Sunday that he had requested, General Dunford, 58, sought to counter an abundance of disheartening news recently about the war and to make a case for why American troops need to stay in Afghanistan after the NATO combat mission ends next year.
A central theme in his pitch: Americans will not be fighting and dying here after 2014. Afghans are already doing most of the fighting, he said, and by the end of next year ''the actual fighting on a day-to-day basis will all be done by Afghans.''
Still, ''Afghan forces, at the end of 2014, won't be completely independent,'' he said. ''Our presence post-2014 is necessary for the gains we have made to date to be sustainable.''
American forces will be critical behind the scenes for at least another three or four years, he said, to help Afghans master the nuts-and-bolts of running a military: logistics, intelligence analysis, developing the air force. ''We're not talking about putting people on the ground, in harm's way,'' General Dunford said.
For American generals, running the war effort in Afghanistan has always been as much a diplomatic sales job as a battlefield command. Most often, that has meant managing President Hamid Karzai, whose occasional anti-American outbursts have included a threat to join the Taliban and calling Americans demons.
But a steady drumbeat of bad news has forced General Dunford to turn his attention to the home front in an effort to counter the spreading perception that the war is a failed enterprise. An ABC News/Washington Post poll released last week found that only 28 percent of Americans think the war is worth fighting.
Among the developments from Afghanistan that are fueling the disillusionment was a botched effort by the United States to open peace talks with the Taliban, which prompted Mr. Karzai to angrily suspend negotiations on a long-term security deal that would keep Americans here after 2014. Then there was the anti-American tirade by Mr. Karzai's chief of staff, and an ugly spat over whether the United States should pay Afghanistan $70 million in fees to get its equipment out of the country.
The response within the Obama administration has been a renewed debate on the so-called zero option -- pulling out all American troops when the NATO combat mission here ends next year. Congress has also jumped into the fray with a Senate measure to withhold $5 in aid for every $1 Afghanistan charges the United States to move the equipment.
The poor poll numbers ''reflect the noise that's been out there for the last 60 days,'' the general said, asserting that ground realities were better than portrayed in news reports. With the summer fighting season now almost half over, he said, Afghan forces ''have proven very resilient.''
He described Al Qaeda, the reason the United States came to Afghanistan, as a shell of its former self, with only about 75 members in Afghanistan, and most of them too busy trying to stay alive to plan attacks in the West.
But keeping Al Qaeda on the margins would require American Special Operations Forces to remain after 2014 alongside regular troops focused on training, General Dunford said.
As in previous interviews, his focus was narrow, on Afghan security forces. He avoided talk of the debilitating level of corruption within the government, the weakening commitment to human rights among many Afghan officials, the faltering economy and uncertainty about next year's presidential elections.
He did concede, however, that today ''investing in Afghanistan, you could argue, was a gamble.''
But, if the elections are held and Afghan forces are able to keep the vote relatively secure, ''it begins to be a risk like everywhere else,'' he added.
By giving the Afghan Army and the police the tools needed to take on the Taliban, the United States ''is providing the Afghan people with an opportunity to decide what kind of government they want to have.''
Other American and European officials have been far less certain that the election will be a cure. Some contend the Afghan government is as big a threat to the country's stability as the Taliban, if not a greater one.
But few disagree that the Afghan security forces have improved significantly, despite absorbing thousands of combat deaths this year and contending with a desertion rate so high that a quarter to a fifth of the 352,000 soldiers and police officers must be replaced each year.
To stay on track, the Afghans would need hands-on support from American forces through at least 2017, General Dunford said. He declined to specify how large a force should remain, undoubtedly aware that wading into a policy debate has proved treacherous for past commanders.
The Obama administration has indicated that it would probably leave no more than 9,000 troops in Afghanistan, plus a few thousand contributed by NATO allies.
General Dunford said that he asked the administration for more time to make an assessment, but added, ''I don't have reason to believe we'll ask for more than that.''
The general has good reason to be cautious. After President Obama ordered tens of thousands of additional troops to Afghanistan in 2009, administration officials complained the president had been pressured into the decision by commanders who publicly advocated for more troops.
Since then, the White House has at times cut the military out of its deliberations on the pace of the troop drawdown and the future shape of the mission.
In the interview, General Dunford was careful not to get ahead of the administration. When asked whether American forces would use air power to aid Afghan troops in battle after 2014, or help them evacuate the wounded, he replied, ''That will be a policy decision that will be made sometime next year.''
Asked if the military could handle the eventuality of the zero option, the general replied: ''Absolutely.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the commander of American and allied forces in Afghanistan, in his Kabul office. ''Our presence post-2014 is necessary,'' he said in an interview Sunday evening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIR FORCES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



891 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: A Library Off the Lobby

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
Reading material in many hotel rooms has become about as spare as it can be -- open the desk drawer and it might hold a Gideon Bible and a Yellow Pages.
But some hotels are giving the humble book another look, as they search for ways to persuade guests, particularly younger ones, to spend more time in their lobbies and bars. They are increasingly stocking books in a central location, designating book suites or playing host to author readings. While the trend began at boutique hotels like the Library Hotel in New York, the Heathman Hotel in Portland, Ore., and the Study at Yale in New Haven, it is expanding to chain hotels.
For these chains, a library -- or at least the feel of one -- allows a lobby to evolve from a formal space to a more homelike atmosphere, one that younger customers seek. Adam Weissenberg, vice chairman for the travel, hospitality and leisure groups at Deloitte, said, ''My general impression is that this ties into changing demographics.'' He added, ''Younger travelers want to be part of the community.'' 
As with any other change in a hotel, there is a financial angle. Room revenue in hotels rose 6.3 percent in 2012 compared with a year earlier, but food and beverage revenue increased only 2.3 percent, according to PKF Hospitality Research Trends.
For hotels, the challenge is to persuade guests to spend more time, and money, in restaurants and bars, rather than venturing outside.
The Indigo Atlanta-Midtown hotel, for example, has a separate space in the lobby it calls the Library, with books, newspapers and coffee. The Indigo Nashville Hotel also has a library-style seating area.
Country Inns and Suites, with 447 hotels, now has an exclusive arrangement with Penguin Random, called Read It and Return Lending Library, that allows guests to borrow a book and return it to another location during a subsequent stay.
Scott Meyer, a senior vice president at Country Inns, says the goal is to provide guests, 40 percent of whom are business travelers, with ''something they didn't expect.''
Since early July (a version of the program was begun in 2001) the hotel chain has offered novels by Dean Koontz and Steve Berry and other Random House authors, as well as children's books. A corporate blog contains an excerpt from Mr. Koontz's March release, ''Deeply Odd.'' The circulating books for both authors will be from the backlist.
Mr. Berry is enthusiastic about a new outlet for his work. He called it ''the easiest, most efficient, carefree way to put books into the hands of readers.''
In June, the Hyatt Magnificent Mile in Chicago completed a renovation that includes a bar stocked with books and magazines and a small number of computers.
Marc Hoffman, the chief operating officer of Sunstone Hotel Investors, which owns the hotel, says he has also brought the library concept to Sunstone's other hotels, including the Renaissance Washington, D.C., Downtown Hotel which has books about presidents and sports; the Newport Regency Beach Hyatt; and the Boston Marriott Long Wharf, where he says books about the Boston Celtics, fishing and baseball are popular.
''We're creating spaces people can relax in,'' he said.
Bookstores and Web sites supplying hotels report an uptick in business. The Strand bookstore in New York, for example, sells books to the Library Hotel and the Study at Yale, as well as to hotels in Dallas, Houston, New Orleans, and Philadelphia, among others. Jenny McKibben, who coordinates the store's corporate accounts, estimates that 60 percent of corporate business stems from hotels or design firms working for hotels.
Before the recession, she said, 15 to 20 hotels a year would call to order books. Now, with increased guest interest and newer technology that allows hotels to review pictures and title lists, the number of hotels ordering has increased to about 40 annually. ''It's a new luxury item,'' she said of books.
Meanwhile the boutique hotels are personalizing a library-like experience even more.
At the Library Hotel in New York, where individual floors are assigned numbers from the Dewey decimal system and rooms have books within that classification, the hotel ran a haiku contest in April to celebrate National Poetry Month.
Steven Perles, an international lawyer practicing in Washington and a frequent guest, didn't participate in the contest, but during a recent stay he considered his choice of the hotel. ''Books are so much part of the appeal,'' he said, although on an earlier trip he said he stayed in a room designated for Slavic languages and couldn't understand any of them. Still, he gives the hotel high marks for its service.
Powell's Books in Portland, Ore., supplies books to the Heathman Hotel in that city. Authors appearing at the bookstore or nearby Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, who stay at the hotel, go through a ritual of signing their most recent work to add to the hotel's collection. The hotel has nearly 2,100 books signed by authors including works by Saul Bellow, Stephen King and Greg Mortenson. Guests have access to the library each evening.
Some hotels are staging author readings. Ahead of President Obama's second inauguration, Lewis Lapham, editor of Lapham Quarterly and former editor of Harper's Magazine, read excerpts from ''A Presidential Miscellany,'' a book he wrote, at the St. Regis Hotel in Washington.
The Algonquin Hotel in New York is looking to build on its rich literary history with a suite stocked with books from Simon & Schuster.
On a recent evening, more than 125 people gathered in the hotel's main lobby to hear Chuck Klosterman, the author, essayist and columnist on ethics for The New York Times, read from his latest work, ''I Wear the Black Hat,'' published by Simon & Schuster.
Mr. Hoffman said that hotel books could become a souvenir. He says every book is stamped with the hotel name. And he concedes that some guests may take them home.
''We hope they remember the trip, remember the good times and go back again,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Renaissance Washington, D.C., Downtown Hotel stocks books about presidents and sports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); TRENDS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (79%); LIBRARIES (79%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (66%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (56%); COUNTRY INNS & SUITES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (53%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



892 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank's Earnings Tumble on Legal Costs

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: Deutsche Bank, the largest European investment bank, said its second-quarter net profit fell by half, to $444 million, hurt by costs related to lawsuits and by fewer fees from financial market trading. 

 BODY:
Updated, 5:12 a.m. | 
FRANKFURT - Deutsche Bank, Europe's largest investment bank, said on Tuesday that net profit fell by half in the second quarter as it earned fewer fees from financial market trading and absorbed costs related to lawsuits.
Responding to criticism that it is overly dependent on borrowed money, the bank also announced plans to shrink its total financial holdings to reduce risk and address demands by regulators that lenders increase their ability to absorb losses. 
The results showed that Deutsche Bank, like many of its peers, was still hampered by the aftereffects of the financial crisis as well as continued turmoil in securities market. In addition, banks face growing momentum for rules that would curtail their use of leverage, or borrowed money.
"The current quarter performance was significantly impacted by an uncertain macroeconomic backdrop which resulted in elevated market volatility and a broad sell-off across asset classes toward the end of the quarter," Deutsche Bank said in a statement.
Much of the turmoil was the result of investor fears about a slowdown in China and nervousness about how quickly the United States Federal Reserve will withdraw its economic stimulus measures, Stefan Krause, Deutsche Bank's chief financial officer, told analysts during a conference call.
Net profit fell to 335 million euros ($444 million) from 666 million in the second quarter of 2012, Deutsche Bank said. Revenue rose 2 percent in the quarter, but the gain was offset by additional expenses, including the cost of legal proceedings.
The bank faces numerous lawsuits, including some from aggrieved investors who bought investments related to the American real estate market before the subprime crisis in 2008. Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had increased the money set aside for litigation expenses by 630 million euros, bringing the total to about 3 billion euros.
Deutsche Bank said it would shrink the size of its assets, the sum of its financial holdings, by 16 percent, or 250 billion euros, by the end of next year. The bank has been hurt by the perception, which it disputes, that it is one of the most-leveraged big lenders in the world. Reducing total assets is one way for the bank to address the criticism. 
Leverage, the use of borrowed money to make investments, was the main theme during a conference call between Deutsche Bank's top management and analysts on Tuesday morning. "Regulators, politicians and analysts have shifted their attention to leverage in the last few months," Mr. Krause acknowledged.
Deutsche Bank said it had increased its so-called Core Tier 1 capital ratio, one measure of a bank's ability to absorb losses, to 10 percent at the end of June from 8.8 percent at the end of March, based on the latest regulatory standards.
The bank said its leverage ratio, the proportion of its own cash or shares to borrowed money, was 3 percent. Many economists consider the leverage ratio to be a better measure of a bank's resiliency than the capital ratio; regulators in the United States are in the process of raising the required leverage ratio for the largest banks to 6 percent.
The ratio, however, depends partly on how banks value their assets. Under some of the latest proposals from regulators, which would restrict banks' ability to use accounting rules to reduce reported assets, Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio would be under 3 percent, Mr. Krause indicated in response to analyst questions.
In a statement, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, co-chief executives of the bank, said they were "committed to further reducing the balance sheet in a manner that enables us to meet requirements on leverage ratio, sustain our value proposition to clients and strengthen our business model without materially impacting financial performance." 

        
Deutsche Bank Posts a Profit and Agrees to Raise Its Capital Reserves
        
German Authorities Are Said to Investigate Deutsche Bank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); EURO (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%) Deutsche Bank AG; Germany; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



893 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Upward Mobility Is No Less Common in 'Red' America

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The odds of escaping poverty are nearly identical in liberal regions and conservative regions, according to a recently released study. 

 BODY:
Is it easier to climb the economic ladder in red America or blue America?
In the wake of a new study on upward mobility released last week, economistsandwriters have been debating that question. To some - and to some readers of my article on the study - the data seemed to suggest that climbing from poverty to the middle class and beyond was harder in conservative states than in liberal ones. Looking at the map that ran in last Monday's Times, the immediate impression is that some of the lowest rates of mobility occur in the solidly Republican Deep South:
Yet that immediate conclusion turns out to be misleading. The odds of escaping poverty are nearly identical in liberal regions and conservative regions, at least according to this study, which some economists regard as the most comprehensive mobility analysis to date. 
The patterns make sense in light of the four factors the study cited as being strongly correlated with upward mobility rates: school quality; family structure; civic engagement, including membership in religious groups; and the size and geographic dispersion of the middle class. These factors do not strongly favor either conservative America or liberal America.
On the one hand, divorce tends to be less common in high-mobility areas, and Democratic states generally have lower divorce rates. But religious participation, another feature of high-mobility regions, is typically higher in Republican states. Standardized test scores are generally higher in Democratic states than Republican ones, but several conservative states, like Kansas, Montana and the Dakotas, have high scores, according to the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
The study also found that some of the metropolitan regions with a notably small number of middle-class households (based on the national income distribution) and a high concentration of poverty are in blue-leaning states. Milwaukee, Chicago, Detroit and Baltimore all make that list.
Depending on the precise cut of the statistics you examine, blue America or red America may look slightly better. But the two are effectively tied. My colleague Amanda Cox and I, for instance, looked at all the areas that voted for President Obama in 2012 and compared them with those that went for Mitt Romney. In Obama areas, the chance that a child born into a household in the bottom fifth of the income distribution had risen into the top fifth was 8.1 percent. In Romney areas, it was only marginally higher, 8.5 percent.
When we expanded the analysis to look at children born into the bottom fifth who had made it into one of the top two fifths, the chances were 21.1 percent for Obama areas and 22.1 percent for Romney areas.
These numbers make it clear that mobility does not appear to be more common in blue America. But it would also be a mistake to go the other way and conclude that mobility is less common. Raj Chetty, one of the four economists who conducted the study, said he and his co-authors ran the numbers multiple ways and concluded that there was effectively zero correlation between an area's upward mobility and its political views.
It's true that upward mobility is less common in Deep South. (In the 11 states that made up the Confederacy, the odds of jumping from the bottom fifth of the income distribution in childhood to the top fifth in adulthood were only 6.6 percent, compared with 8.9 percent in the rest of the country.)
But mobility was also notably low in Democratic-leaning Michigan and in the swing state of Ohio. As Paul Krugman noted in his column today, Atlanta and Detroit, which otherwise have little in common, both suffer from low mobility. And while the Northeast and West Coast, Democratic strongholds, have high rates of mobility, some of the highest rates are in Utah, Wyoming and the Dakotas, none of which have voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in almost 50 years.
Conservative regions and liberal regions of this country are different in many ways. On economic mobility, though, those differences largely appear to cancel each other out. There seem to be lessons for both blue America and red America in the new data.

        
New Polls Are Bad News for Obama, and Worse for Congress
        
Religious Groups Urge Deficit Reduction and Protection of the Poor
        
Polls Show Dissatisfaction With Country's Direction, but Support for Obama's Agenda
        
White House Discontinues Jobs Council
        
In Debt Game, an Early Move From Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); CHILDREN (72%); RELIGION (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) Income; United States Economy; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



894 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: A Mexican Slick

BYLINE: CARLOS PUIG


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal to partly privatize Mexico&#8217;s energy sector has revived the mother of all political debates. 

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY - Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the two-time left-wing presidential candidate, is angry - very angry. "The proposal from PAN's elites to privatize our oil reaffirms their role as lackeys. Posers. Followers of EPN," he wrote in a tweet, referring, first, to a rival political party, and, second, to President Enrique Peña Nieto. "Traitors to Mexico."
He then added, about the national oil company: "If EPN wants to modernize Pemex it would suffice to clean its corruption. But no, the proposed privatization is looting. Thieves!" 
The fuss started when Peña Nieto, while in Europe last month, informed several news outlets of his plan to send to Congress a bill that would allow private investment in Mexico's government-run energy sector. He gave no specifics, but the simple mention of "private investment" was enough to cause a stir and prompt parties on the left to say that they would end all ongoing negotiations to reform the electoral code, tax laws and the education system.
López Obrador, who took second place behind Peña Nieto in last year's presidential election, has vowed to take to the streets of Mexico City if the government and its allies in Congress approve any changes to Article 27 of the Constitution, which grants the government, among other things, all rights to explore, produce, process and distribute oil.
Lorenzo Meyer, a leading historian and political commentator, speaking on television recently, tried to lend some historical depth to López Obrador's position with this flourish: "We cannot forget that oil was what coagulated our nationalism."
It is true that oil talk has been the mother of political debates in Mexico ever since 1938, when President Lázaro Cárdenas expropriated all oil and gas companies and nationalized them to form Pemex - today a 150,000-employee monster that has an absolute monopoly on every aspect of oil exploration, processing and distribution in Mexico and generates 34 percent of the government's revenues. Official textbooks used in primary schools today paint that move as a sacred moment - a formative episode when a Mexican leader expelled all foreigners seeking to take advantage of our natural resources. Many Mexicans see Pemex itself as a national good and a bulwark against shady outsiders.
But all this nationalism is obscuring the real problem, which is that the United States, the biggest consumer of Mexican oil, is buying less and less from us at a time when Pemex has no money to explore Mexico's soil where, according to a recent report by the Mexican Institute of Competitiveness, lie enormous untapped reserves.
In recent decades, countries with similar restrictions on foreign investment, like Brazil, have eased those laws to allow private capital into state companies that explore and process energy resources. But not Mexico - at least not yet. The current government is convinced that partial privatization is the way to jumpstart a stagnating economy and address deepening social problems: the number of poor people in Mexico increased from 49 million in 2008 to 53 million in 2012.
And so Manlio Fabio Beltrones, the leader of Peña's party in Congress, dismissed the naysayers last week: "They talk about Article 27 as if it were the Virgin of Guadalupe - never to be touched." If Lopez Obrador has his way, and manages to organize the massive protest he has called for on Sept. 9 in the Zócalo, the capital's main square, the debate could, indeed, take on Biblical proportions.

        
Complicate to Circumvent
        
Crime and Banishment
        
Cities of God
        
Toeing the Line
        
Drowning by Numbers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TEXTBOOKS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HISTORY (64%) Lopez Obrador, Andres Manuel; Mexico; Nationalization of Industry; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pemex; Privatization; Americas

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Pemex

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%) Lopez Obrador, Andres Manuel

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



895 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Best of St. John's Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: The auction at the Concours d&#8217;Elegance of America in Michigan over the weekend saw several cars sell for several hundred thousand dollars; used-car prices continue to fall. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
Results from the auction held at the Concours d'Elegance of America over the weekend are in, but none of the prices were particularly breathtaking. According to RM Auctions, the top 10 sales were the 1929 Duesenberg Model J Dual-Cowl Phaeton ($682,000.00); the 1932 Packard Individual Custom Eight Convertible Victoria ($374,000); the 1932 Packard Twin Six Sport Phaeton ($330,000); the 1933 Marmon Sixteen Five-Passenger Sedan ($330,000); the 1934 Lincoln Model KB Convertible Sedan ($275,000); the 1931 Cord L-29 Cabriolet ($231,000); the 1934 Packard Super Eight Convertible Victoria ($225,500); the 1935 Packard Twelve Coupe Roadster ($187,000); the 1937 Cord 812 Phaeton ($173,250) and the 1931 Lincoln Model K Sport Phaeton ($165,000). 
 In an apparent effort to capitalize upon the lampooning of beleaguered New York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner, Mini has taken to Twitter with a fake account. Going by @CarlosDMotor, Mini's faux Twitter handle resembles the "Carlos Danger" moniker Mr. Weiner used when he sent inappropriate pictures of himself to various women. Mini also used pictures that resembles the settings of photos of Mr. Weiner that came to light in 2011, leading to his resignation from Congress. (Autoblog)
https://twitter.com/CarlosDMotor/status/360551528064483328
 According to a report from The Associated Press, used-car prices, which have been in decline since 2011, are likely to continue falling. Even economical hybrids and compacts have fallen. During the latter half of 2012, the average used-car retail price dropped by about $1,000, a trend which might continue this year, Alec Gutierrez of Kelley Blue Book told The A.P. (The Associated Press)
 Although the popularity of unibody crossover utility vehicles is rising, Toyota says it will continue to build truck-based body-on-frame sport utility vehicles. Motoharu Araya, the chief engineer for Toyota's truck and S.U.V. products, told Automotive News that customers interested in off-road driving and towing have been more interested in the greater durability of traditional truck-based S.U.V.'s. Toyota sold 78,457 of the beefier S.U.V.'s last year, which include the 4Runner, FJ Cruiser, Sequoia and Land Cruiser models. C.U.V.'s like the Highlander have been more commercially successful, selling 121,055 units last year, but Mr. Araya says demand for heavier duty utility vehicles is still present. (Automotive News)
 Spray-on vinyl bed liners have been a popular upgrade for pickup trucks for a number of years, but a report from USA Today suggests that more truck owners are getting the entire vehicle coated with the rough, tough-looking coat. For some, it's a matter of practicality; bed liners give a level of protection that paint can't provide. But others like its unconventional, macho look, the report shows. Line-X, one of the more prominent bed liner companies, has seen the fairly recent trend as an opportunity to expand its business. (USA Today)

        
Wheelies: The Steve McQueen Camper Edition
        
The Weekend Wheels Calendar
        
Wheelies: The Next NSX Edition
        
Wheelies: The World's Most Expensive S.U.V. Edition
        
James Bond's Submersible Lotus Resurfaces

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SEDANS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); USED CAR DEALERS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (52%); MAYORS (52%) Auctions; automobiles; Lincoln Motor Co; Michigan; RM Auctions; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Sports Utility Vehicles and Light Trucks; Toyota Motor Corporation; Used Cars; Automobiles; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE

COMPANY: KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Lincoln Motor Co; RM Auctions; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



896 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: A Spurned Offer on Corporate Taxes

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The rejection of President Obama&#8217;s proposal to trade a corporate tax cut &#8212; a goal Republicans have long sought &#8212; for a small jobs package shows Washington&#8217;s dysfunction, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Given today's political climate, one should not be surprised by senseless opposition to good ideas, but I must say I was a bit stunned by the Republican response to President Obama's proposal to trade a corporate tax cut for a small jobs package.
I choose the word "good" above carefully to mean an idea that is designed to appeal to Republicans who have long been clamoring for a corporate rate cut. At this point, if the president came out in favor of breathing, they'd tell their caucus members to hold their breaths. 
A bit of background: President Obama is announcing a plan Tuesday to lower the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent. The proposal is "revenue-neutral," meaning that even though the rate comes down, the amount of revenue collected will not change, because of a broader tax base. This is a common feature in tax reform proposals: you pay for a lower rate by closing loopholes and special breaks for various industries, breaks with which the corporate tax code is, of course, ripe.
Now, here's an interesting, albeit weedy, wrinkle. Some of the revenues you get from the base broadening are one-hit wonders: the Treasury gets a lift from a transition from one tax structure to another, but it's not the kind of revenue stream you can count on in later years. The smart thing to do in that situation is thus not to count on those revenues for the future but to do something useful with them now. 
For example, you can pay the bill on a temporary jobs package that includes infrastructure projects, school modernization, support for new innovation in manufacturing and worker training through community colleges. These ideas look to me to have also been chosen, if not to appease the Republicans, then not to provoke knee-jerk opposition, as would have been the case if the White House said, for example, "New jobs for teachers!"
So, reviewing: we've got a big drop in the corporate rate that doesn't add to the deficit, for which the Republicans have only to swallow a paid-for jobs program in areas they've historically supported. And what's the response?
From the spokesman for the House speaker, Representative John Boehner: "This proposal allows President Obama to support President Obama's position on taxes and President Obama's position on spending, while leaving small businesses and American families behind."
I know, we're in an upside-down world, but given how hard Republicans have fought for a lower corporate rate, the absence of accountability is particularly striking in this example. At this point, I truly wonder that if he finally gave in and offered to repeal Obamacare, they'd fight to implement it tomorrow.
The other line of Republican attack is that the idea will hurt small businesses. Not only is there no evidence of that, but part of the plan is actually to allow small business an immediate write-off of 100 percent of the costs of new equipment, up to $1 million. That gives small businesses an incentive to invest, and lowers, not raises, the taxes of those who do so.
Let me be clear: I'm not 100 percent happy with this deal. I firmly believe that corporate tax reform should be revenue-positive, not neutral. The corporate sector is contributing historically little to our revenue base, and I see little reason to lock that in. But from the Republicans' perspective, that's a feature, not a bug.
Finally, some in the opposition are criticizing the deal because they want a full package that combines reform of both the corporate and individual sides of the code. Well, I'd like to dunk like LeBron James, but it's not going to happen, especially with Republicans as dug in as they are on no-new-revenues (not sure what that has to do with my basketball skills, but you get it).
This is a good deal for them, and given how wrenchingly tough the politics are right now, and how much the jobless need the help, it is a compromise that even revenue-positive folks like myself should accept. That it appears to be facing the same blockade as everything else gives you a sense of Washington's dysfunction.

        
The Path to Complexity on the Health Care Act
        
Positive News Muddles Political Talking Points
        
The Politics of the 14th Amendment and the Debt Limit
        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
The Multinational Equation on Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX REFORM (76%); CAUCUSES (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Boehner, John A; Corporate Taxes; Labor and Jobs; Law and Legislation; Obama, Barack; Republican Party; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%) Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013



897 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Present Closing Arguments in Former Goldman Trader's Fraud Case

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Fabrice Tourre is accused of scheming with a big hedge fund to defraud investors in connection with a 2007 trade. 

 BODY:
Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, was either a greedy scheming liar or a bright young executive just trying to do his job, according to dueling portraits presented during closing arguments Tuesday in the most prominent case from the financial crisis to go to trial.
These competing views of Mr. Tourre, who is accused of scheming with a big hedge fund to defraud investors in connection with a 2007 trade, were the last attempt by lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission and Mr. Tourre to influence the nine-member jury, which includes a school principal, a retired special education teacher and a former stockbroker. 
Matthew Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, was the first to present his closing remarks and had the last word with jurors in a rebuttal. Mr. Martens, who at times during the trial has appeared a bit rigid, hit his stride Tuesday, speaking clearly and forcefully from a lectern for more than three hours.
"When it came to lies from the witness stand, Mr. Tourre took the cake," he told jurors. He said Mr. Tourre conspired with the hedge fund Paulson & Company to commit a $1 billion fraud to "feed Wall Street greed," and he asked the jury to hold Mr. Tourre "accountable for his actions."
Mr. Tourre, a 34-year-old Frenchman, was living in a "Goldman Sachs land of make believe" where deceiving investors is not fraudulent, Mr. Martens said.
Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, accused the S.E.C. of peddling "half truths" and "deceit" against his client. Unlike Mr. Martens, Mr. Coffey did not stand in one place during his closing, opting instead to pace in front of the jury, often ad-libbing. He picked up steam during his remarks and at one point appeared to be holding back tears.
"The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence," he said.
Jurors have been listening to testimony for 12 days, and on Wednesday the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan, will give them instructions.
Mr. Tourre faces seven fraud-related charges, and the jury can find him liable on some or all of them. To find him liable, the jury has to find that Mr. Tourre made a material or important misstatement and did not correct it. The S.E.C. does not need to prove intent for all of the charges. Jurors can find Mr. Tourre did not intend to deceive investors but was reckless or negligent, and that could bring lesser penalties. If the jury returns an unfavorable verdict, Mr. Tourre faces fines and a possible ban from the securities industry.
Much of the closing arguments centered on a Jan. 10, 2007, e-mail that Mr. Tourre sent to Laura Schwartz, an executive at a financial firm that Goldman hoped would manage and invest in a mortgage-related security. He suggested both that a portion of the security usually held by a bullish investor had been spoken for, when that was not the case, and that Paulson & Company was a "transaction sponsor," which some could have interpreted wrongly as the hedge fund betting that the investment would succeed.
Mr. Tourre admitted the e-mail was not accurate, and the S.E.C. contended that Mr. Tourre never corrected that misimpression despite several statements by Ms. Schwartz that referred to Paulson & Company as an "equity," or long, investor. Mr. Martens alluded to testimony by both Ms. Schwartz and her former boss that their firm would never have participated if they had known the hedge fund was betting against the deal.
But Mr. Coffey fought back, arguing that his client had corrected the misimpression with multiple offering documents and noting that an executive at Paulson & Company testified that he had in fact told Ms. Schwartz of his employer's plans to bet against the security.
Mr. Coffey also contended that Ms. Schwartz regularly dealt with hedge funds interested in strategies similar to the one Paulson & Company was pursuing. He scoffed at Ms. Schwartz's claim that she had no sense of the fund's strategy despite numerous news articles about its mortgage bets.
Mr. Martens pointed out that not all investors in the deal were aware of the hedge fund's involvement or intentions, particularly IKB, a German bank involved. But Mr. Coffey noted testimony from a former colleague of his client who said such information would have been immaterial, given the nature of the deal.
Both sides also sought to poke holes in the credibility of opposing witnesses. Mr. Martens repeatedly doubted Mr. Tourre's sudden recollection on the stand of why he described the first meeting between Ms. Schwartz and Paulson as "surreal" six years after the fact. Mr. Coffey countered that it is not uncommon for people to remember things with the help of related documents, which is what Mr. Tourre did in this instance. But Mr. Coffey questioned Ms. Schwartz's credibility, pointing out that her testimony coincided with the S.E.C.'s dropping a separate investigation into her.
The trial has taken its toll on all sides. While riding the elevator down with Mr. Tourre after his closing remarks, Mr. Coffey announced, "I need a Scotch, and I am going to have one."

        
In Tourre Trial, S.E.C. Wages Battle Against Its Own Witness
        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CONSPIRACY (89%); VERDICTS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); WITNESSES (77%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); JUDGES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (55%) Manhattan (NYC); Securities and Exchange Commission; Tourre, Fabrice P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (94%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



898 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Over a Million Are Denied Bank Accounts for Past Errors

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Being rejected for a bank account can lead to a succession of fees for cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money. 

 BODY:
Mistakes like a bounced check or a small overdraft have effectively blacklisted more than a million low-income Americans from the mainstream financial system for as long as seven years as a result of little-known private databases that are used by the nation's major banks.
The problem is contributing to the growth of the roughly 10 million households in the United States that lack a banking account, a basic requirement of modern economic life.
 Unlike traditional credit reporting databases, which provide portraits of outstanding debt and payment histories, these are records of transgressions in banking products. Institutions like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo say that tapping into the vast repositories of information helps them weed out risky customers and combat fraud - a mounting threat for banks. 
But consumer advocates and state authorities say the use of the databases disproportionately affects lower-income Americans, who tend to live paycheck to paycheck, making them more likely to incur negative marks after relatively minor banking missteps like overdrawing accounts, amassing fees or bouncing checks.
When the databases were created more than 20 years ago, they were intended to help banks guard against serial fraud artists, like those accused of writing bogus checks. Since then, though, the databases have ensnared millions of low-income Americans, according to interviews with financial counselors, consumer lawyers and more than two dozen low-income people in California, Illinois, Florida, New York and Washington.
Jonathan Mintz, the commissioner of the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs, says banks' growing reliance on customer databases has frustrated efforts to help an estimated 825,000 New Yorkers without bank accounts gain access to the mainstream financial system.
"Hundreds of thousands of Americans are being shut out for relatively small mistakes," Mr. Mintz said.
As a result, many have no choice but to turn to costly fringe operations to cash checks, pay bills and wire money. Saving for the future, financial counselors say, can be especially difficult.
The ranks of those without bank accounts have swelled - up more than 10 percent since 2009, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation - as banks have sharpened their focus on more affluent customers who typically generate twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts. Many banks are closing branches in poor areas and expanding in wealthier ones, according to an analysis of federal data.
Rejection for would-be bank customers can come as a shock. Tiffany Murrell of Brooklyn says a credit union denied her checking account application in September 2012 even though she had a job as a secretary and was up to date on her bills.
The obstacle, it turned out, was a negative report from ChexSystems, a consumer credit reporting firm that provides customer data to virtually every major bank and credit union in the nation. The black mark stemmed from a overdraft of roughly $40 in June 2010, according to a copy of a letter that the 31-year-old Ms. Murrell later received from ChexSystems. While she repaid the amount, plus interest and fees, before applying for a new account, the incident, she says, has barred her from opening an account at nearly every bank she has tried, an experience she called "insulting and frustrating."
While many Americans have at least a vague idea that their credit report is crucial when applying for a loan, few realize that a parallel report is used for bank accounts.
"Most of my clients have no idea these databases exist, let alone what they did to end up in them," said Kristen Euretig, a financial counselor with Neighborhood Trust Financial Partners, a nonprofit group in New York.
The largest database, founded in the 1970s, is run by ChexSystems, a subsidiary of FIS, a financial services company in Jacksonville, Fla. Subscribers - Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citibank and Wells Fargo among them - "regularly contribute information on mishandled checking and savings accounts," ChexSystems says on its Web site. "A consumer may dispute any information in their file and ChexSystems will facilitate the resolution of the dispute on the consumer's behalf," the company said in a statement. A rival, Early Warning, which is owned by Bank of America, BB&T, Capital One, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, says roughly 80 percent of the 50 largest American banks pay a fee to subscribe to its deposit-check service.
"Client banks are focused on leveraging intelligence to mitigate fraud from going into the system," said Frank Caruana, the company's chief marketing officer.
But the databases are coming under scrutiny from consumer lawyers and federal regulators, who say it can be challenging to remove inaccurate information or get copies of the reports, a requirement under federal law.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has fielded complaints about the databases and is determining whether they comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a federal law meant to stanch the flow of inaccurate consumer information, according to people familiar with the investigation. Banks are required to provide a reason for rejecting an applicant.
Some databases, though, provide scant details of the reason for the negative mark, according to a review of more two dozen letters. Mr. Caruana of Early Warning says the company gives the fine details to its clients, outlining, for example, how much of outstanding debt is principal and how much is fees.
Culling information from the databases is one prong in an assessment, as lenders vet potential customers and screen for fraud. Losses from fraud on new bank accounts surged to $9.8 billion last year, up 50 percent from a year earlier, according to Javelin Strategy and Research.
JPMorgan says a negative report in ChexSystems will rarely bar someone from obtaining an account. Others, like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo, say they use the information carefully, distinguishing between people who have made mistakes and those who have a history of fraud. Some banks have introduced second-chance checking accounts for people who do not qualify for traditional bank accounts.
Ultimately, Mr. Caruana said, the decision rests with the banks. He noted the soundness of the reports - of the 50 million the company issued last year, only 3,600 were disputed for inaccuracy. And banks and credit unions say that they work to ensure that customers are not penalized for minor mistakes.
Yet the interviews with officials, consumer advocates and the people denied accounts offer a starkly different picture.
"We have had too many experiences where even banks that have offered to be flexible with us find their own internal risk management systems mean that their hands are tied," said Mr. Mintz, New York's commissioner of consumer affairs.
The problem, said Jerry DeGrieck, a senior policy adviser to Mayor Mike McGinn of Seattle, is that "lenders just don't want to take a risk on these clients."
Recent regulations, which rein in the fees that banks can charge - including overdraft protection, a big moneymaker on lower-income customers' accounts - have made lenders more reluctant to take gambles on customers with tarnished records, analysts say. Simply put, it is less economical for banks to provide inexpensive financial services and it is tougher for banks to generate revenue on lower-income customers who typically maintain small account balances. Still, banks say they are committed to provide banking services broadly.
The sting of being rejected, though, can make lower-income individuals feel like second-class citizens.
"I just don't understand why they wouldn't want me," said Ms. Murrell, the Brooklyn secretary. "It feels unfair."
The costs of not having a bank account for seven years - the longest amount of time that a negative report remains in the databases - can quickly add up. David Korzeniowski, 23, said an employee at a bank in Lansing, Mich., had told him that an overdrawn account reported to ChexSystems very likely scuttled his chances of a checking account until 2016.
Mr. Korzeniowski, who acknowledges "he made a mistake," says the fees he pays for cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money cannibalize the paycheck he gets from part-time construction work. "Everything is more expensive," he said.

        
Banks Find More Wrongful Foreclosures Among Military Members
        
Wall Street Stocks Slump in Wake of Obama's Win

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); WIRE TRANSFERS (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); COUNTERFEITING (69%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Checks and Checking Accounts; Citigroup Inc; Consumer Protection; Credit Scores; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Personal Finances; Wells Fargo & Company; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company; Wells Fargo &amp; Company

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



899 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(After Deadline)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2013

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: The Stranger in the Lead

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: When in doubt, start with an anecdote. Generations of journalists in search of a fresh, engaging way to start a story have done it. Introduce a person by name, often someone unknown to your reader. Recount a brief (or not-so-brief) anecdote. Sprinkle in a few telling details. And then, at last, explain why this stranger is a perfect example of a larger phenomenon &#8212; in other words, get to the point. 

 BODY:
When in doubt, start with an anecdote.
Generations of journalists in search of a fresh, engaging way to start a story have done it. Introduce a person by name, often someone unknown to your reader. Recount a brief (or not-so-brief) anecdote. Sprinkle in a few telling details. And then, at last, explain why this stranger is a perfect example of a larger phenomenon - in other words, get to the point.
Occasionally it works brilliantly, especially if the anecdote is truly striking and can be told in just a few words. In other cases, the approach is merely serviceable. And sometimes it seems shopworn and formulaic, a writer's indulgence that comes at the expense of the reader's time and patience.
The more often we rely on the device, the less enticing it seems. One day last week (7/22), we had four front-page stories with soft leads highlighting names that most readers would not recognize; two of them were women struggling with financial challenges. None of the leads were bad. The one from Pakistan seemed particularly striking to me. (And arguably, the Bridgeport story was a profile and the opening was not a classic anecdote.) But the overall effect seems clichéd and lacking in urgency. 
Of course, none of the writers knew what their colleagues were writing. But chances are, if you are starting your story with an anecdote, you aren't the only one. And editors who can see the big picture should try to guard against such repetition.
 Geography Seen as Barrier To Climbing Class Ladder 
 ATLANTA - Stacey Calvin spends almost as much time commuting to her job - on a bus, two trains and another bus - as she does working part-time at a day care center. 
 "It's a science you just have to perfect over time," said Ms. Calvin, 37. 

 Her nearly four-hour round-trip stems largely from the economic geography of Atlanta, which is one of America's most affluent metropolitan areas yet also one of the most physically divided by income. The low-income neighborhoods here often stretch for miles, with rows of houses and low-slung apartments, interrupted by the occasional strip mall, and lacking much in the way of good-paying jobs. 
This geography appears to play a major role in making Atlanta one of the metropolitan areas where it is most difficult for lower-income households to rise into the middle class and beyond, according to a new study that other researchers are calling the most detailed portrait yet of income mobility in the United States.
 Cries of Betrayal as Detroit Plans to Cut Pensions 
 DETROIT - Gloria Killebrew, 73, worked for the City of Detroit for 22 years and now spends her days caring for her husband, J. D., who has had three heart attacks and multiple kidney operations, the last of which left him needing dialysis three times a week at the Henry Ford Medical Center in Dearborn, Mich. 
Now there is a new worry: Detroit wants to cut the pensions it pays retirees like Ms. Killebrew, who now receives about $1,900 a month.
"It's been life on a roller coaster," Ms. Killebrew said, explaining that even if she could find a new job at her age, there would be no one to take care of her husband. "You don't sleep well. You think about whether you're going to be able to make it. Right now, you don't really know."
Detroit's pension shortfall accounts for about $3.5 billion of the $18 billion in debts that led the city to file for bankruptcy last week. How it handles this problem - of not enough money set aside to pay the pensions it has promised its workers - is being closely watched by other cities with fiscal troubles.
 Pakistan Battles Polio, and Its People's Mistrust 
 KARACHI, Pakistan - Usman, who limps on a leg bowed by the polio he caught as a child, made sure that his first three children were protected from the disease, but he turned away vaccinators when his youngest was born. 
He was furious that the Central Intelligence Agency, in its hunt for Osama bin Laden, had staged a fake vaccination campaign, and infuriated by American drone strikes, one of which, he said, had struck the son of a man he knew, blowing off his head. He had come to see the war on polio, the longest, most expensive disease eradication effort in history, as a Western plot.
In January, his 2-year-old son, Musharaf, became the first child worldwide to be crippled by polio this year.
"I know now I made a mistake," said Usman, 32, who, like many in his Pashtun tribe, uses only one name. "But you Americans have caused pain in my community. Americans pay for the polio campaign, and that's good. But you abused a humanitarian mission for a military purpose."
Anger like his over American foreign policy has led to a disastrous setback for the global effort against polio. In December, nine vaccinators were shot dead here, and two Taliban commanders banned vaccination in their areas, saying the vaccinations could resume only if drone strikes ended. In January, 10 vaccinators were killed in Nigeria's Muslim-dominated north.
 Change Agent in Education Collects Critics in Connecticut Town 
 BRIDGEPORT, Conn. - Paul G. Vallas, a leader in the effort to shake up American education, has wrestled with unions in Chicago, taken on hurricane-ravaged schools in New Orleans and confronted a crumbling educational system in Haiti. 
Now he faces what may be his most vexing challenge yet: Fending off a small but spirited crowd of advocates working to unseat him as superintendent of one of Connecticut's lowest-performing and highest-poverty school districts.
 
 In a Word 
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
 Perhaps that's why SeaWorld's most well-known show was called "Believe." 
There's a word for "most well," and it's "best." Make this "SeaWorld's best-known show."
 Neither his wife nor Dr. Caselli perceive these difficulties. 
Make it singular: "Neither ... perceives these difficulties."
 If Mr. Xu is held for long, supporters said that his case was likely to attract wider attention as a test of China's beleaguered "rights defense" movement, which he helped build. 
This structure seems to suggest that the opening conditional clause applies to "supporters said," which is not what we meant. Better to set off the attribution: "If Mr. Xu is held for long, supporters said, his case is likely to attract wider attention ..."
 The documents showed that in Bucharest, Romania, test takers clearly copied answers from one anothers' papers, including the mistakes. 
Make it "one another's papers."
 Davis's 37 first-half homers trail only Bonds, who had 39 in 2001. The 37 matches first-half totals by Mark McGwire in 1998 and Reggie Jackson in 1969. 
Odd to treat the 37 as plural in the first sentence and singular in the second. Make it plural throughout, or rephrase the second sentence, e.g. "The total of 37 matches ..."
 As if the package from the publishing house was not enough, there was more available on the Internet. 
Use the subjunctive for this contrary-to-fact condition: "As if the package ... were not enough."
 Baseball's investigators, working on the orders of Selig, have been conducting the aggressive inquiry into the clinic, Biogenesis, an effort that has included the buying of documents and the filing of lawsuits against people close to the clinic. 
Much simpler just to say, "has included buying documents and filing lawsuits ..."
 Staking out new ground in the noisy debate about technology and privacy in law enforcement, the New Jersey Supreme Court on Thursday ordered that the police will now have to get a search warrant before obtaining tracking information from cellphone providers. 
"Ordered" doesn't work in this phrasing; make it "ruled that the police will now have to ..."
 The maneuvering in markets for oil, wheat, cotton, coffee and more have brought billions in profits to investment banks like Goldman, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, while forcing consumers to pay more every time they fill up a gas tank, flick on a light switch, open a beer or buy a cellphone. 
"Maneuvering" is singular: it "has" brought billions in profits, not "have."
 [Subhead] As Diners Are Pampered, Staff Are Overlooked, Former Employees Say 
Make it "staff is overlooked" or "workers are overlooked."
 Mr. de Blasio said he was taken aback by the poor condition of Ms. Wilson's apartment, where a set of mold-covered cabinets lays on the floor of the kitchen, two years after a flood, despite her repeated requests for repairs. 
Lies, not lays. This was later changed online.
 The show follows Violet's pilgrimage by Greyhound bus from Spruce Pine, N.C., a small town in the Blue Ridge Mountains, to the Tulsa, Okla., headquarters of a televangelist whom she naïvely believes will heal her. 
Who, not whom; it's the subject of "will heal."
 There have been countless bon mots written over the years about the allure of a town that once a year puts the old, beautiful, often flawed sport of thoroughbred racing front and center. 
The plural in French is "bons mots." Or, of course, we could stick to English.
 Such aggressive behavior in mockingbirds result from perceived threats to their hatchlings, said Glenn Phillips, executive director of New York City Audubon. The incidents should stop any day now as nesting season ends, he said. 
"Aggressive behavior" is singular: in mockingbirds, it "results" from perceived threats, not "result."
 Extremely high levels of radiation in the now roofless upper sections of the No. 3 reactor building destroyed in a hydrogen explosion that rocked the reactor during the early days of the 2011 disaster make it too dangerous for workers to approach. 
At a minimum, readers needed some punctuation to guide them through this overstuffed sentence. Better still, streamline it or break it up.
 On Friday, Mr. McCain first broached Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, with what would be the final deal. 
You broach a subject, but do not broach "with" something. Maybe we meant "approached"?
 Under the deal, struck during late night talks mainly between Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, the Senate allowed a vote on the nomination of Mr. Cordray, but put aside two nominees for the National Labor Relations Board who the president appointed during a Senate recess, Richard Griffin and Sharon Block. But organized labor 
Whom, not who; it's the object of "appointed."

        
Tangled Passages
        
Getting Names Wrong
        
Bright Passages
        
Singular? Plural? Pick One
        
Tangled Passages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); GEOGRAPHY (86%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); CITIES (61%) After Deadline; Grammar

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013



900 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLANIGAN, PETER M

 BODY:
FLANIGAN--Peter M. June 21, 1923 - July 29, 2013. Mr. Flanigan was a Navy carrier pilot in World War II. He graduated Summa Cum Laude from Princeton University in 1947 and joined Dillon, Read & Co. Inc. in the fall of that year. His tenure at Dillon Read was interrupted in 1949 to serve as an economic analyst for the Economic Reconstruction Administration in Britain for two years, returning thereafter to Dillon Read. 
In 1960 Mr. Flanigan served as Executive Director of Volunteers for the Nixon-Lodge Presidential campaign and in 1968 as Deputy Campaign Manager of the Nixon campaign. In 1969 Mr. Flanigan left Dillon Read upon his appointment as Assistant to the President of the United States under President Nixon, with White House responsibility for domestic commercial and economic matters. In 1972 he was also appointed Director of the Council of International Economic Policy, with responsibility for development and coordination of the Administration's international economic policy. Mr. Flanigan returned to Dillon Read as Managing Director at the beginning of 1975 and continued in that capacity until December 1992. In 1984, Peter Flanigan and his wife adopted the second class in the "I Have a Dream" Program, subsequently becoming a Board Member of that program. In 1985, Mr. Flanigan founded The Student Sponsor Partners, a private voucher program which combines tuition support with one-on-one mentoring. S/SP has helped over 5,000 inner-city high school students. Based on comparative graduation rates and college attendance rates, this program has been a dramatic success. In 1987, he started the Patrons Program to encourage individuals to take responsibility for inner-city Catholic grammar schools which were in danger of being closed for financial reasons. Mr. Flanigan was a Board member of St. Ann's School in Harlem, a small grammar school with 315 students. Upon his death, Mr. Flanigan was Board Member of American Federation for Children - Alliance for School Choice, a nation-wide organization to promote legislation to give parents the ability to send their children to the schools, public or private, of their choice. To research and implement new programs to improve education, Mr. Flanigan founded the Center for Education Innovation of The Manhattan Institute. He was a Board member of the Catholic University of America, and previous Chairman of the Board of Portsmouth Abbey School. Mr. Flanigan was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the John M. Olin Foundation, Inc. and a member of the Board of the Richard M. Nixon Library & Birthplace. In 1954, Mr. Flanigan married Brigid Snow, daughter of the legendary Carmel Snow who was founding editor of Harpers Bazaar, a position she held for 23 years, and grand niece of the equally legendary Bishop McQuade of Dublin, known to his flock as the Holy Terror. His wife, Brigid, passed away in 2006. Brigid and Peter's five children include Sister Louise Marie of the Sister Servants of the Eternal Word. His other children, Brigid, Tim, Megan and Bob are the parents of Peter's 16 grandchildren. Five years ago, Peter was blessed by his marriage to Dorothea von Oswald. He lived half of the year in Austria with Dorothea and her five daughters Maido, Theresa, Mariella, Sophie and Nina. The von Oswald family warmly embraced their new father and grandfather. Peter's great loves in life were his family, his Roman Catholic faith, and his country. Friends may visit at 220 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, NY, from 4:30pm to 8pm on Sunday, August 4. A Mass of Christian Burial will be said at the Church of the Resurrection, 910 Boston Post Rd, Rye, NY, at 10am on Monday, August 5. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to the Student Sponsor Partners at www.SSPNYC.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (70%); SCHOOL CHOICE (70%); LIBRARIES (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: DILLON READ & CO INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



901 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Million Denied Bank Accounts For Past Errors

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Mistakes like a bounced check or a small overdraft have effectively blacklisted more than a million low-income Americans from the mainstream financial system for as long as seven years as a result of little-known private databases that are used by the nation's major banks.
The problem is contributing to the growth of the roughly 10 million households in the United States that lack a banking account, a basic requirement of modern economic life.
Unlike traditional credit reporting databases, which provide portraits of outstanding debt and payment histories, these are records of transgressions in banking products. Institutions like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo say that tapping into the vast repositories of information helps them weed out risky customers and combat fraud -- a mounting threat for banks. 
But consumer advocates and state authorities say the use of the databases disproportionately affects lower-income Americans, who tend to live paycheck to paycheck, making them more likely to incur negative marks after relatively minor banking missteps like overdrawing accounts, amassing fees or bouncing checks.
When the databases were created more than 20 years ago, they were intended to help banks guard against serial fraud artists, like those accused of writing bogus checks. Since then, though, the databases have ensnared millions of low-income Americans, according to interviews with financial counselors, consumer lawyers and more than two dozen low-income people in California, Illinois, Florida, New York and Washington.
Jonathan Mintz, the commissioner of the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs, says banks' growing reliance on customer databases has frustrated efforts to help an estimated 825,000 New Yorkers without bank accounts gain access to the mainstream financial system.
''Hundreds of thousands of Americans are being shut out for relatively small mistakes,'' Mr. Mintz said.
As a result, many have no choice but to turn to costly fringe operations to cash checks, pay bills and wire money. Saving for the future, financial counselors say, can be especially difficult.
The ranks of those without bank accounts have swelled -- up more than 10 percent since 2009, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation -- as banks have sharpened their focus on more affluent customers who typically generate twice the revenue of their lower-income counterparts. Many banks are closing branches in poor areas and expanding in wealthier ones, according to an analysis of federal data.
Rejection for would-be bank customers can come as a shock. Tiffany Murrell of Brooklyn says a credit union denied her checking account application in September 2012 even though she had a job as a secretary and was up to date on her bills.
The obstacle, it turned out, was a negative report from ChexSystems, a consumer credit reporting firm that provides customer data to virtually every major bank and credit union in the nation. The black mark stemmed from a overdraft of roughly $40 in June 2010, according to a copy of a letter that the 31-year-old Ms. Murrell later received from ChexSystems. While she repaid the amount, plus interest and fees, before applying for a new account, the incident, she says, has barred her from opening an account at nearly every bank she has tried, an experience she called ''insulting and frustrating.''
While many Americans have at least a vague idea that their credit report is crucial when applying for a loan, few realize that a parallel report is used for bank accounts.
''Most of my clients have no idea these databases exist, let alone what they did to end up in them,'' said Kristen Euretig, a financial counselor with Neighborhood Trust Financial Partners, a nonprofit group in New York.
The largest database, founded in the 1970s, is run by ChexSystems, a subsidiary of FIS, a financial services company in Jacksonville, Fla. Subscribers -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citibank and Wells Fargo among them -- ''regularly contribute information on mishandled checking and savings accounts,'' ChexSystems says on its Web site. ''A consumer may dispute any information in their file and ChexSystems will facilitate the resolution of the dispute on the consumer's behalf,'' the company said in a statement. A rival, Early Warning, which is owned by Bank of America, BB&T, Capital One, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, says roughly 80 percent of the 50 largest American banks pay a fee to subscribe to its deposit-check service.
''Client banks are focused on leveraging intelligence to mitigate fraud from going into the system,'' said Frank Caruana, the company's chief marketing officer.
But the databases are coming under scrutiny from consumer lawyers and federal regulators, who say it can be challenging to remove inaccurate information or get copies of the reports, a requirement under federal law.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has fielded complaints about the databases and is determining whether they comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a federal law meant to stanch the flow of inaccurate consumer information, according to people familiar with the investigation. Banks are required to provide a reason for rejecting an applicant.
Some databases, though, provide scant details of the reason for the negative mark, according to a review of more two dozen letters. Mr. Caruana of Early Warning says the company gives the fine details to its clients, outlining, for example, how much of outstanding debt is principal and how much is fees.
Culling information from the databases is one prong in an assessment, as lenders vet potential customers and screen for fraud. Losses from fraud on new bank accounts surged to $9.8 billion last year, up 50 percent from a year earlier, according to Javelin Strategy and Research.
JPMorgan says a negative report in ChexSystems will rarely bar someone from obtaining an account. Others, like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo, say they use the information carefully, distinguishing between people who have made mistakes and those who have a history of fraud. Some banks have introduced second-chance checking accounts for people who do not qualify for traditional bank accounts.
Ultimately, Mr. Caruana said, the decision rests with the banks. He noted the soundness of the reports -- of the 50 million the company issued last year, only 3,600 were disputed for inaccuracy. And banks and credit unions say that they work to ensure that customers are not penalized for minor mistakes.
Yet the interviews with officials, consumer advocates and the people denied accounts offer a starkly different picture.
''We have had too many experiences where even banks that have offered to be flexible with us find their own internal risk management systems mean that their hands are tied,'' said Mr. Mintz, New York's commissioner of consumer affairs.
The problem, said Jerry DeGrieck, a senior policy adviser to Mayor Mike McGinn of Seattle, is that ''lenders just don't want to take a risk on these clients.''
Recent regulations, which rein in the fees that banks can charge -- including overdraft protection, a big moneymaker on lower-income customers' accounts -- have made lenders more reluctant to take gambles on customers with tarnished records, analysts say. Simply put, it is less economical for banks to provide inexpensive financial services and it is tougher for banks to generate revenue on lower-income customers who typically maintain small account balances. Still, banks say they are committed to provide banking services broadly.
The sting of being rejected, though, can make lower-income individuals feel like second-class citizens.
''I just don't understand why they wouldn't want me,'' said Ms. Murrell, the Brooklyn secretary. ''It feels unfair.''
The costs of not having a bank account for seven years -- the longest amount of time that a negative report remains in the databases -- can quickly add up. David Korzeniowski, 23, said an employee at a bank in Lansing, Mich., had told him that an overdrawn account reported to ChexSystems very likely scuttled his chances of a checking account until 2016.
Mr. Korzeniowski, who acknowledges ''he made a mistake,'' says the fees he pays for cashing checks, paying bills and wiring money cannibalize the paycheck he gets from part-time construction work. ''Everything is more expensive,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tiffany Murrell, who had a $40 overdraft in 2010, was rejected repeatedly for an account. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



902 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Once Just a Punch Line, Buffalo Fights Back

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
BUFFALO -- When he was recruited to help turn 120 acres of this city's underperforming downtown into a jobs-producing campus for medical research, education and clinical care, Matt Enstice was among the few who did not consider the plan a joke.
And Mr. Enstice knows jokes. Before he returned to his hometown, where he became president and chief executive of the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus, the nonprofit group overseeing the development, Mr. Enstice spent five years in New York in the late 1990s helping Lorne Michaels produce ''Saturday Night Live.''
Mr. Enstice, who turns 40 next month, also knows Buffalo, a recovering Great Lakes city that peaked in population and prosperity 60 years ago.
''When I came back, it felt different than when I left,'' Mr. Enstice said. ''I'm an optimist by nature. People my age were returning to the city. I could see the potential for what's happened.'' 
On a bright summer morning, Mr. Enstice bounds across a medical campus that has huffed and growled with construction for a decade, and never more intensely than this year. Work just started on a $100 million, 287,000-square-foot medical office building. Two blocks away, excavators prepare the site of the $243 million, 410,000-square-foot Women and Children's Hospital.
In the fall, construction starts on two more buildings: the $375 million, 500,000-square-foot State University of New York at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; and the $40 million, 142,000-square foot Roswell Park Cancer Institute. The four buildings, which total 1.34 million square feet and a $758 million investment, are to be completed over the next three years.
Leveraging the medical research and education campus as an economic development strategy was the brainchild of the previous mayor, Anthony M. Masiello. His successor, Mayor Byron W. Brown, directed his economic development aides to support the project with city funds, fast-track permits, and business and professional recruitment.
Brendan R. Mehaffy, the executive director of the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning, said the Buffalo Niagara campus was encouraging the construction of new hotels, retail space and luxury residential development. Home prices in the neighborhoods closest to the campus have risen 15 percent in the last two years, according to the city's latest real estate figures.
''There's been a decade of focused work here to redevelop the city,'' said Mr. Mehaffy. ''You can see the results now really coming out of the ground. We have $1.7 billion in projects either announced this year or under construction in Buffalo. We haven't experienced anything like this kind of interest and investment in generations. I grew up in one of our suburbs. I can tell you, it's amazing to see this transition in downtown.''
Almost half of those projects are part of the medical campus, which is bordered east to west by Main Street and Michigan Avenue, and north to south by North and Goodell Streets. A decade ago, the parcel was a smattering of shuttered brick warehouses and manufacturing buildings, weed-scattered parking lots and deteriorated turn-of-the-20th-century housing. It was, in short, 20 square blocks that fit right in to the rest of Buffalo.
In 2006, the campus's first new building -- the $24 million Hauptman-Woodward Research Institute for structural biology -- was finished, with 73,000 square feet. Last year, three more projects were completed: a $291 million research and clinical care building that houses the Gates Vascular Institute and the State University of New York at Buffalo's Clinical and Translational Research Center (475,000 square feet in 10 stories); the $64 million 300-bed HighPointe on Michigan skilled nursing center (202,000 square feet); and a $37 million, 2,000-space parking deck.
The Medical Campus now employs 12,000 people, with possibly thousands more once another phase of development is finished about four years from now.
It has been a long time since people felt anything about Buffalo's downtown other than dismay. The city, which dates to a frontier outpost in 1789, opened a 125-year period of industrial expansion and population growth in 1825 with the completion of the Erie Canal. The channel, 40 feet wide and four feet deep, linked the Hudson River with Lake Erie and made Buffalo a hub of manufacturing and commodities transport.
The city's economy, and the development of thriving arts and cultural institutions, was considerably strengthened after engineers opened the world's first hydroelectric power plant at nearby Niagara Falls in 1895. By 1950, Buffalo was home to 580,000 residents, the highest its population ever reached.
The final decades of the last century left the city at its bleakest, with huge job losses, residential migration to the suburbs and stubbornly high rates of poverty, even as city leaders and residents tried to reverse the decline.
In 1985, for instance, Buffalo completed a light rail transit line that originally had 15 stations and runs 6.4 miles between the city's harbor and the Buffalo Sabres' ice arena, and the south campus of SUNY at Buffalo. The last 1.2 miles of the transit line, which cost $535 million then, run above ground along the Main Street pedestrian mall that was established in 1986, a year after the rail system opened.
Neither the mall nor the transit line could forestall the population losses, which averaged 5,300 residents a year. (The city is rebuilding Main Street to restore vehicular traffic.)
The Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus embraced a strategy adopted by other postindustrial cities, embarking on projects in clumps rather than in larger endeavors. Buffalo's Larkin District, named for a soap manufacturer in the city's southeast, provides another example.
Howard A. Zemsky, who spent much of his career as an executive with Russer Foods, one of the country's largest processors of delicatessen meats, before he became a prominent developer here, converted an old warehouse to commercial office space. Since then, he has purchased and renovated four more buildings nearby, one of which serves as headquarters for First Niagara Bank.
Mr. Zemsky, the principal of Larkin Development Group, also built Larkin Square, a collection of restaurants and covered outdoor seating areas and event stages at the intersection of Swan and Seneca Streets that has quickly become a popular gathering place. The total investment for 685,000 square feet was $50 million, he said.
Mr. Zemsky's work attracted the attention of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who appointed him co-chairman of the Western New York Regional Economic Development Council, one of nine such regional groups. Last year, the state committed $1 billion in tax incentives and grants for Buffalo's development, spending supervised by the council that Mr. Zemsky heads with Satish K. Tripathi, president of the University at Buffalo.
The first investment under the ''Billion for Buffalo'' program is a grant to spend $15 million to build a new 40,000-square-foot laboratory at the medical campus, and $35 million more to equip it for high-tech companies, among them the Albany Molecular Research Institute, a contract pharmaceutical and biotechnology research and manufacturing company that Mr. Enstice helped to recruit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A waterfront grain elevator, top, monument to Buffalo's industrial past, forms a backdrop for a dancing class. The future rises nearby, in a building on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN CAPPELLAZZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RESEARCH (91%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); BIOMEDICINE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CANCER (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (66%); HOME PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



903 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: $250 Million, A Record Gift, Set for College In Kentucky

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Centre College, a small rural college in Danville, Ky., announced Tuesday that it had received the largest outright gift ever made to a liberal arts college: $250 million, in stock from the A. Eugene Brockman Charitable Trust. 
The gift will be used to create 160 Brockman scholarships -- 40 a year starting in the fall of 2014 -- for students planning to major in natural sciences, computational sciences or economics. The scholarships will pay for tuition, room and board, and also give the winners, chosen on the basis of merit, support for study abroad, summer research and internships.
With 1,370 students, about half from Kentucky, Centre is known for its extensive study abroad programs, the quality of its teaching, its high level of alumni giving -- and for hosting last October's vice-presidential debate
A. Eugene Brockman, who died in 1986, was connected to Centre only through his son, Robert T. Brockman, who attended the college for two years before transferring to the University of Florida to pursue business administration.
Though he did not graduate, the younger Mr. Brockman, the chief executive of Reynolds & Reynolds, a car dealer support company in Dayton, Ohio, has been a strong supporter of the college, serving as chairman of its board from 2008 until June 30. Three years ago, the Brockman trust made a $19.5 million gift to Centre for student residences.
Students chosen for the Brockman Scholars Program in Leadership and Entrepreneurship will be able to major in behavioral neuroscience, biology, biochemistry and molecular biology, chemistry, chemical physics, computer science, economics, financial economics, mathematics, physics or psychology.
According to Richard Trollinger, the vice president for college relations, about 60 percent of Centre's students already major in these fields.
''The vision for this gift is to enable Centre to attract highly qualified students who become 'job creators' as they devote entrepreneurial thinking to society's needs, thereby stimulating economic growth,'' he said.
Two-thirds of Centre's students receive need-based aid, Mr. Trollinger said, and about 90 percent receive some aid. Tuition, room and board at the college will be $45,100 this year.
''The whole system of financing American higher ed is broken, and money for student aid has been our biggest need,'' he said. ''I pitched this idea of Brockman scholars June 1, and it's moved very fast since then.''
In recent years, the philanthropic focus on student aid has been growing.
''There's increasing appeal for donors to contribute to scholarships, I think largely because of the attention being paid to college costs, and student debt,'' said John Lippincott, president of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); PHYSICS (75%); CHEMISTRY (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ALUMNI (73%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); BIOCHEMISTRY (69%); JOB CREATION (62%)

COMPANY: REYNOLDS & REYNOLDS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC2761 MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



904 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: The Roast Of the Town

BYLINE: By OLIVER STRAND

 BODY:
Usually, a coffee roaster starts small. Whether it's with an industry giant like Starbucks, or a cult company like Heart Roasters, the trajectory is the same: the roasting grows at the same pace as the company.
By this standard, Joe and Ninth Street Espresso are doing it backward. The companies, which have devoted followings, are two of the most important players in New York's independent coffee scene. Joe has 10 locations (including two in Philadelphia); Ninth Street Espresso has 4.
But neither roasted its own beans, choosing instead to supply the shops over the years with roasts from innovators like Counter Culture Coffee, Intelligentsia Coffee and Stumptown Coffee Roasters. 
As of this month, that has changed. Both Joe and Ninth Street Espresso have joined the Pulley Collective, a new coffee-roasting plant on the Brooklyn waterfront that members rent out by the half-day. It is less like a community kitchen or a woodworking cooperative than the Electric Lady Studios of coffee: a tricked-out operation that takes care of all the details.
The Pulley Collective is on the ground floor of a 19th-century warehouse in Red Hook, in a 6,500-square-foot space that looks as if it could be a nightclub or a beer hall. There are two coffee roasters, a vintage Deidrich with a cast-iron drum and a new Loring SmartRoast, a technologically advanced roaster with a list price of $135,000. There is a quality-control laboratory and a cupping area. A shipping container inside the warehouse is being converted into a barista classroom.
The project was dreamed up by Steve Mierisch, a boyish 37-year-old whose family has been farming coffee in Nicaragua since 1908. He worked for Intelligentsia Coffee until last year, and he established the Pulley Collective to be more than time sharing. ''I wanted to create a place that will be become an incubator,'' said Mr. Mierisch, who sees it as a training ground for a new generation of coffee roasters. ''It allows entry at a fraction of the cost at every level. It makes experimentation affordable.''
It takes deep pockets to roast in New York. An artisanal operation might cost anywhere from $300,000 to $1 million to open in the city. A basic membership in the Pulley Collective, which includes the use of all of the equipment, is $850 a week.
The reasons for joining aren't just economic. ''Rather than thinking, 'This is the rent,' we look at this as a groundbreaking new community,'' said Jonathan Rubinstein, who started Joe with his sister, Gabrielle, in 2003.
It's also a response to loftier expectations. Not long ago, it was exciting to find a well-made espresso in New York; today, demanding customers want to taste something unique. According to Mr. Rubinstein, it's no longer enough to order from the catalog of an established roaster and use the same coffee that everybody else buys. By roasting, Joe, Ninth Street Espresso and the other Pulley Collective members can take control of another link in the coffee-supply chain.
Joe is now buying green coffee beans directly from importers and, in some cases, farmers. Ed Kaufmann, the head roaster for Joe, expects to go through more than 225,000 pounds of green coffee in the next 12 months. It's a fraction of the 2.7 million pounds that Intelligentsia roasts, and a rounding error for the industrial roasters that go through hundreds of millions of pounds a year, but it's an impressive debut.
For Ninth Street Espresso and Joe, the Pulley Collective is a scaled-up roaster without any of the logistical headaches that would come with opening such a space in New York. They didn't have to secure the site, hire a contractor or worry about the duct work.
For Dillon Edwards, who opened Parlor Coffee last year, the allure of the Pulley Collective is the affordable price.
Parlor Coffee might be the smallest espresso bar in New York. Located inside Persons of Interest, a barbershop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the espresso machine shares a back room with a display of hair-care products.
Originally a barista for Stumptown Coffee Roasters in Portland, Ore., Mr. Edwards moved to New York to help open the company's coffee bar at the Ace Hotel. He went to Bonanza Coffee Roasters in Berlin before returning to New York to work at Blue Bottle Coffee, where he became the lead barista. It's a path you'd expect in the restaurant industry, where line cooks move from one hotshot kitchen to another until the time is right to go out on their own. Increasingly, that's happening in coffee.
Mr. Edwards, who was roasting on a small machine before joining the Pulley Collective, plans to build his own facility close to the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Until then, he's taking advantage of the equipment in Red Hook.
He's also taking advantage of being in the company of fellow roasters. Roasting can be a lonely business, with early mornings and long days spent standing next to a loud machine that needs to be monitored. ''Being around others gives you a sense of, 'We have to perform,' '' Mr. Edwards said. ''It's an energy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Mierisch, right, owns the Pulley Collective, a roaster in Brooklyn being used by coffee professionals like Ed Kaufmann, left, the head roaster for Joe.
 Mr. Mierisch, above, charges coffee shops $850 a week for membership in the Pulley Collective. Top, a bag of his family's beans from Nicaragua. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE (90%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (90%); COFFEE FARMING (73%); FAMILY FARMS (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NICARAGUA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



905 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Tumble

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
Updated, 5:12 a.m. |
FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Bank, Europe's largest investment bank, said on Tuesday that net profit fell by half in the second quarter as it earned fewer fees from financial market trading and absorbed costs related to lawsuits.
Responding to criticism that it is overly dependent on borrowed money, the bank also announced plans to shrink its total financial holdings to reduce risk and address demands by regulators that lenders increase their ability to absorb losses. 
The results showed that Deutsche Bank, like many of its peers, was still hampered by the aftereffects of the financial crisis as well as continued turmoil in securities market. In addition, banks face growing momentum for rules that would curtail their use of leverage, or borrowed money.
''The current quarter performance was significantly impacted by an uncertain macroeconomic backdrop which resulted in elevated market volatility and a broad sell-off across asset classes toward the end of the quarter,'' Deutsche Bank said in a statement.
Much of the turmoil was the result of investor fears about a slowdown in China and nervousness about how quickly the United States Federal Reserve will withdraw its economic stimulus measures, Stefan Krause, Deutsche Bank's chief financial officer, told analysts during a conference call.
Net profit fell to 335 million euros ($444 million) from 666 million in the second quarter of 2012, Deutsche Bank said. Revenue rose 2 percent in the quarter, but the gain was offset by additional expenses, including the cost of legal proceedings.
The bank faces numerous lawsuits, including some from aggrieved investors who bought investments related to the American real estate market before the subprime crisis in 2008. Deutsche Bank said on Tuesday that it had increased the money set aside for litigation expenses by 630 million euros, bringing the total to about 3 billion euros.
Deutsche Bank said it would shrink the size of its assets, the sum of its financial holdings, by 16 percent, or 250 billion euros, by the end of next year. The bank has been hurt by the perception, which it disputes, that it is one of the most-leveraged big lenders in the world. Reducing total assets is one way for the bank to address the criticism.
Leverage, the use of borrowed money to make investments, was the main theme during a conference call between Deutsche Bank's top management and analysts on Tuesday morning. ''Regulators, politicians and analysts have shifted their attention to leverage in the last few months,'' Mr. Krause acknowledged.
Deutsche Bank said it had increased its so-called Core Tier 1 capital ratio, one measure of a bank's ability to absorb losses, to 10 percent at the end of June from 8.8 percent at the end of March, based on the latest regulatory standards.
The bank said its leverage ratio, the proportion of its own cash or shares to borrowed money, was 3 percent. Many economists consider the leverage ratio to be a better measure of a bank's resiliency than the capital ratio; regulators in the United States are in the process of raising the required leverage ratio for the largest banks to 6 percent.
The ratio, however, depends partly on how banks value their assets. Under some of the latest proposals from regulators, which would restrict banks' ability to use accounting rules to reduce reported assets, Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio would be under 3 percent, Mr. Krause indicated in response to analyst questions.
In a statement, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, co-chief executives of the bank, said they were ''committed to further reducing the balance sheet in a manner that enables us to meet requirements on leverage ratio, sustain our value proposition to clients and strengthen our business model without materially impacting financial performance.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); EURO (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



906 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Plan Aims to Enliven Paris's Financial District, Long Called Soulless

BYLINE: By GEORGI KANTCHEV; Catherine Chapman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- On Bastille Day 1989, when President François Mitterrand inaugurated the Grande Arche, a 40-story postmodern bookend about three miles to the west of the Arc de Triomphe, it seemed its own form of triumph.
The ceremony celebrated a decade-long building boom at La Défense, the sprawling array of office buildings long envisioned as Paris's answer to Lower Manhattan or the City of London.
But La Défense, begun during the presidency of Charles de Gaulle in the late 1950s and built just west of Paris by bulldozing slums and paving over farmland, has always worked better in architectural theory than in anthropological practice.
Rather than the Parisian business hub its founders described, it often seems more like the isolated end of a spoke that has highlighted a crucial flaw in urban planning -- a concern with making architectural statements -- rather than an affinity for the people in and around the buildings. 
When non-French planning experts assess La Défense, they say it shares the same problems as the Canary Wharf complex in London, where developers have tried to supplant the City with Big Architecture and whose artificial origins may be hard to overcome. The experts look more favorably on the somewhat organic mix of business and residential of Lower Manhattan, which has evolved over the last century.
''La Défense has always suffered from a creative hypothermia,'' said Wojciech Czaja, an Austrian architecture critic. ''It is a sad area because it is atmospherically and emotionally perceived as a business district only.''
The public agency that manages the complex has hired an architectural firm to draft a new master plan in hopes of making the grandiose vision for La Défense a livable reality. It is difficult to determine whether the plan can withstand the headwinds of Europe's continuing financial woes, and France's lingering recession and an unemployment rate near 11 percent.
But it would be wrong to call La Défense a business failure, because it is home to 1,500 head offices, including those of 15 of the world's 50 largest companies. French corporations with their signature headquarters here include the oil and gas giant Total, the big bank Société Générale and Areva, a leading builder of nuclear power plants. And developers continue to build.
Critics have long derided the mixed commercial, residential and retailing complex, which covers 1.6 square kilometers, or 0.62 square miles, as dehumanizing. While about 20,000 mainly low- and middle-income people live here, the vast central plaza can feel like a ghost town after 5 p.m. and on weekends, once most of the district's 150,000 office workers have left by train, bus or subway to more desirable parts of Paris or its less surreal suburbs.
''There is nothing good about living here,'' said Carlin Pierre, 54, who works at a waste disposal center in the district and resides in one of the Brutalist communal, rent-subsidized housing blocks tucked amid the high-rise office buildings. ''Sure, it's a nice area to come as a tourist, or even to work,'' Mr. Pierre said, ''but it's terrible to live in La Défense.''
Alessandra Cianchetta, a partner at AWP, the firm mapping the master plan, acknowledges the enormousness of her task. ''La Défense as a concept is a bit obsolete,'' Ms. Cianchetta said. ''There is no interaction, no hospitality here.''
Vacancy rates at La Défense, long an up-and-down indicator of the French economy, are once more on the rise. Next to the Grande Arche is the site of what was to be a 71-story office tower, Tour Signal, commissioned with much fanfare in 2008 to the French architect Jean Nouvel. It has been canceled.
Still, three new, architecturally ambitious office towers are under construction at La Défense. And the recently financed Hermitage Plaza project on the Seine River at the easternmost edge of La Défense, if it opens as planned in 2018, will include Europe's tallest residential building. Some of the continued activity, of course, has to do with the long lag between conceiving a commercial real estate project and getting it built -- a speculative roll of the dice that has paid little heed to shorter-term considerations like France and Europe's current economic travails.
''La Défense's ambitions to create a new kind of urbanism have been disappointing,'' said Robert A. M. Stern, the dean of the Yale School of Architecture and principal of his namesake firm.
Because ''the residential areas are too isolated in their own zones,'' Mr. Stern said, it is rare to spot locals buying groceries in one of the complex's shopping malls or to see families with strollers on the weekends.
A confined office area can work in some big American cities, but mostly because they are connected to the surrounding neighborhoods. Lower Manhattan ''has residential areas right at its edge with streets threaded through to the city itself,'' Mr. Stern said.
Despite these misgivings, Mr. Stern's firm was willing to take the commission to design Tour Carpe Diem, a tower under construction in a dense cluster of high-rises on the northern edge of the district.
''Carpe Diem is not just another aloof, objectlike office building sitting on a podium,'' Mr. Stern said. ''It is a dual-oriented piece of connective tissue linking the center of La Defénse with the peripheral roads of Courbevoie,'' a middle-class municipality.
In any case, there are no tenants yet signed for Carpe Diem, which is to be completed in September.
A defining feature of La Défense is the plaza, a pedestrian slab of some 30 hectares, or 74 acres, that acts as a roof to underground shops, a bus terminal and a hangarlike train and subway depot with none of the charm of most Paris train stations.
Those who pass through each day, but live elsewhere, often make their peace with La Défense.
The master plan of AWP calls for a complete makeover of the transportation center, adding entertainment sites to the public plaza and building footbridges to connect the now largely isolated slab with the surrounding neighborhoods.
There are new business districts on the competitive metropolitan Paris office market that real estate agents say are luring companies with lower prices -- for example, areas in the north along the Seine and in the so-called inner rim of Paris, which includes the district of Saint-Denis, home of France's national stadium, the Stade de France.
Société Générale, which has 20,000 employees at its La Défense headquarters, plans to transfer several thousand people to the eastern Paris suburb Fontenay-sous-Bois, where it is building a new business campus.
''A lot of the towers in La Défense are going to empty out as companies look to rationalize their usage of office space,'' said Alexis Motte, chief executive of Mobilitis, a real estate advisory agency. ''The market in La Défense is clearly oversupplied.''
The vacancy rate in La Défense stands at 7.5 percent, compared with 3.3 percent in the second quarter of 2008.
The Tour Eqho, a semicylindrical glass tower that formerly housed the French headquarters of I.B.M., is undergoing a top-to-bottom renovation by its developer, Icade. But so far, Icade is struggling to find enough tenants for its reopening later this year, people involved in the market say. Icade declined to comment.
But some developers evidently think eventual success is simply a matter of timing. Consider Hermitage Plaza, a project featuring a pair of towers planned for the western bank of the Seine and designed by the British architect Norman Foster.
''The idea is to create a Manhattan in the French style in La Défense,'' said Emin Iskenderov, a Russian developer who secured a loan this year from Sberbank, which is based in Moscow, to build the towers.
The complex will be only a short walk from one of La Défense's two subway stations. And it is near the Pont de Neuilly, a bridge that pedestrians can cross the river to reach the upscale Paris suburb Neuilly-sur-Seine.
It might feel more like part of Paris, in other words, than most of the rest of La Defénse does.
''La Défense,'' said Ms. Cianchetta, the master planner, ''is like an iceberg that is disconnected from the areas around it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Grande Arche in La Défense, the business hub in Paris, which critics say has become an isolated end of a spoke that is disconnected from the rest of the city. (B1)
La Défense can feel like a ghost town after 5 p.m. and on weekends, once the district's office workers have left.
 A building site near the Grande Arche in La Défense, where three new, architecturally ambitious office towers are under construction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASTILLE DAY (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); AREVA SA (52%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); AREVA (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (52%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (72%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



907 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Jumped 12.2% in May

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Home prices jumped 12.2 percent in May compared with a year earlier, the biggest annual gain since March 2006. The increase shows the housing recovery is strengthening. 
The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city home price index released on Tuesday also surged 2.4 percent in May from April. The month-over-month gain nearly matched the 2.6 percent increase in April from March -- the highest on record.
The price increases were widespread. All 20 cities showed gains in May from April and compared with a year earlier.
Prices in Dallas and Denver reached the highest level on records dating to 2000. That is the first time since the housing bust that any city has reached a record high.
A separate report issued on Tuesday showed that Americans' confidence in the economy fell only slightly in July but stayed close to a five-and-a-half-year high, a sign that consumers should continue to help drive growth in the coming months.
Home values are rising as more people are bidding on a relatively tight supply of houses for sale. One concern is that rising mortgage rates could slow home sales. But many economists say rates remain low by historical standards and would need to rise much faster to halt the momentum.
Svenja Gudell, senior economist at Zillow, a home price data provider, said a big reason for the recent price gains was that foreclosed homes made up a smaller proportion of overall sales. Foreclosed homes are usually sold by banks at low prices.
''Typical home values have appreciated at roughly half this pace for the past several months, which is still very robust,'' Ms. Gudell said.
Ms. Gudell said higher mortgage rates and a probable increase in the number of homes for sale in the coming months should slow the pace of price gains and stabilize the housing market.
The S.& P./Case-Shiller index covers about half of American homes. It measures prices compared with those in January 2000 and creates a three-month moving average. The May figures are the latest available.
Despite the recent gains, home prices for much of the country are still about 25 percent below the peaks they reached in July 2006. That is a major reason the supply of homes for sale remains low, as many homeowners are waiting to recoup their losses before putting their houses on the market.
Separately, the Conference Board, a private research group based in New York, said on Tuesday that its consumer confidence index dipped to 80.3 in July. That is down from a reading of 82.1 in June, which was revised slightly higher and was the best reading since January 2008.
Despite the slight drop in July, confidence remains well above year-earlier levels. And consumers are more optimistic about the current job market.
''Over all, indications are that the economy is strengthening and may even gain some momentum in the months ahead,'' said Lynn Franco, an economist for the Conference Board.
Amna Asaf, an economist at Capital Economics, attributed the July drop in confidence to rising gasoline prices. But she said the confidence index remained at a level that was consistent with stronger growth in consumer spending in the July-to-September quarter.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (54%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



908 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: House Republican Proposal Would Cut Food Stamps For 5 Million, Study Finds

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Nearly half a million people who receive food stamps but still do not get enough to eat would lose their eligibility for the program under proposed cuts that are expected to be taken up again by Congress. An additional 160,000 to 305,000 recipients who do get enough to eat would also lose their eligibility and the ability to adequately feed themselves.
In total, about 5.1 million people would be eliminated from the program, according to a new report. 
The Health Impact Project, a Washington research group, released a study on Tuesday about the impact of the proposed cuts to the food stamp program. The project is a collaboration between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Pew Charitable Trusts.
The report said the cuts to the program, also known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, would not only affect the ability of low-income households to feed themselves but would also increase poverty.
The combination of poverty and a lack of food would lead to increases in illnesses like heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure among adults, the study found. In children, the cuts would lead to higher rates of asthma and depression. Diabetes alone could increase federal and state health care costs by nearly $15 billion over the next 10 years, the report found.
''The SNAP program has implications for health, and we wanted to make sure that health is part of the debate,'' said Dr. Aaron Wernham, the director of the project. ''There is a large body of public health research which shows how food insecurity affects health.''
The report comes as Congress is working to pass a new farm bill. A Senate bill passed in May would cut about $4.5 billion from the food stamp program, mainly by changing the eligibility requirements. A House farm bill with $20.5 billion in cuts to food stamps failed to pass in June.
The House then approved a farm bill this month that for the first time since 1973 did not include the food stamp program. Lawmakers said they would take up a separate bill on food stamps, but they did not give a timetable. The $20.5 billion in cuts is expected to be the starting point for a new measure, and the Health Impact Project used that amount as the basis for its study.
The food stamp program has become a target for conservatives in Congress as it has grown over the past decade. Nearly 48 million people currently receive food stamp benefits, and the program costs about $80 billion a year.
Many Republicans say the program is rife with fraud, with hundreds of ineligible people receiving benefits. The Agriculture Department says that fraud rates are low and that the people who receive the benefits need them because of a tough economy.
''These are the poorest of the poor,'' said Kevin Concannon, under secretary for food, nutrition and consumer services at the Agriculture Department. ''In many cases, these are people who are working who just can't make ends meet.''
People like Christine Tucker, 46, a mother of four in Queens.
Ms. Tucker, who was born in Jamaica and works as a health aide, said she began receiving food stamps in April. ''It's a big help,'' she said. ''If it goes, I don't know what is going to happen. After paying rent and other bills, there is often nothing left for food.''
Dr. Wernham said people like Ms. Tucker were typical of many food stamp recipients.
''It's a trade-off between paying for rent, medicine or food,'' he said. ''Policy makers need to understand what the health impacts are going to be if they make the kinds of changes they are considering to the SNAP program.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A convenience store in Reading, Pa. A study has found that cuts to the food stamp program would lead to increases in illnesses like heart disease, diabetes and high blood pressure among adults and to higher rates of asthma and depression among children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (86%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIABETES (72%); HEART DISEASE (67%); HYPERTENSION (67%); CONSERVATISM (60%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (54%); ASTHMA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



909 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Revenge Of the Mistresses

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Every so often you read a news article so revealing that it triggers this thought: I wonder if we'll look back on that story in five years and say, ''We should have seen this coming. That story was the warning sign.''
For me that article was a July 25 piece in The Washington Post about how jilted mistresses of corrupt Chinese government officials have become the country's most important whistle-blowers -- turning to the Internet to expose the antics of senior bureaucrats. The Post detailed the case of a 26-year-old named Ji Yingnan, who had been engaged to wed Fan Yue -- a deputy director at the State Administration of Archives -- until she discovered that he had been married with a son the entire time they were together. 
To get her revenge, Ji ''has released hundreds of photos online that offer a rare window into the life of a Chinese central government official who -- despite his modest salary -- was apparently able to lavish his mistress'' with no end of luxury items, The Post reported. The first time ''they went shopping, Ji said, the couple went to Prada and paid $10,000 for a skirt, a purse and a scarf. A month after they met, Fan rented an apartment for them that cost $1,500 a month and spent more than $16,000 on bedsheets, home appliances, an Apple desktop and a laptop, according to Ji. Then he bought her a silver Audi A5, priced in the United States at about $40,000, she said. ... 'He put cash into my purse every day,' said Ji in a letter to the Communist Party complaining about Fan's behavior.''
It gets better. The Post reported that ''a well-known Chinese blogger who has posted Ji's photos and videos on his Web site said he spoke with Fan last month. Fan told the blogger that he didn't spend as much money as Ji claims, saying it was less than $1.7 million but more than $500,000. 'This woman is not good. She is too greedy,' the blogger, Zhu Ruifeng, said Fan told him.''
Oh, I see. It was less than $1.7 million. That's good to know! This guy is a senior bureaucrat in the state archives. What sort of illicit activity was he up to in the file rooms to earn that kind of cash? Every government has corruption, including ours. But China's is industrial strength. My colleague David Barboza last year exposed how then Prime Minister Wen Jiabao's mother, son, daughter, younger brother, wife and brother-in-law had collectively amassed $2.7 billion in assets. But when you see how much money a deputy archives director was able to amass -- and how brazenly he spent it -- you start to wonder and worry.
When I visited China in September, I wrote that I heard a new meme from Chinese businesspeople whom I met: ''Make your money and get out.'' More than ever, I heard a lack of confidence in the Chinese economic model. We should hope that China can make a stable transition from one-party Communism to a more consensual, multiparty system -- and a stable diversification of its low-wage, high-export, state-led command economy -- the way South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia and Singapore have done. Its huge savings will help.
The world can ill afford a chaotic transition in China. With America stuck in slow growth, Europe mired in stagnation and the Arab world imploding, China has been a vital economic engine for the global economy. If China's sagging growth and employment rates meet rising discontent with corruption by officials -- trying to get their own while the getting is still good -- we will not have a stable transition in China. And if one-sixth of humanity starts going through an unstable and uncertain political/economic transition, it will shake the world.
It would be great if Chinese reporters, bloggers, citizens' groups and, yes, Internet-empowered mistresses could expose corruption in ways that help make that transition both necessary and possible. But these virtuous civil society actors will only succeed if they find allies in the Communist Party, if they can empower those party cadres who understand the risk to stability, and to their party's future, posed by runaway corruption.
The Ji and Fan story is very entertaining. But if it is just the tip of an iceberg of corruption that destabilizes China, it won't be a laughing matter. How Chinese officials behave or misbehave not only will affect us -- from the value of our currency to the level of our interest rates to the quality of the air we breathe -- it may be the biggest thing that affects us outside of our own government.
There is reason for worry. ''The boldness that Chinese leaders have shown in growing their economy from a backwater into the world's second largest has not been matched, of course, in developing democratic institutions, but more importantly in developing good and honest governance,'' said Jeffrey Bader, President Obama's former senior adviser on China and the author of ''Obama and China's Rise.'' But, if China's leaders don't take on this issue, he added, ''then there will be more corruption, more alienation of ordinary people, and more questions about China's stability. That would be bad news not only for China, but for the United States, whose future is intertwined with China's.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); CORRUPTION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); LUXURY GOODS (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



910 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: America and Russia Can Skip a Reboot

BYLINE: By JOB C. HENNING

 BODY:
One often hears that the United States needs to work on overcoming mistrust and improving relations with Russia, based on purported shared interests. All the while, however, the relationship seems to careen from crisis to crisis, ranging from Syria to Snowden.
The fact is this time any effort to reboot ties with Russia isn't likely to work. Whatever the merits of the ''reset'' effort in 2009, it is not a good idea for Washington to spend time and political capital to once again try to build a strategic partnership. 
First, arms control, which was a key focus of the ''reset'' and is at the center of calls for new efforts to rebuild a relationship. While the United States sees the 2010 New Start treaty as a step toward a zero-nuclear world, the Russian government has shown no interest in further reducing its nuclear capability, especially given its weakening economic prospects and declining conventional forces.
If there are any doubts, note that Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel failed to elicit any positive response from the Kremlin when he announced in March a unilateral decision not to build the fourth and final phase of the European missile defense shield, which was to include long-range interceptors that would have done more than any other part of the program to undermine Russia's strategic deterrent.
As desirable as they may be, President Obama's calls from Berlin last month for further reductions in deployed nuclear weapons and a discussion of limitations on tactical nuclear weapons are likely to fall on deaf ears.
Second, renewed attention to a strategic U.S.-Russia relationship, especially one based on an atavistic platform of great-power arms control, is likely to augment the waning domestic support for Vladimir Putin.
There is no indication Putin has a need to actually reach any deals with the United States; on the contrary, he wins by demonstrating that the United States needs him.
At the same time, trying to reformulate a relationship around criticizing Russia's human-rights record would achieve little other than to empower cynics who see such criticism only as a tool to weaken Russia.
Third, cooperation on Iran is often described as a key benefit of the ''reset'' and a goal of an improved relationship. But Russia supported three rounds of U.N. sanctions on Iran prior to the ''reset,'' in 2006-2008. And over the past several months Russia has been warding off new sanctions as Iran promises to stop enrichment at the 20 percent threshold. At the same time, the Russian-built civilian Bushehr nuclear reactor in Iran has come on line, and in Moscow, Putin welcomed the outgoing Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, to discuss energy exports, space cooperation and joint naval training in the Caspian.
While Russian cooperation on sanctions against Iran is important, it is not the product of a strategic relationship between Russia and the United States, but a tactical calculation by Russia to constrain Iranian power while at the same time ensuring prolonged tension between Iran and the United States.
Fourth, the short-lived spurt in U.S.-Russia counterterrorism coordination after the Boston bombing was more a product of expediency than common interests. It was important for Putin to demonstrate Russia's preparedness in the lead-up to the Sochi Winter Olympics. Apart from a very few instances, Russia's domestic security problems simply have nothing to do with those of the United States.
Fifth, regarding Syria, Russia is solely focused on preserving its port and its trade relationship there, while the United States seeks to end the conflict and stabilize the region through a combination of military assistance and training, possible intervention and negotiations. As the death toll rises above 100,000, Russia is sending advanced anti-ship weapons to Syria and indicates no reluctance to proceed with the delivery of S-300 anti-aircraft missiles systems -- the only purpose of both being to deter potential action by the international community.
The fact that such shipments are not currently prohibited by multilateral sanctions is a failure of strategy and diplomacy -- but also beside the point. Strengthening Bashar al-Assad's ability to shoot down U.S. and allied planes is outrageous by any standard.
Finally, in Georgia, Russian troops continue to occupy the sovereign territory of another state -- a country that last year held free and fair elections that led to a peaceful transfer of power and is making a notable contribution to allied military operations in Afghanistan.
These divergent interests simply will not support a new and productive strategic relationship between the United States and Russia. But sometimes there is nothing wrong with maintaining a tactical, opportunistic relationship. Washington should remain ready to exploit opportunities for cooperation with Putin on issues where interests do happen to overlap.
At the same time, the United States should focus its strategic attention elsewhere. As it settles into its second term, the Obama administration can exercise far-reaching global leadership through a reinvigorated trans-Atlantic alliance, the pivot to Asia, and free trade negotiations in the Pacific and the Atlantic.
Job C. Henning is adjunct senior fellow at the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (91%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



911 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Michael Stern

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Stern, 34, is the managing partner of the JDS Development Group, which specializes in multifamily homes and retail space in the New York area and in South Florida. The company's projects include Walker Tower in Chelsea and Steinway Hall, both of which it is developing with the Property Markets Group.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. How is business?
A. Business is extremely good right now. The market's stronger than we've seen it in a long time coming out of the recession.
Q. Is your focus more on condominiums than rentals these days?
A. We historically have done more condos than rentals. Lately we have a couple of specific projects that are very large rentals, but we've always had a mix of both. I'd say it's around 60-40 condos versus rentals.
Q. How many projects are you working on?
A. Between New York and Florida we have roughly 18 projects in various stages of planning or development.
Q. Mostly in New York.
A. Yes. We're working on four projects in South Florida.
Q. Florida was where you started out in real estate.
A. I built a few hundred units in South Florida in the early 2000s, and I left that market completely. The market kind of disappeared and has made a roaring comeback recently. The oversupply from a few years ago has all been absorbed and it's again a supply-constrained market driven by foreign money, predominantly South American. So we're back for roughly the last 18 months or so.
Q. Do you still have a home in Florida?
A. I have a home in Bal Harbour Village. I also split my time between Long Island and the city.
Q. Let's talk about some of your New York projects, starting with Walker Tower in Chelsea.
A. Walker Tower is almost complete -- we're doing final-punch-list items and removing scaffolding. We expect to be predominantly done with the apartments by the end of September and with the amenities later this year. We only have a handful of units left. We originally started with 55, but we had a number of combinations -- the trend is toward larger apartments -- and we're down to 47.
Q. What kinds of prices have you been getting?
A. The pricing, on average, is above $3,500 a foot -- almost $4,000 a foot.
Q. What's the status of the Steinway Hall development, where a condo and hotel are planned?
A. We just closed on the Steinway building on 57th Street. We had owned the adjacent lot for about two years and we're really excited about the assemblage that we put together there. We are just beginning our design process for that building; we have not yet selected an architect.
Steinway Hall is a beautiful landmark and we're incredibly respectful of that and we're going to design a building that complements the landmark -- very reminiscent of the skyscrapers built in the '20s and '30s.
Q. Tell me about your plans for the property you just bought on First Avenue, between 35th and 36th Streets.
A. We closed on that property in February. There we're going to build two towers -- one tower is 40 stories, the other tower is about 49 stories -- and that'll be roughly 800 apartments, very, very high-end rental.
We just broke ground within the last few weeks, and we expect to be out of the ground and vertical in the first quarter of next year.
The facade of the building is very articulated and very ornamental and it's going to raise the bar for what a rental building is. It'll have an indoor and outdoor pool, a bowling alley, a boxing ring, a gym -- and almost 30,000 feet of indoor amenity space. In addition, we'll have a privately owned public park on the site that we're designing in conjunction with City Planning.
Q. Your partner in that project is the Baupost Group hedge fund, right?
A. We have investors, and I can't comment specifically.
Q. How was it dealing with Sheldon Solow, the reclusive billionaire who sold you the property?
A. I'm the only guy who's ever successfully bought property from him, but I didn't deal with him that much. I dealt with his handlers.
His reputation is that he's difficult, but I found him to be a pleasure to deal with. I didn't have any issue putting this deal together.
Q. What else do you have going on?
A. We actually just completed a few buildings out in the boroughs. We just finished two rental buildings in Brooklyn -- one in Park Slope and one in Williamsburg -- that are almost fully leased up. The one in Park Slope was 51 units, and the one in Williamsburg is 46. We're going to come to market with the Brooklyn buildings soon.
Q. You don't hold onto your buildings for long, do you?
A. We're not long-term holders. We tend to build rental buildings and then sell them. We're looking for returns that are roughly two times multiple of the capital that we invest and the only way to achieve those returns is to sell.
Q. Anything else in the pipeline?
A. We're constantly looking. We have some land holdings in Brooklyn -- in Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope/Gowanus -- that we're going to be looking to develop over time. We have a couple million feet on the West Side that we're going to look to develop over the next five years or so. It could be a mix of uses -- retail, condominium, probably not rentals.
Q. What do you do for fun?
A. I work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (70%)

COMPANY: PROPERTY MARKETS GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



912 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: House Weighs Iran Measure Amid Doubts On Timing

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Legislation that would impose the toughest sanctions to date on Iran over its disputed nuclear program has been scheduled for a vote in the House on Wednesday, four days before the inauguration of that country's newly elected president, a moderate cleric who has made improved relations with the United States an important goal.
The legislation, if enacted into law and fully enforced, could basically eradicate what is left of Iran's diminished oil exports by coercing its remaining customers to find other suppliers. Proponents of the legislation say that with 376 sponsors, it is expected to pass the House easily. It would then move to the Senate for consideration in September. 
But critics say the timing of the House vote has raised sharp questions about the kind of message it would send to Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, before he takes office on Sunday. It has also laid bare a divide over Iran policy between Congress and the Obama administration, which has adopted a somewhat less confrontational approach.
Early this month, just weeks after Mr. Rouhani's victory, the administration received an overture for direct talks with Iran's leaders, and last week, in what was seen as a modest conciliatory gesture, it moved to ease a sanctions provision concerning sales of medical devices to Iran.
''Most people are saying this vote is taking place at the wrong time,'' said Dariush Zahedi, an Iran sanctions expert who is now a political science lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley. ''They should wait and give Rouhani an opportunity to make good on his agenda.''
Megan Whittemore, the press secretary for Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, who is responsible for scheduling votes, said in an e-mail that she expected the debate on the bipartisan legislation to begin on Wednesday, with a vote most likely on Thursday. Others said the vote could be delayed until after the August recess.
Many of the bill's sponsors, who did not anticipate Mr. Rouhani's surprise victory in Iran's election on June 14, were among the 131 lawmakers who signed a letter to President Obama on July 19 urging him to avoid ''actions that delegitimize the newly elected president.''
Some signed a letter circulating among House members on Tuesday asking the House leadership to postpone the vote, at least until after Mr. Rouhani has an opportunity to restart talks on Iran's uranium enrichment program, suspended before the election. Iran contends the enrichment is for peaceful purposes, but much of the world suspects it is meant to achieve the ability to make atomic weapons.
''The question is, why are proponents so adamant on having the vote now?'' said Trita Parsi, the president and founder of the National Iranian American Council, a Washington-based group that opposes sanctions. ''It certainly raises the suspicions they want to explode what opportunity may exist for negotiations.''
Supporters of the legislation argued that the vote's timing would send exactly the type of message that, in their view, is the only one taken seriously by Iranian leaders: a threat that would force them to make a choice between self-preservation and economic catastrophe.
''We're not negotiating with folks who trained at the Harvard Negotiation Project,'' said Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington group that supports stronger sanctions. The legislation's sponsors, he said, ''understand that Iran ''has a negotiation strategy based on brinkmanship.''
Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, who opposes a vote now, was among those circulating the letter to colleagues urging a delay. The Iranians, he said, will interpret the vote as a signal of hostility. ''I'm worried we could strengthen the hand of the hard-liners who don't want to talk,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



913 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Big-Name G.O.P. Donors Urge Members of Congress to Back Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- More than 100 Republican donors -- many of them prominent names in their party's establishment -- sent a letter to Republican members of Congress on Tuesday urging them to support an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws.
The letter, which calls for ''legal status'' for the 11 million immigrants here illegally, begins with a simple appeal: ''We write to urge you to take action to fix our broken immigration system.'' 
The effort was organized by Carlos Gutierrez, who was secretary of commerce under President George W. Bush and was a founder of a ''super PAC,'' Republicans for Immigration Reform. The letter is the beginning of a campaign to lobby Republican lawmakers in favor of a broad immigration bill as they return to their districts for the August break.
''What tends to happen during the month of August is that members go home and they go to town hall meetings and they check up on their offices in terms of phone calls and letters, and that's where they get bombarded,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in a phone interview. ''So Republicans who are for immigration reform -- and I believe there are many -- we need to make our voice known in August.''
A cross-section of Republican donors and fund-raisers signed the letter. They include Karl Rove, a deputy chief of staff in Mr. Bush's White House; former Vice President Dan Quayle; Tom Stemberg, a founder of Staples; and Frank VanderSloot, the founder of Melaleuca Inc.
An overhaul of the immigration laws passed the Senate in June, but members of the Republican majority in the House are uneasy about any bill that would provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here -- as the Senate plan does -- and some Republicans have balked at doing much beyond strengthening security at the border.
The letter argues that a refusal to change the immigration system amounts to ''de facto amnesty,'' and the signers outline three steps that they say are integral to any overhaul.
''To fix our immigration system we need meaningful reforms that will (1) secure our borders, (2) provide a legal way for U.S.-based companies to hire the workers they need while making it impossible to hire workers here illegally, and (3) take control of our undocumented immigration problem by providing a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants who pay penalties and back taxes, pass criminal background checks, and go to the back of the line,'' the letter says.
Mr. VanderSloot, in a phone interview, said he believed that some of the Republican holdouts might support a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants as long as no special treatment is involved.
''I think most Republicans are on board with a path, but they don't want them to go the front of the line,'' Mr. VanderSloot said. ''There should not be a reward for breaking the law. They're O.K. with them having a path to citizenship, but not having an advantage over those who have been waiting in line for a long time legally.''
He added, ''I agree with that, too.''
The letter also says that support of an immigration overhaul is both smart policy and smart politics, and argues that Republicans and immigrants should be natural allies.
''Immigrants are often entrepreneurial, family-minded and guided by faith,'' the letter says. ''These are Republican values. Immigrants play key roles at every level of the American economy. From high-skill workers to seasonal laborers, from big-city neighborhoods to small-town main streets, immigrants help drive our economic growth. These are Republican issues. Republicans ought to be welcoming immigrants and be seen as doing so.''
During the 2012 presidential campaign -- when President Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote -- Mitt Romney alienated many Latinos with his comments that he favored a ''self-deportation'' approach to immigration. Yet many of the Republicans who signed the letter supported or worked for Mr. Romney, including Spencer Zwick, who was his campaign finance director.
Mr. Gutierrez said, ''This is our way of saying there are some Republican leaders who want to see the problem solved.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (87%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: MELALEUCA INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (72%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



914 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Sees Support For Afghans After 2014

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Following reports in recent weeks that the White House is considering a full withdrawal from Afghanistan when the NATO-led mission ends in December 2014, a Pentagon assessment released Tuesday says significant foreign military assistance and financial support for Afghan security forces will be required long after United States troops are expected to depart.
''Beyond then, it will still require substantial training, advising and assistance -- including financial support -- to address ongoing shortcomings,'' said the report, titled ''Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan.'' 
President Obama has ordered American troop levels, which were at 68,000 earlier this year, to be cut in half by February. Negotiations are under way with the Afghan government on a bilateral security agreement, including whether American military personnel will remain after the NATO mandate expires at the end of next year.
The twice-yearly report, required by Congress, covers the period from Oct. 1, 2012, to March 31, 2013; it therefore concludes before the start of the annual fighting season, which begins in earnest with the spring thaw. Like its predecessors, the report presents a grave assessment of the challenges remaining for Afghan security, rule of law and economic prosperity, but it also seeks to identify many silver linings of promise among the dark clouds of war.
''Challenges with the economy and governance will continue to foster uncertainty about the long-term prospects for the country,'' the report states. While the assessment says the Afghan government ''is increasingly able to execute parts of its budget and deliver very basic goods and services,'' it also warns that ''the government has yet to reduce corruption or extend governance to many rural areas effectively.''
The insurgency is again described as ''resilient,'' and the report repeats a complaint heard in Washington and Kabul: that so long as the Taliban can find haven in Pakistan, defeating them on the battlefield will be difficult if not impossible.
But other than advances in a few areas, including northern Helmand Province, the insurgency is struggling to make gains and consolidate them. And as Afghans take over the security mission, the Taliban are denied a favorite propaganda line that they are battling to liberate the country from a foreign occupying force, according to the assessment.
''Taliban territorial influence and control decreased'' last year and through this spring, the report states. ''The enemy is now less capable, less popular and less of an existential threat to the Afghan government than in 2011.''
Even so, ''insurgents maintained influence in many rural areas that serve as platforms to attack urban areas and were able to carry out attacks with roughly the same frequency as in 2012 -- although these attacks tended to be in less populated areas,'' it said.
The capabilities of Afghan security forces ''have greatly increased over the past two years,'' according to the report, an assessment counterbalanced by a statement that domestic security ''has yet to demonstrate the ability to operate independently on a nationwide scale.''
Afghan security forces are taking the lead for almost 90 percent of all military operations, the report states, highlighting that ''the conflict in Afghanistan has shifted into a fundamentally new phase.''
''For the past 11 years, the United States and our coalition partners have led the fight against the Taliban, but now Afghan forces are conducting almost all combat operations,'' the report states.
It also notes a steep increase in casualties among Afghan forces and a concurrent drop in casualties among American and NATO forces. Afghan security forces do struggle with battlefield evacuation of wounded troops and emergency medical care, as well as with recruiting, retention, payroll and logistical operations like providing fuel and ammunition.
Special attention is paid to the number of Afghan units that can operate independently in combat. Although the report's period ended in March, Pentagon officials said that 12 of 24 Afghan brigades could operate independently with foreign advisers as of this month, and that 11 more were ranked effective if not independent.
The number of fighters for Al Qaeda in Afghanistan today is ''very low,'' but Al Qaeda's relationship with the local Afghan Taliban ''remains intact,'' the report said.
The release of the Pentagon assessment came days after the senior military commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., told The New York Times that Afghanistan would need the United States for years to come.
General Dunford said that by the end of next year, ''the actual fighting on a day-to-day basis will all be done by Afghans.'' But he also cautioned that ''Afghan forces, at the end of 2014, won't be completely independent,'' and said that ''our presence post-2014 is necessary for the gains we have made to date to be sustainable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An American soldier swept for explosive devices in Afghanistan. The Pentagon says the Afghans will need military help after the NATO-led mission ends next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALIBAN (89%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



915 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Obama Proposes Deal Over Taxes and Jobs

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JACKIE CALMES; Mark Landler reported from Chattanooga, and Jackie Calmes from Washington. Julie Bosman contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- President Obama came to a cavernous Amazon distribution center here Tuesday and backed a cut in corporate tax rates in return for a pledge from Republicans to invest in more programs to generate middle-class jobs.
The proposal, an effort to break a stalemate with Republicans over budget policy, comes as Mr. Obama and his Congressional opposition are headed toward a showdown in the fall over taxes and spending. 
With a sea of cardboard boxes serving as a backdrop, Mr. Obama described a ''grand bargain'' for the middle class that he said would stimulate the economy while giving businesses the lower tax rates they have long sought.
''If folks in Washington really want a 'grand bargain,' how about a grand bargain for middle-class jobs?'' Mr. Obama told a crowd of 2,000. ''If we're going to give businesses a better deal,'' he added, ''we're going to give workers a better deal, too.''
It was the president's first concrete proposal in an economic offensive that he inaugurated last week in Illinois to set his terms for coming budget battles with the Republican-controlled House.
But only the packaging was new. The president essentially cobbled together two existing initiatives that have been stalled in Congress: corporate tax changes and his plan to create jobs through education, training, and public works projects.
Mr. Obama outlined the terms of his tax plan in early 2012 during the presidential election, when he said the corporate tax rate would be reduced to 28 percent, from 35 percent, with a lower rate of 25 percent for manufacturing firms.
While the president presented the proposal as a concession, Republicans dismissed it more acidly than usual. ''It's the opposite of a concession,'' said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio.
In the Republicans' view, Mr. Obama's offer was less of a ''grand bargain'' than an effort to extract a new fiscal stimulus program with money from a corporate tax cut that would end up, for accounting reasons, initially generating billions of dollars of revenue for the government.
Administration officials said that the proposal, like past tax overhauls, would raise additional revenue on a one-time basis that could offset new spending. That money, the officials said, could be used to finance the investment in jobs.
The revenue would result from the transition to a revised code -- for example, as companies paid a one-time fee on profits they earned overseas but did not bring home because they did not make them subject to American tax rates.
For two years, Republicans have rejected most of Mr. Obama's initiatives to create jobs, in part because, to avoid increasing the budget deficit, he has paired those ideas with proposals to repeal or reduce tax breaks for wealthy individuals and corporations, especially oil companies.
By presenting the tax-rate cut as a stand-alone proposal, the White House hoped to make it more appealing to Republicans -- or, failing that, to depict them as obstructionists. Both Republicans and the administration have said that an overhaul of the corporate code should be ''revenue neutral,'' meaning it does not add to or subtract from the annual budget deficit.
The White House and Republicans also clashed over Mr. Obama's contention that he was making a concession by calling for an overhaul of the corporate tax code separate from one for individual taxes. In truth, analysts said, both the White House and Republicans have been increasingly open to separating the two, although neither likes to advertise it.
In February 2012, Timothy F. Geithner, then the Treasury secretary, said the administration's plan was devised so that the corporate tax code could be overhauled separately.
Even the White House's rollout of Mr. Obama's proposal in Chattanooga became an excuse for finger-pointing. White House officials said they briefed Democratic and Republican lawmakers on Monday evening and tried to reach out to Mr. Boehner's aides. But Mr. Buck said the Republican leadership learned of the initiative from the news media.
The choice of Amazon was meant to illustrate Mr. Obama's theme of a job revival in America. The company recently announced plans to hire 5,000 more workers at 17 fulfillment centers, where it packs and ships customer orders. But the White House came under fire because many Amazon jobs pay only $11 an hour, and the pace of the work in these warehouses has been described as exhausting.
On his tour of the plant, Mr. Obama stopped at stations where workers were sorting and packing bottles of Metamucil and bags of pistachio nuts. ''I've got a bunch of orders in there,'' the president said, gesturing to a bin filled with boxes.
Mr. Obama's appearance here also raised the hackles of independent booksellers, who blame Amazon, with its deep discounting and massive selection, for putting bookstores out of business.
''We are disheartened to see Amazon touted as a 'jobs creator' and its warehouse facility used as a backdrop for an important jobs speech, when, frankly, the exact opposite is true,'' the American Booksellers Association said in a letter to Mr. Obama.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at an Amazon distribution center in Chattanooga, Tenn., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (89%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



916 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Inequality In America: The Data Is Sobering

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
The good news is that President Obama appears to have decided to devote the rest of his presidency to trying to tackle the forces behind the yawning inequities that have hamstrung social and economic mobility, eroding the living standards of the middle class.
The bad news is that he may not be up to the task. 
Consider the ideas he outlined during his speech at Knox College last week. Some are old. Some are new. Some are good, some less so. But the main problem with the set is that the politically feasible -- those that he articulated with the most specificity -- are the least likely to change the nation's economic dynamics.
Connecting the nation's schools to broadband is a good idea. So is tweaking the tax code to help ordinary Americans save for retirement.
Measured against what the president called ''the forces that have conspired against the middle class for decades,'' however, they are less than overwhelming.
The president's most powerful proposals, by contrast -- including investment in infrastructure, a higher minimum wage and universal preschool for 4-year-olds -- remain as unlikely as ever to emerge from the nation's partisan divide.
Many opponents simply reject Mr. Obama's basic premise. Some researchers on the right of the political spectrum argue that inequality is not, in fact, gaping. Others contend that middle class stagnation is a myth concocted by the left to justify retro government activism à la 1970s.
After the president's speech, the conservative blogger James Pethokoukis of the American Enterprise Institute posted on Twitter: ''I feel like I am in Middle-earth hearing about return of Sauron.''
The problem is that weaving modest policy proposals through the tiny spaces allowed by the nation's partisan stalemate is unlikely to bear much fruit. A better strategy might be to articulate -- forcefully -- the nature of the problem and build a political consensus that would ultimately lead to long-delayed changes to American society.
It could go something like this:
The United States remains among the richest countries in the world. National income per person trails only that of Norway, Luxembourg, Singapore, Switzerland and Hong Kong. Yet despite its riches, in many areas the United States looks surprisingly, depressingly backward.
Infant and maternal mortality are the highest among advanced nations. So is the mortality rate of children under the age of 20. Life expectancy -- at birth and at age 60 -- is among the lowest.
Teenage pregnancy rates are not only higher than in other rich nations, they are higher than in Kazakhstan and Burundi. The United States has the highest rate of children living with a single parent among the industrialized nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Within the organization, only in Turkey, Mexico and Poland do more children live in poor homes.
These statistics may appear unrelated to the president's vision of a society cleaved between a sliver of haves reaping ever-fatter rewards and hordes of have-nots who haven't had a shot at a better life in at least a decade.
But they are intimately related not only to the problem but also to the nation's willingness to solve it. They underscore how early underprivileged Americans fall behind.
America's gaping inequality shows up everywhere, beyond the statistics for income. Rich families invest more in their children's education. Educational opportunities are stacked against the poor and middle class: 60 percent of disadvantaged children go to disadvantaged schools with fewer and lower quality resources, according to a report on educational disparities.
Unsurprisingly, literacy is more lopsided than in most other industrial nations, according to international tests of 15-year-olds carried out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
The gap between the top American scorers -- at the 90th percentile of the distribution -- and those in the middle is about as big as the gap between the average score in the United States and Azerbaijan.
In a globalized, high-tech world in which education has become a central determinant of economic success, it is hardly surprising that the prosperity of American children is more dependent on the prosperity of their parents than that of children in most other advanced countries.
How concerned is the American political system about these gaps? One way to look at it is by the effect of government actions on social outcomes. Take poverty. The United States has the 17th-highest poverty rate in the O.E.C.D., measured as the share of people who make do with less than half the median income, ranking around the middle of the pack.
If the same variable is measured after taking into account the effect of taxes and government spending programs, the American poverty rate jumps to fifth-worst.
And despite the president's fiscal stimulus law, which lifted government spending in 2009 and 2010, the United States ranks among the bottom third of nations in the O.E.C.D. in terms of outlays on social programs -- unemployment insurance, day care and the like -- to help families deal with economic stress.
You would think Americans must be tiring of their lack of progress. The disposable income of families in the middle of the income distribution shrank by 4 percent between 2000 and 2010, according to data compiled by the O.E.C.D. In Australia, by contrast, it increased 40 percent. Middle-income Germans, Dutch, French, Danes, Norwegians and even Mexicans gained more ground.
And indeed Americans are tiring of it. Over half -- 52 percent -- say that the government should redistribute wealth by taxing the rich more, according to a Gallup poll in April, the highest share since Gallup first asked the question in 1998.
So there is reason to believe that a more forceful campaign against inequality than Mr. Obama has articulated so far would resonate. The United States is a rich country. Perhaps someday soon it will start behaving like one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke about financial inequities at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) CHARTS: Measuring Us Against the World: The United States is one of the richest nations on earth, but on a number of social and economic measures, it is more typical of a developing country. Compared with other advanced nations, it ranks consistently among the worst performers in matters of economic equality and child welfare. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BROADBAND (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (62%); INFANT MORTALITY (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BURUNDI (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); SWITZERLAND (58%); LUXEMBOURG (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



917 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Elite Colleges Differ on How They Aid Poor

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

 BODY:
With affirmative action under attack and economic mobility feared to be stagnating, top colleges profess a growing commitment to recruiting poor students. But a comparison of low-income enrollment shows wide disparities among the most competitive private colleges. A student at Vassar, for example, is three times as likely to receive a need-based Pell Grant as one at Washington University in St. Louis.
''It's a question of how serious you are about it,'' said Catharine Bond Hill, the president of Vassar. She said of colleges with multibillion-dollar endowments and numerous tax exemptions that recruit few poor students, ''Shame on you.''
At Vassar, Amherst College and Emory University, 22 percent of undergraduates in 2010-11 received federal Pell Grants, which go mostly to students whose families earn less than $30,000 a year. The same year, the most recent in the federal Department of Education database, only 7 percent of undergraduates at Washington University were Pell recipients, and 8 percent at Washington and Lee University were, according to research by The New York Times. 
Researchers at Georgetown University have found that at the most competitive colleges, only 14 percent of students come from the lower 50 percent of families by income. That figure has not increased over more than two decades, an indication that a generation of pledges to diversify has not amounted to much. Top colleges differ markedly in how aggressively they hunt for qualified teenagers from poorer families, how they assess applicants who need aid, and how they distribute the available aid dollars.
Some institutions argue that they do not have the resources to be as generous as the top colleges, and for most colleges, with meager endowments, that is no doubt true. But among the elites, nearly all of them with large endowments, there is little correlation between a university's wealth and the number of students who receive Pell Grants, which did not exceed $5,550 per student last year.
Washington University has an endowment similar in size, per student, to those of Emory and Vassar -- between $300,000 and $400,000 as of mid-2012, wealthier than all but a few dozen colleges in the country, and Washington and Lee's endowment is significantly larger, the Times research shows. At Harvard and Yale, with the largest endowments in the country, Pell enrollment was near the 15 percent average for the 50 most competitive colleges; at Princeton, with the largest per-capita endowment, it was lower, 12 percent, though its officials say the rate is higher for the freshman class starting this fall.
John Berg, the vice chancellor for admissions at Washington University, said one reason its numbers are so low is that the disadvantaged students it admits usually have offers from other top colleges with better name recognition.
Bob Strong, a professor of politics at Washington and Lee who oversaw admissions there for two years as interim provost, conceded that his institution historically did a poor job of recruiting low-income students, but said that it has improved and ''we're still working on it.''
Groups that work with poorer students and administrators at colleges with high disadvantaged enrollment say that one main factor is simply making the effort to get low-income students to apply. Last year, researchers at Stanford and Harvard reported that the vast majority of high-achieving, low-income students do not apply to any selective colleges.
''Kids who've never heard of most elite institutions, who don't know anyone who's gone to one, who assume they can't afford one, aren't going to apply unless you go out and recruit them,'' said Anthony W. Marx, president of Amherst from 2003 to 2011.
Most of the top private colleges rely on nonprofit groups like Questbridge and the Posse Foundation to help them find promising disadvantaged students. However, some recruit heavily that way while others only take one or two students per year. And some elite institutions, like Washington University, do not work with such groups.
For colleges that have the resources, another factor is how willing they are to spend the money to hunt for those applicants, and the much larger amount needed to help lower-income students go to a $60,000-a-year college. In addition, poor students face bigger challenges to remain enrolled and colleges often spend money on support services for them.
Among the 50 most selective private colleges, as measured by test scores and the percentage of applicants admitted, about four-fifths have need-blind admissions, meaning that they pledge to judge applicants without considering their ability to pay. Most of the colleges that do consider financial need to varying degrees, including Colby College and Washington and Lee, have lower Pell enrollments than most of their peers.
At a forum last fall, Mark S. Wrighton, the chancellor of Washington University, said of need-blind admission, according to the student newspaper, ''It's not our highest priority'' -- a comment that Mr. Berg said was taken out of context.
Colleges award financial aid based either on need or merit, which can be defined as anything from earning good grades to being a virtuoso cellist. Colleges can use merit scholarships to attract students they consider desirable, and administrators stress that often, the donors who endow the scholarships dictate how the money is used.
Most of the elite colleges give only need-based aid. But a handful devote a significant part of their aid budgets to merit aid, and those, including Davidson College and Oberlin College, also tend to have fewer Pell recipients.
Critics who want colleges to do more to enroll poor students say the colleges are too motivated by ranking systems, which reward schools not only for recruiting higher-performing students, but also for increasing spending on salaries and buildings, but not on financial aid or diversity. Mr. Berg insisted that at Washington University rankings are never discussed in the admissions office.
The question of socioeconomic diversity has gained new urgency in recent years, as economists and sociologists debate whether social mobility is declining in the United States, and educators ask what role top colleges play in helping or hindering that movement.
Socioeconomic diversity also became an issue in the debate over race-conscious admissions in the past year, as the Supreme Court considered a case that could have led to the abolition of affirmative action. The court decided not to address that issue head-on, but it is likely to return before the justices.
Some opponents of affirmative action argue that eliminating it would prompt colleges to give students more of a leg up based on disadvantage, rather than race, a system that they argue would be fairer. Affirmative action supporters voice doubts that its elimination would change colleges' recruitment of poorer students, noting that a review of elite public universities shows no consistency among them, whether or not they consider race.
Among the top private schools, the disparities are even greater. Some private college administrators say they do not have the same moral obligation as public colleges to serve all strata of society, though they are loath to say so publicly.
Ms. Hill, of Vassar, disagrees.
''We receive public support through federal grants, state grants, our tax exemptions, so I think we have the same duty,'' she said. ''And if young people don't have an equal shot at getting a great education, we're going to create a society we're not very happy with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nnennia Mazagwu, above, participated in Diving Into Research, a program for incoming Vassar College freshmen with low-income backgrounds. Gabriel Elizalde Jr., near left, with his mentor in the program, Anuoluwapo Eniola Sopeyin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Catharine Hill of Vassar. (A12) CHART: Varied Enrollment Of Low-Income Students: The share of students receiving Pell Grants, the main form of federal aid for low- and moderate-income students, varies widely at the 50 most selective private colleges. A fifth of the colleges, mostly ones with lower Pell enrollment, factor a family's ability to pay into some of their admission decisions. (Sources: Dept. of Education
 the colleges) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%) MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



918 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Trade Fight Over Solar Benefits A Bystander

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The long-running trade conflicts over solar panels between China and the United States and Europe have sown dissatisfaction all around, leaving many manufacturers of solar materials complaining that the market is still unfair.
But one country not involved in the disputes has already benefited from them and, with Saturday's agreement between China and the European Union, stands to benefit again: Taiwan.
Last October, after finding that Chinese companies were receiving unfair government subsidies and selling their merchandise below the cost of production, the United States imposed tariffs of roughly 24 to 36 percent on imported Chinese panels. But the ruling included a major loophole; it applied only to panels made from Chinese solar cells, the final major components that are assembled into finished modules. 
Many manufacturers were able to skirt the taxes by buying their cells elsewhere, mainly from Taiwan.
This month, for instance, the Neo Solar Power Corporation, a leading cell manufacturer based in Taiwan, announced its sixth consecutive month of growth, with a 74 percent increase in revenue in June over the month before, in part because of increased production capacity since its merger with another manufacturer, DelSolar.
Taiwanese producers, which have been able to command a 4- to 5-cent per watt premium over Chinese-made cells, have been operating at fuller capacity and have sold out inventory faster than the Chinese, said Shayle Kann, vice president of research at GTM Research, which tracks clean-tech industries. And Hareon, a solar cell and module manufacturer in China, recently announced plans to build a large cell production plant in Taiwan with Mascotte Holdings, which makes solar-grade silicon in Taiwan.
''Taiwan has benefited from the fact that the U.S. has left the Taiwanese loophole available for Chinese companies to essentially sneak into the U.S. market without paying the tariff,'' said Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James.
''Those extra few pennies that it costs the Chinese module companies, that's cheaper than paying the tariff,'' which would roughly cost an extra 20 cents per watt, he added.
It is not just the trade loophole that has helped Taiwanese businesses, analysts said, but also strong demand for solar over all from China, the United States and Japan, despite the dire predictions that the trade conflict would lead to a rise in prices and stymie growth. ''We're not seeing a lot of evidence of the market slowing down,'' said Adam Krop, vice president of equity research at Ardour Capital, an investment bank focused on energy technologies.
The European trade settlement could help increase production as well.
In that case, under the threat of 47.6 percent tariffs, China agreed that manufacturers would not sell panels below 56 euro cents per watt. But that price is even lower than panels were selling for when European manufacturers complained of dumping to the European Commission, and a group of them said over the weekend that they were preparing to file a lawsuit to overturn it. In China, 50 of 140 manufacturers rejected the settlement, which means that their merchandise will face the 47.6 percent tariff.
Among that group -- smaller businesses that account for as little as 10 percent of Chinese exports to Europe, according to some estimates -- it would be economical to try to sell to Europe only for bankrupt or nearly bankrupt companies that were trying to get rid of inventories without warranty for as little as 30 euro cents a watt.
For them, it would still be cheaper to ship to the United States, with tariffs as high as about 36 percent.
The settlement could help the Chinese government reach its goal of consolidating the industry, which relied on heavy government subsidies and loans from state-owned banks to rapidly scale up production. The resultant global glut of low-price panels drove many European and American companies out of business.
For Taiwan, the agreement opens the door for producers to make panels there and sell into the European market at an even lower price, analysts said.
''You might still want to source outside China so that you can undercut the Chinese manufacturers in the European market,'' Mr. Kann said, adding that some Chinese manufacturers had been looking at establishing low-cost production in India and Eastern Europe in addition to Taiwan in anticipation of the European settlement.
That could happen, though not in the short term, said Arturo Herrero, chief marketing officer of JinkoSolar, a Chinese panel manufacturer that has been buying its cells there to make modules for the United States market since the tariffs went into effect.
Most of Taiwan's production capacity is already taken up meeting demand from companies trying to avoid the United States tariffs, making it more expensive to produce there than in China.
The immediate chief beneficiaries would be the ''top players in this industry coming from China,'' he said.
''Price will not be a differentiation -- customers will choose at this minimum price the best brands in the industry.''
But it leaves the United States, which wanted European leaders to work with them on a multilateral agreement, on its own in an escalating conflict that has not helped the American industries as much as intended.
''It's hard to see how this decision helps anyone except companies in China and Taiwan,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. ''In the end, the E.U. will not have just sold out its workers and companies that produce solar panels, but U.S. workers and employers as well.''
Beijing recently announced tariffs of up to 57 percent on American-made polysilicon, the main material in solar panels, a big blow to the industry.
Now, the United States Commerce Department is taking a closer look at whether Chinese manufacturers are truthfully reporting the sources of cells they say are from outside of China.
Trade officials have written letters to some of the largest manufacturers, including Trina, Suntech, LDK and Yingli Green Energy, asking for invoices and tracking records that show that the cells in their panels came from outside China.
''We think the more they look, the more they will find large-scale evasion and circumvention by Chinese solar producers,'' said Timothy C. Brightbill, a partner at the law firm Wiley Rein, who is representing the solar panel manufacturers that filed the trade case.
''We're asking for the strongest enforcement efforts possible so that U.S. companies and workers can see real benefit from these trade cases.''
He added, ''There's been some benefit, but they're still being harmed by pricing that is not sustainable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Solar panels on a rooftop in Yiwu, in China's Zhejiang Province. As major solar panel makers feud, a strong market for panels is benefiting factories in Taiwan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY, VIA REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (86%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%)

COMPANY: NEO SOLAR POWER CORP (91%); MASCOTTE HOLDINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: 3576 (TAIEX) (91%); 0136 (HKSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (91%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



919 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Present Closing Arguments in Former Goldman Trader's Fraud Case

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, was either a greedy scheming liar or a bright young executive just trying to do his job, according to dueling portraits presented during closing arguments Tuesday in the most prominent case from the financial crisis to go to trial.
These competing views of Mr. Tourre, who is accused of scheming with a big hedge fund to defraud investors in connection with a 2007 trade, were the last attempt by lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission and Mr. Tourre to influence the nine-member jury, which includes a school principal, a retired special education teacher and a former stockbroker. 
Matthew Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, was the first to present his closing remarks and had the last word with jurors in a rebuttal. Mr. Martens, who at times during the trial has appeared a bit rigid, hit his stride Tuesday, speaking clearly and forcefully from a lectern for more than three hours.
''When it came to lies from the witness stand, Mr. Tourre took the cake,'' he told jurors. He said Mr. Tourre conspired with the hedge fund Paulson & Company to commit a $1 billion fraud to ''feed Wall Street greed,'' and he asked the jury to hold Mr. Tourre ''accountable for his actions.''
Mr. Tourre, a 34-year-old Frenchman, was living in a ''Goldman Sachs land of make believe'' where deceiving investors is not fraudulent, Mr. Martens said.
Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, accused the S.E.C. of peddling ''half truths'' and ''deceit'' against his client. Unlike Mr. Martens, Mr. Coffey did not stand in one place during his closing, opting instead to pace in front of the jury, often ad-libbing. He picked up steam during his remarks and at one point appeared to be holding back tears.
''The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence,'' he said.
Jurors have been listening to testimony for 12 days, and on Wednesday the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan, will give them instructions.
Mr. Tourre faces seven fraud-related charges, and the jury can find him liable on some or all of them. To find him liable, the jury has to find that Mr. Tourre made a material or important misstatement and did not correct it. The S.E.C. does not need to prove intent for all of the charges. Jurors can find Mr. Tourre did not intend to deceive investors but was reckless or negligent, and that could bring lesser penalties. If the jury returns an unfavorable verdict, Mr. Tourre faces fines and a possible ban from the securities industry.
Much of the closing arguments centered on a Jan. 10, 2007, e-mail that Mr. Tourre sent to Laura Schwartz, an executive at a financial firm that Goldman hoped would manage and invest in a mortgage-related security. He suggested both that a portion of the security usually held by a bullish investor had been spoken for, when that was not the case, and that Paulson & Company was a ''transaction sponsor,'' which some could have interpreted wrongly as the hedge fund betting that the investment would succeed.
Mr. Tourre admitted the e-mail was not accurate, and the S.E.C. contended that Mr. Tourre never corrected that misimpression despite several statements by Ms. Schwartz that referred to Paulson & Company as an ''equity,'' or long, investor. Mr. Martens alluded to testimony by both Ms. Schwartz and her former boss that their firm would never have participated if they had known the hedge fund was betting against the deal.
But Mr. Coffey fought back, arguing that his client had corrected the misimpression with multiple offering documents and noting that an executive at Paulson & Company testified that he had in fact told Ms. Schwartz of his employer's plans to bet against the security.
Mr. Coffey also contended that Ms. Schwartz regularly dealt with hedge funds interested in strategies similar to the one Paulson & Company was pursuing. He scoffed at Ms. Schwartz's claim that she had no sense of the fund's strategy despite numerous news articles about its mortgage bets.
Mr. Martens pointed out that not all investors in the deal were aware of the hedge fund's involvement or intentions, particularly IKB, a German bank involved. But Mr. Coffey noted testimony from a former colleague of his client who said such information would have been immaterial, given the nature of the deal.
Both sides also sought to poke holes in the credibility of opposing witnesses. Mr. Martens repeatedly doubted Mr. Tourre's sudden recollection on the stand of why he described the first meeting between Ms. Schwartz and Paulson as ''surreal'' six years after the fact. Mr. Coffey countered that it is not uncommon for people to remember things with the help of related documents, which is what Mr. Tourre did in this instance. But Mr. Coffey questioned Ms. Schwartz's credibility, pointing out that her testimony coincided with the S.E.C.'s dropping a separate investigation into her.
The trial has taken its toll on all sides. While riding the elevator down with Mr. Tourre after his closing remarks, Mr. Coffey announced, ''I need a Scotch, and I am going to have one.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice Tourre arriving at United States District Court in Manhattan on Tuesday. He is accused of scheming with a hedge fund to defraud investors in a 2007 trade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); VERDICTS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WITNESSES (77%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); JUDGES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



920 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TRAILSIDE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: For Quinn, Topics Beyond You-Know-Who

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ

 BODY:
Christine C. Quinn, hopelessly late for her next engagement, was taking questions about health insurance and housing on Tuesday when a woman started shouting in her direction.
''Beat those bums!'' the woman said, referring to two scandal-scarred candidates running for citywide offices this year, Anthony D. Weiner and Eliot Spitzer. ''Once they cheat, they're done.''
Ms. Quinn, the City Council speaker, quickly pivoted the conversation back to her plan to create more affordable housing. 
Ms. Quinn, a Democrat, re-emerged this week as the putative front-runner in the race to be mayor, as Mr. Weiner's standing in a poll tumbled after his acknowledgment that the sexually explicit online exchanges with women that prompted his resignation from Congress had continued through last summer.
Ms. Quinn now finds herself in an enviable, if precarious, position, with six weeks until the primary -- an eternity in a topsy-turvy election season -- and a roster of rivals eager to tear apart her record.
On Wednesday, a Republican candidate, John A. Catsimatidis, plans to begin running a television advertisement criticizing Ms. Quinn over a crime issue; she has already been the subject of a series of negative television advertisements financed by opponents of carriage horses in Central Park, and her Democratic opponents frequently criticize her support for rewriting term limits laws, which allowed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to seek a third term.
Ms. Quinn seemed in high spirits on Tuesday as she toured senior centers on the Upper East Side, joking with residents about bingo and punctuating autographs with a stock phrase, ''Thanks for being a great New Yorker!'' She shared stories of her grandmother, who lived in a Long Island senior center, saying her life was longer because of it.
''Every day she had a reason -- when I was at school and my father was at work -- to get up and get dressed,'' she said. ''It wasn't just a meal. It was a second home, a community.''
At the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, Abel Amar, 95, a former textile designer, asked Ms. Quinn if her fiery red hair was natural.
''God didn't make this hair color,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''I think of hair coloring as economic development.''
At the Carter Burden Luncheon Club and Senior Program, Linda Goldwater, a retired teacher, asked Ms. Quinn what she would give teachers in the next round of contract negotiations. ''A fair deal,'' Ms. Quinn said, sidestepping specifics.
Ms. Quinn seemed eager to talk about anything other than Mr. Weiner and Mr. Spitzer, who have dominated national headlines in recent days. (Mr. Spitzer is running for city comptroller.)
Appearing on CNN on Tuesday morning, she said it would be ''cheeky'' to call for Mr. Weiner to drop out of the mayoral race. ''Of course the scandal had an impact in voters' minds,'' she said. ''You need a mayor who has a level of maturity and responsibility.''
Later, at a news conference announcing a plan to end co-pays for medications that treat chronic illnesses, Ms. Quinn would not say whether she was worried that Mr. Weiner's declining popularity would help another Democratic opponent, Bill de Blasio, the public advocate.
''One thing you can bet your last dollar on,'' she said, ''is that polls are going to go up and down between now and Sept. 10.'' She declined to say anything more.
But later, on MSNBC, Ms. Quinn took a shot at Mr. Spitzer, who resigned as governor over his patronizing of prostitutes but who suggested in a recent interview that Mr. Weiner's behavior disqualified him from being mayor.
''I don't think Eliot Spitzer is in a position to be pointing fingers at anybody,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (86%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TERM LIMITS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); SCANDALS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%); ANTHONY D WEINER (76%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



921 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: A Plan to Help Cities

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A fact sometimes ignored in discussions of Detroit's bankruptcy filing is that its metropolitan area, which officially includes three neighboring counties and unofficially parts of several more, has not shared the city's distress. White flight, beginning in the early 1950s and accelerating thereafter, relocated much of the city's tax base and economic vitality into the surrounding suburbs and exurbs. 
The economic, social, political and demographic composition of southeastern Michigan looks different when the entire region is brought into view. In fact, the metropolitan area's population increased from 1950 to 2010. And the region remains a major location for auto manufacturing and employment.
The failure to devise a workable regionalization of government and its services between the city and its surroundings accounts for many of the city's problems. Perhaps there is a lesson for other cities that are under threat.
Two contrasting events in the region's history hint at the problems and the promise of regionalization.
In the early 1970s racial tensions exploded when a federal court endorsed a plan for cross-district busing of school children between black Detroit and white suburbia. Eventually the Supreme Court calmed the tumult when it ruled against the plan. A regional approach had failed.
But in 2012 a three-county referendum that authorized a property tax levy to support a financially beleaguered Detroit Institute of Arts won approval. Common interests have the potential to cross the boundary separating city and suburbs.
Perhaps a regionally grounded effort, in collaboration with the state and federal governments, offers a way forward for other cities. The question is whether our rickety, dysfunctional political system can muster the wisdom and the will for such an effort. Anything less is likely to fail.
JOHN BARNARD Orleans, Mass., July 29, 2013
The writer is emeritus professor of history at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond by Thursday for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Mr. Barnard's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); WRITERS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); HISTORY (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); REFERENDUMS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); APPROVALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



922 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Banks' Focus on Recovery Is Miring Europe's Economic Growth

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and MARK SCOTT; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Mark Scott from London.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Their United States rivals may be rolling in money, but for European banks it is still the season of penitence.
Quarterly reports by three of the biggest banks in Europe on Tuesday showed how, five years after the beginning of the financial crisis, they continue to pay for the sins and excesses of the boom years.
While the six largest United States banks earned a combined $23 billion in the three months through June, Deutsche Bank, Barclays and UBS could not manage profit of $1 billion among them. The fallout is measured not only in diminished earnings but also in the banks' continued need to raise money to make themselves less vulnerable to risk and to set aside reserves to pay for any future legal scandals.
As the banks work their way through the rubble of the financial crisis and their own missteps, their focus on rehabilitation -- rather than a full resumption of lending to businesses and consumers -- continues to delay Europe's economic rebound. 
That stands in contrast to the big American banks, which despite their own legal and financial troubles were forced by the government to quickly resolve their problems. That has helped pace the United States recovery that is creating a widening growth gap between the two sides of the Atlantic.
American banks ''pushed through the pain earlier than the European banks,'' said James H. Gellert, the chief executive of Rapid Ratings, an independent analysis firm in New York. Now the European banks are trying to raise capital and revamp their businesses in the midst of a downturn.
The multiple challenges ''not only have financial impact,'' Mr. Gellert said, ''they are seriously distracting to management.''
Banks around the world face growing momentum from regulations that would curtail their use of leverage, or borrowed money. The pressure is especially intense in Europe. Regulators were generally slower than in the United States to require banks to build up more capital after the global financial system all but froze up in the autumn of 2008 because those banks did not have the ability to withstand a sudden collapse in the market for mortgage-backed securities.
On Tuesday, Deutsche Bank, Europe's biggest investment bank, reported a 50 percent decline in profit, worse than expected. More significant, it announced that it would shrink its financial holdings by 16 percent, or 250 billion euros, to reduce its exposure to risk.
The bank also added 630 million euros, or about $836 million, to a fund to cover the costs of defending against suits brought by investors who blame Deutsche Bank for losses they suffered, including some investments linked to the United States mortgage market.Barclays, of Britain, in reporting a loss, said it would raise £7.8 billion, or about $12 billion, in capital in part by selling new shares. Reporting a second-quarter loss of £168 million, Barclays said it would set aside an additional £2 billion to compensate investors after regulators ruled that the bank improperly sold them insurance and complex financial hedging products.
Antony P. Jenkins, the chief executive of Barclays, said the increase in capital would help stabilize the bank and allow it to increase its dividend to shareholders next year.
''It is early days, and there is a long way to go,'' he said, ''but I'm pleased with our progress.''
The Swiss bank UBS reported a nearly one-third increase in profit, but like Deutsche Bank and Barclays, its earnings were weighed down by legal costs and by pressure to build up capital reserves.
Investors duly punished Barclays, whose shares fell 6 percent, and Deutsche Bank, whose shares declined 4 percent. UBS shares rose more than 2 percent on what, on this day, looked almost like good news.
The three lenders symbolize problems in the broader European banking system, which is both a victim of the Continent's economic malaise and a cause of it. American banks like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase have been able to ride an improving economy in the United States, but the European banks are still working through huge portfolios of damaged government bond holdings or sour real estate loans.
As the big European banks lick their wounds, their stinginess with credit is one of the main reasons that the euro zone is stuck in recession.
The exception among European banks on Tuesday was the Spanish lender Banco Santander, which benefits from an extensive network in Latin America. The bank posted a sharply higher second-quarter profit of 1.1 billion euros.
Santander, one of Europe's largest banks by market value, wrote off billions of dollars' worth of faulty real estate loans last year, primarily in Spain.
But banks elsewhere in Europe continue to suffer a hangover from the financial crisis.
Deutsche Bank cited lower fees from stock, bond and other securities trading as a reason its profit plunged in the second quarter, as many investors became wary of playing the markets.
Stefan Krause, the chief financial officer at Deutsche Bank, attributed the financial market turmoil to fears of European investors about a slowdown in China and their nervousness about how quickly the Federal Reserve will withdraw its economic stimulus measures in the United States.
Europe is especially susceptible to problems in the Chinese economy, because China is a large market for European goods. Signs that the Fed might slowly allow interest rates to rise has put upward pressure on market interest rates in Europe, which contributes to the scarcity of credit that has choked off business growth.
The European Central Bank, which will meet on Thursday, has cut the benchmark interest rate to 0.5 percent in an attempt to restore the flow of credit, but without much success so far.
But the biggest overhanging issue might be leverage, the use of borrowed money to make investments. Leverage can supercharge profits, but it also amplifies losses. Critics, whose arguments are gaining currency with regulators, say that taxpayers usually wind up paying for the losses when things go wrong while bankers take home the profits when times are good.
Deutsche Bank has been hurt by the perception, which it disputes, that it is one of the most leveraged lenders in the world. That was the main theme during a conference call between Deutsche Bank's top management and analysts on Tuesday.
''Regulators, politicians and analysts have shifted their attention to leverage in the last few months,'' Mr. Krause said, with a note of ruefulness in his voice.
The regulatory pressure is also leading banks to curtail their investment banking operations. UBS, as part of an overhaul, is shifting its focus away from risky trading toward its wealth management operations.
Making the comeback effort all the harder, the combination of poor economic growth, regulatory pressure and litigation makes it difficult for bank managers to focus on adjusting to a new era when banking simply will not be as profitable as it used to be, said Mr. Gellert, the analyst.
''Being distracted by legacies from the old period is a real serious issue,'' he said. ''The golden age of banking is over.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%); SCANDALS (54%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



923 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending and Economic Growth

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: What determines economic growth varies, but consumer spending is a result of growth, not a cause of it, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
High levels of consumer spending are a consequence of economic growth, not a cause of it.
Perhaps the most important topic in economics is the determinants of sustained growth for an economy. The arithmetic of compound interest tells us that even a small addition to the annual economic growth rate creates huge improvements in living standards for subsequent generations. 
Economists have been investigating the determinants of economic growth for decades, and conclude that investment is crucial for an economy to grow. High rates of investment in the present make possible future consumer spending. The debate continues as to the type of investment that is most important, and whether specific types of investment might be counterproductive (think of Stalin's five-year plans).
A number of economists have emphasized physical investment: that is, the accumulation of structures, business plant and equipment and other tangible assets. J. Bradford De Long and Lawrence H. Summers found that "machinery and equipment investment has a strong association with growth," adding that it was "much stronger than found between growth and any of the other components of investment." (see also this paper in The Quarterly Journal of Economics by N. Gregory Mankiw, David Romer and David N. Weil)
Other economists, including Theodore Schultz and Gary Becker, have emphasized the accumulation of human capital through schooling and other kinds of training and learning. Arguably even machinery and equipment investment is not possible or effective unless the work force is skilled enough to install and use the new equipment.
A third school of thought points to investment in ideas and new technologies that outlast their inventors (the economist Paul Romer has made some major contributions here). This approach tends to be pro-population and pro-city, because ideas and technologies have economies of scale.
Economists are also unsure about the public policies that might promote investment. Should college educations get heavy subsidies? Should government enterprises be doing the basic research? Should tax rates on capital income be low? Should the financial industry be regulated?
But we do largely agree that investment, rather than consumer spending, is the means to achieving the high growth. High growth can sustain consumer spending in the future.
That's why I was startled to see my fellow Economix blogger Jared Bernstein assert exactly the opposite. In supporting President Obama's economics speech, Mr. Bernstein (who served in the Obama administration) contends that buying power for the middle class is essential for economic growth, because those people have a high "marginal propensity to consume" rather than invest and save.

I can see how supporting the middle class might enhance growth by helping parents afford to educate their children or altering the political climate in a way that better supported pro-investment policies. Or maybe now is the time for temporary stimulus rather than pro-growth policies. But that's not what Mr. Bernstein wrote. He contended that, according to "solid theory," middle-class "buying power" is critical for growth because the middle class is a segment of society that is unlikely to put its income toward saving and investment.
Mr. Bernstein has growth theory backward. But just in case he and President Obama have been following the latest economic growth theory more closely than I have, I went back to check the economic growth textbooks. My favorite was written by Robert Barro and Xavier Sala-i-Martin; I also looked at the latest editions of three books recommended by Tyler Cowen of George Mason University.
All of the books look closely at investment. All of them note the three flavors of investments: physical, human and ideas. None of them say that a high marginal propensity to consume might be a way to create sustained economic growth. None of them even has an entry in its index for "marginal propensity to consume" or any related concept (Professors Barro and Sala-i-Martin note that consumption is a function of wealth, and in doing so they show how investment rather than consumption leads to economic growth).
Mr. Bernstein emphasizes that "consumer spending as a share of gross domestic product in the United States is about 70 percent," but that's a red herring, because the models of investment and growth also assume the same fact. Economists understand that measuring the largest component of aggregate spending does not tell us whether growth is created by investment or consumer spending.
Philippe Aghion's and Peter Howitt's textbook has an extensive treatment of public policies that might promote economic growth, yet neither this nor the others mentioned above include Mr. Bernstein's recommendation of shifting resources to persons with a high propensity to consume. Instead, the Aghion-Howitt book discusses "fostering competition and entry," "investing in education," "reducing volatility and risk," "liberalizing trade," "preserving the environment" and "promoting democracy." (The authors do not necessarily conclude that each of these policies is a good idea, but merely explain how economic theory might link the policies to growth.)
Economic growth begins with investment and ends with consumer spending. Not the other way around. To the degree that policy makers are confused on this point, it should be no surprise that they are delivering low economic growth rates.

        
A Mobility Prophet
        
More on Consumer Spending and Growth
        
The Complex Story of Race and Upward Mobility
        
The Multinational Equation on Jobs
        
Strongest Since 1999?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CHILDREN (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); PARENTING (61%) Becker, Gary; United States Economy; The Growth Debate; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%) Becker, Gary

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



924 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: JPMorgan's Conciliatory Approach in Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relations with the government. | The age of the hostile takeover appears to be ending. | The Fabrice Tourre case is going to a jury on Wednesday. | Little-known private databases can effectively blacklist Americans from the mainstream financial system. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relationships with the government, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook. But the new and conciliatory approach is yielding mixed results. "Government officials, stung by the bank's past displays of hubris, may drive up the price of settlements or resist the overtures altogether."
On Tuesday, JPMorgan struck a $410 million settlement with the nation's top energy regulator, which had accused the bank of devising "manipulative schemes" to transform "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers." It was a record fine for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. JPMorgan is bracing for an even larger penalty related to shoddy mortgage securities it sold to the government, DealBook reports.
"The bank's new approach comes down, at least in part, to dollars and cents. While the settlements are expensive, they pale in comparison to the sort of legal bills that come with long - and embarrassing - legal battles. The conciliatory tack also reflects a growing recognition among bank executives that JPMorgan was swiftly losing credibility in Washington. At least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank, and some regulators have portrayed JPMorgan as something of a bully." 
FEWER BARBARIANS AT THE GATE | "The hostile takeover is on life support, if it's not dead altogether," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. "This year, there have been a grand total of three hostile offers, according to FactSet MergerMetrics. Two of the three were for small companies worth less $25 million. Last year, there were only 12 hostile bids, FactSet reported. These days, the directors of the 5,000 or so public companies have a better chance of being hurt in a car accident than by a hostile bidder."
So how has the market changed since the 1980s, when corporate raiders bestrode the landscape? "Simply put, the forces on companies to perform better appear to have worked, leaving fewer undervalued targets for hostile bidders," Mr. Davidoff writes. "Hostile takeovers have also become riskier. Not only boards, but shareholders at target companies are much more willing to say no if they feel a bid is underpriced." Still, this development raises a new concern: that the disciplining effect of a hostile takeover threat will disappear.
TOURRE CASE GOES TO JURY | 
Lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission and for Fabrice P. Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, have made their last attempts to influence a nine-member jury, which is set to receive instructions from the judge on Wednesday. Mr. Tourre "was either a greedy scheming liar or a bright young executive just trying to do his job, according to dueling portraits presented during closing arguments Tuesday," Susanne Craig and Michael J. de la Merced write in DealBook.
Matthew Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, was the first to present his closing remarks and had the last word with jurors. "When it came to lies from the witness stand, Mr. Tourre took the cake," he told jurors. Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, accused the S.E.C. of peddling "half truths" and "deceit." He said, "The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence."
ON THE AGENDA | 
An estimate of gross domestic product in the second quarter is released at 8:30 a.m. The Federal Reserve's policy making committee makes an announcement at 2 p.m. Hess and Hyatt Hotels report earnings before the market opens. MetLife and Yelp report earnings this evening. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs's chief economist, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m.
BLACKLISTED FROM THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM | "Mistakes like a bounced check or a small overdraft have effectively blacklisted more than a million low-income Americans from the mainstream financial system for as long as seven years as a result of little-known private databases that are used by the nation's major banks," Jessica Silver-Greenberg reports in DealBook. "The problem is contributing to the growth of the roughly 10 million households in the United States that lack a banking account, a basic requirement of modern economic life."
"Unlike traditional credit reporting databases, which provide portraits of outstanding debt and payment histories, these are records of transgressions in banking products. Institutions like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo say that tapping into the vast repositories of information helps them weed out risky customers and combat fraud - a mounting threat for banks. But consumer advocates and state authorities say the use of the databases disproportionately affects lower-income Americans, who tend to live paycheck to paycheck, making them more likely to incur negative marks after relatively minor banking missteps like overdrawing accounts, amassing fees or bouncing checks."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Schneider Electric to Buy Invensys for $5.2 Billion | Schneider Electric of France has agreed to buy the British engineering company Invensys in a cash-and-stock deal worth £3.4 billion, or $5.2 billion. DealBook »
Accenture Said to Be in Talks to Buy Booz & Company | The consulting firm Accenture "is in talks to acquire" Booz & Company, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. (Booz & Company was once part of Booz Allen Hamilton, but the two companies are not connected today.) WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chairman of Spirit Airlines Said to Be in Talks to Buy Rival Airline | Bill Franke, who is expected to resign as chairman of Spirit Airlines next month, is in talks through his investment firm to buy Frontier Airlines, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Baidu Raises $1 Billion in Sale of Bonds | Baidu, China's largest search engine company, raised the money to help pay for its recent acquisition of a Chinese app store operator, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Aerospace Giant Changes Name to Airbus | The company formerly known as EADS said it would reorganize in three divisions and be renamed the Airbus Group, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING
A Plan to Enliven Paris's Financial District | A sprawling array of office buildings known as La Défense was envisioned as Paris's answer to Lower Manhattan or the City of London, but it often seems more like the isolated end of a spoke that highlights a flaw in urban planning. NEW YORK TIMES
BNP Paribas's Earnings Fall 5% | BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, said its second-quarter profit fell 5 percent, to $2.33 billion, as it made additional provisions to cover potential losses in the face of a struggling European economy. DealBook »
Donald J. Mulvihill of Goldman Sachs Has Died | Mr. Mulvihill, a Goldman Sachs managing director who started the bank's asset management business in Japan, has died at 56, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Blackstone and Deutsche Bank Said to Weigh Selling Bonds Tied to Homes | Bloomberg News reports: "Blackstone Group L.P., the private-equity firm that spent $5 billion buying more than 30,000 houses to rent them out, is working with Deutsche Bank AG as it considers creating securities tied to about 1,500 of such properties, according to a person with knowledge of the matter." BLOOMBERG NEWS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
SAC Reinsurance Arm Placed on Review by A.M. Best | Reuters reports: "Insurance rating group A.M. Best said on Tuesday that it is placing SAC Re, the reinsurance arm linked to hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, on review with negative implications less than a week after the fund was hit with criminal insider trading charges." REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Said to Consider Bidding for Hong Kong Supermarket Chain | The private equity firm K.K.R. "is evaluating a bid for billionaire Li Ka-shing's ParknShop supermarket chain, said two people with knowledge of the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Ackman Announces a Stake in Air Products and Chemicals | William A. Ackman's firm Pershing Square Capital Management has amassed a 9.8 percent stake, valued at about $2.2 billion, in the industrial gas company Air Products and Chemicals.
CNBC
Losing Money on Herbalife, Ackman Is Defiant | William A. Ackman, whose hedge fund has lost more than $200 million on its short position on Herbalife, continues to assert that the company is an illegal pyramid scheme. DealBook »
Former Credit Trader at Mizuho Financial Plans New Hedge Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
A Hint of Twitter's I.P.O. Plans | Twitter posted a notice that it was looking to hire a financial reporting manager whose duties would include writing an S-1 document, the filing used to indicate plans to go public. The notice was later taken down. QUARTZ | USA TODAY
Why an Alibaba I.P.O. Is Both Promise and Problem for Yahoo | Yahoo does have some influence, John Foley of Reuters Breakingviews notes. It has a representative on Alibaba's board and the right to appoint an investment bank to help run any offering process. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Uber Says It Is Raising New Money | Uber, the start-up that let users summon cars with an app, said it is seeking "hundreds of millions" of dollars in a new financing round, according to Bloomberg News. "There are discussions under way, we're raising right now," said Travis Kalanick, the chief executive. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Ex-Stock Analyst Charged With Insider Trading in Case Tied to SAC Indictment | A former technology analyst at the research firm Collins Stewart was charged with leaking secret information to at least two different hedge funds, including SAC Capital Advisors. DealBook »
Lawyer Who Beat Chevron Faces Trial of His Own | "Steven R. Donziger - environmental hero or charlatan, depending on whom you talk to - is one of the toughest lawyers around, or slightly crazy," The New York Times writes. "Possibly both." NEW YORK TIMES
Predicting What the Fed Will Say | Reuters writes: "The Federal Reserve likely will decide at the end of a policy meeting on Wednesday to continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace, but it could alter an accompanying statement to spell out the possibility of scaling back purchases later this year." REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



925 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan's Conciliatory Approach in Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relations with the government. | The age of the hostile takeover appears to be ending. | The Fabrice Tourre case is going to a jury on Wednesday. | Little-known private databases can effectively blacklist Americans from the mainstream financial system. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relationships with the government, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook. But the new and conciliatory approach is yielding mixed results. "Government officials, stung by the bank's past displays of hubris, may drive up the price of settlements or resist the overtures altogether."
On Tuesday, JPMorgan struck a $410 million settlement with the nation's top energy regulator, which had accused the bank of devising "manipulative schemes" to transform "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers." It was a record fine for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. JPMorgan is bracing for an even larger penalty related to shoddy mortgage securities it sold to the government, DealBook reports.
"The bank's new approach comes down, at least in part, to dollars and cents. While the settlements are expensive, they pale in comparison to the sort of legal bills that come with long - and embarrassing - legal battles. The conciliatory tack also reflects a growing recognition among bank executives that JPMorgan was swiftly losing credibility in Washington. At least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank, and some regulators have portrayed JPMorgan as something of a bully." 
FEWER BARBARIANS AT THE GATE | "The hostile takeover is on life support, if it's not dead altogether," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. "This year, there have been a grand total of three hostile offers, according to FactSet MergerMetrics. Two of the three were for small companies worth less $25 million. Last year, there were only 12 hostile bids, FactSet reported. These days, the directors of the 5,000 or so public companies have a better chance of being hurt in a car accident than by a hostile bidder."
So how has the market changed since the 1980s, when corporate raiders bestrode the landscape? "Simply put, the forces on companies to perform better appear to have worked, leaving fewer undervalued targets for hostile bidders," Mr. Davidoff writes. "Hostile takeovers have also become riskier. Not only boards, but shareholders at target companies are much more willing to say no if they feel a bid is underpriced." Still, this development raises a new concern: that the disciplining effect of a hostile takeover threat will disappear.
TOURRE CASE GOES TO JURY | 
Lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission and for Fabrice P. Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, have made their last attempts to influence a nine-member jury, which is set to receive instructions from the judge on Wednesday. Mr. Tourre "was either a greedy scheming liar or a bright young executive just trying to do his job, according to dueling portraits presented during closing arguments Tuesday," Susanne Craig and Michael J. de la Merced write in DealBook.
Matthew Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, was the first to present his closing remarks and had the last word with jurors. "When it came to lies from the witness stand, Mr. Tourre took the cake," he told jurors. Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, accused the S.E.C. of peddling "half truths" and "deceit." He said, "The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence."
ON THE AGENDA | 
An estimate of gross domestic product in the second quarter is released at 8:30 a.m. The Federal Reserve's policy making committee makes an announcement at 2 p.m. Hess and Hyatt Hotels report earnings before the market opens. MetLife and Yelp report earnings this evening. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs's chief economist, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m.
BLACKLISTED FROM THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM | "Mistakes like a bounced check or a small overdraft have effectively blacklisted more than a million low-income Americans from the mainstream financial system for as long as seven years as a result of little-known private databases that are used by the nation's major banks," Jessica Silver-Greenberg reports in DealBook. "The problem is contributing to the growth of the roughly 10 million households in the United States that lack a banking account, a basic requirement of modern economic life."
"Unlike traditional credit reporting databases, which provide portraits of outstanding debt and payment histories, these are records of transgressions in banking products. Institutions like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo say that tapping into the vast repositories of information helps them weed out risky customers and combat fraud - a mounting threat for banks. But consumer advocates and state authorities say the use of the databases disproportionately affects lower-income Americans, who tend to live paycheck to paycheck, making them more likely to incur negative marks after relatively minor banking missteps like overdrawing accounts, amassing fees or bouncing checks."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Schneider Electric to Buy Invensys for $5.2 Billion | Schneider Electric of France has agreed to buy the British engineering company Invensys in a cash-and-stock deal worth £3.4 billion, or $5.2 billion. DealBook »
Accenture Said to Be in Talks to Buy Booz & Company | The consulting firm Accenture "is in talks to acquire" Booz & Company, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. (Booz & Company was once part of Booz Allen Hamilton, but the two companies are not connected today.) WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chairman of Spirit Airlines Said to Be in Talks to Buy Rival Airline | Bill Franke, who is expected to resign as chairman of Spirit Airlines next month, is in talks through his investment firm to buy Frontier Airlines, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Baidu Raises $1 Billion in Sale of Bonds | Baidu, China's largest search engine company, raised the money to help pay for its recent acquisition of a Chinese app store operator, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Aerospace Giant Changes Name to Airbus | The company formerly known as EADS said it would reorganize in three divisions and be renamed the Airbus Group, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
A Plan to Enliven Paris's Financial District | A sprawling array of office buildings known as La Défense was envisioned as Paris's answer to Lower Manhattan or the City of London, but it often seems more like the isolated end of a spoke that highlights a flaw in urban planning. NEW YORK TIMES
BNP Paribas's Earnings Fall 5% | BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, said its second-quarter profit fell 5 percent, to $2.33 billion, as it made additional provisions to cover potential losses in the face of a struggling European economy. DealBook »
Donald J. Mulvihill of Goldman Sachs Has Died | Mr. Mulvihill, a Goldman Sachs managing director who started the bank's asset management business in Japan, has died at 56, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Blackstone and Deutsche Bank Said to Weigh Selling Bonds Tied to Homes | Bloomberg News reports: "Blackstone Group L.P., the private-equity firm that spent $5 billion buying more than 30,000 houses to rent them out, is working with Deutsche Bank AG as it considers creating securities tied to about 1,500 of such properties, according to a person with knowledge of the matter." BLOOMBERG NEWS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
SAC Reinsurance Arm Placed on Review by A.M. Best | Reuters reports: "Insurance rating group A.M. Best said on Tuesday that it is placing SAC Re, the reinsurance arm linked to hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, on review with negative implications less than a week after the fund was hit with criminal insider trading charges." REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Said to Consider Bidding for Hong Kong Supermarket Chain | The private equity firm K.K.R. "is evaluating a bid for billionaire Li Ka-shing's ParknShop supermarket chain, said two people with knowledge of the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Ackman Announces a Stake in Air Products and Chemicals | William A. Ackman's firm Pershing Square Capital Management has amassed a 9.8 percent stake, valued at about $2.2 billion, in the industrial gas company Air Products and Chemicals.
CNBC
Losing Money on Herbalife, Ackman Is Defiant | William A. Ackman, whose hedge fund has lost more than $200 million on its short position on Herbalife, continues to assert that the company is an illegal pyramid scheme. DealBook »
Former Credit Trader at Mizuho Financial Plans New Hedge Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
A Hint of Twitter's I.P.O. Plans | Twitter posted a notice that it was looking to hire a financial reporting manager whose duties would include writing an S-1 document, the filing used to indicate plans to go public. The notice was later taken down. QUARTZ | USA TODAY
Why an Alibaba I.P.O. Is Both Promise and Problem for Yahoo | Yahoo does have some influence, John Foley of Reuters Breakingviews notes. It has a representative on Alibaba's board and the right to appoint an investment bank to help run any offering process. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Uber Says It Is Raising New Money | Uber, the start-up that let users summon cars with an app, said it is seeking "hundreds of millions" of dollars in a new financing round, according to Bloomberg News. "There are discussions under way, we're raising right now," said Travis Kalanick, the chief executive. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Ex-Stock Analyst Charged With Insider Trading in Case Tied to SAC Indictment | A former technology analyst at the research firm Collins Stewart was charged with leaking secret information to at least two different hedge funds, including SAC Capital Advisors. DealBook »
Lawyer Who Beat Chevron Faces Trial of His Own | "Steven R. Donziger - environmental hero or charlatan, depending on whom you talk to - is one of the toughest lawyers around, or slightly crazy," The New York Times writes. "Possibly both." NEW YORK TIMES
Predicting What the Fed Will Say | Reuters writes: "The Federal Reserve likely will decide at the end of a policy meeting on Wednesday to continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace, but it could alter an accompanying statement to spell out the possibility of scaling back purchases later this year." REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



926 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Revealing a Health Care Secret: The Price

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: By clearly posting their prices, The Surgery Center of Oklahoma provides transparency for patients paying their own bills. 

 BODY:
The Surgery Center of Oklahoma is an ambulatory surgical center in Oklahoma City owned by its roughly 40 surgeons and anesthesiologists. What makes it different from every other such facility in America is this: If you need an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, you will know beforehand - because it's on their Web site - that it costs $6,990 if you self-pay in advance. If you need a tonsillectomy, that's $3,600. Repair of a simple closed nasal fracture: $1,900. These prices are all-inclusive.
Keith Smith, the co-founder of the center, said that it had been posting prices for the last 4 of its 16 years. He knew something was happening, he said, when people started coming from Canada. "They could pay $3,740 for arthroscopic surgery of the knee and not have to wait for three years," he said. Then he began getting patients from elsewhere in the United States and began to find out - "I get 8 or 10 e-mails a week" - that he was having an effect on prices far away. "Patients are holding plane tickets to Oklahoma City and printing out our prices, and leveraging better deals in their local markets." 
The Oklahoma City TV station KFOR, which ran a story on the Surgery Center on July 8, said that several other medical facilities in Oklahoma are now posting their prices as well.
KFOR's story has been picked up by news outlets around the United States. Clearly what the Surgery Center has done is resonating.
On NewChoiceHealth.com, which compares prices offered by different facilities in the same city, Smith's prices are consistently the cheapest or near it in Oklahoma City. Several hospitals charge $17,200 for laparoscopic hernia repair - for which Smith charges $3,975. A gallbladder removal is $24,000 at some hospitals in the city; it's $3,200 at the Surgery Center. His prices are better in part because ambulatory surgical centers are cheaper than hospitals (for many reasons), but also there's a virtuous circle here. He can post his prices because they are good ones. And they are good because he's chosen to compete on price.
What's remarkable is that this is remarkable. Why should a business become the subject of news stories simply because it tells people the cost of its services?
Because it's health care. Unlike everything else we buy, when we purchase a medical treatment, surgery or diagnostic test, we buy blind. We do not know the cost of health procedures before we buy. When we do get the bill, we have no idea what the charges are based on and have no way to evaluate them.
The consequences are by now familiar: CNN reports on hospital charges of $1,000 for a toothbrush and $140 for a Tylenol pill. Elisabeth Rosenthal is writing an excellent series on health care costs for The Times - her stories, about the cost of births in America and another comparing American hospital prices to those of other countries, are revealing. 
Americans pay three, four, sometimes 10 times more for medical procedures, operations and tests than people in other countries like Spain, Canada, the Netherlands, New Zealand - although we do not get better care. The most exhaustive catalog of health price horrors - and the most thorough explanation of their causes - is Steven Brill's Time magazine cover story of March 4, "Bitter Pill" (subscription required).
Also familiar are the stakes in this game. Health care costs make up 18 percent of gross domestic product; we spend $8,000 per capita - twice what other industrialized nations do. Government spending on health care costs is a fifth of the federal budget. The growth of health spending is the "single largest fiscal challenge facing the United States government," writes the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
Why are health care costs so high? It's not because of quality; numerous studies have failed to find any correlation between price and quality. Nor is price a function of hospital costs - not when one facility in Oklahoma City can charge 7.5 times what another charges for the same procedure.
One of the most important reasons has to do with the political and market power of health care providers, who are essentially able to name their charges. The foundation of that system is the fact that only sellers, and not buyers, know the price. If prices are secret, patients can't comparison shop. There is no way to push prices down, or force providers to compete on price. Price secrecy hides the need for reform. "Getting prices out in the open is crucial to bringing prices down," said Katherine Hempstead, senior program officer at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Some trends in the health care industry are working against transparency. Price opacity comes from the power imbalance in the health care market, and that imbalance is worsening. Hospital chains are consolidating and growing. This may have advantages for patients in some ways, but it increases the chains' clout and lessens competition. This allows hospitals to fight off demands for transparency.
But most of the events of the last few years - especially the last few months - have moved the United States toward more price transparency.
Every year, hospitals must tell the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services how much it costs them to do each procedure that has a billing code. That information has been publicly available from the C.M.S. since the mid-1990s - but it has been very hard to use the database, and you could get it only in paper form. Now it's easier to use (but not free) on two Web sites: Cost Report Data and American Hospital Directory.
May 8 of this year was the biggest day in health care cost transparency yet. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius released two important databases. One was what Medicare paid for the 100 most common inpatient services at hospitals across the United States. The other was the hospital's chargemaster price.
Chargemaster prices are set by the hospital alone and reflect what the hospital would like you to pay. They are the basis for calculating the discounts given to insurers, and they are generally what's billed to people without insurance. These charges are commonly three times the Medicare price or more, but The Times reported that in the CMS data, some hospitals charged 10 or 20 times the Medicare price. The variation makes your head spin. The average charge for a joint replacement at a hospital in Ada, Okla., was $5,300. The comparable charge in Monterey, Calif., was $223,000.
Some of the factors that are increasing transparency are not happy ones. A big one is the recession, which left a lot of people uninsured for the first time. When you are paying out of pocket for health care, you are a lot more interested in finding out costs.
Then there is sheer desperation born of the significant increases in health care costs. With premiums rising at least 5 percent per year, employers are increasingly pushing costs onto employees - the employee contribution has doubled in the last five years. Employees can't afford more. But employers are hitting their limits, too - it's either stop offering health coverage, or look for really new ways to bring down the cost.
About 40 states now have some kind of health care transparency laws of varying effectiveness (here's a report card that doesn't think much of most of them.) One of the best is New Hampshire's law, which posts information on actual prices paid so patients can compare them.
And there are Web sites. "It used to be only travel agents knew the cost of plane tickets," said Jeanne Pinder, who founded the Web site clearhealthcosts.com, which uses crowdsourcing and reporting (Pinder is a former New York Times reporter) to post prices for shoppable procedures. "Then Kayak and ITA blew that up. If you wanted to buy a house and you asked a Realtor about comparable sales, you'd get, 'That's proprietary.' Now you have Trulia and Zillow."
Now health care is getting its Kayaks and Trulias. New Choice Health's site allows patients to enter a procedure and city to see the range of self-pay prices offered by facilities in that city.
Patients can even solicit bids. There are other sites; here's a list.
It's a long way from Lending Tree or Amazon, but a big step nonetheless. It couldn't have happened even a few years ago. "Providers are increasingly aware they need to have a cash or self-pay price," said Pinder. "When we first started out doing this that wasn't true. They were like, 'What, somebody's uninsured?' "
The Surgery Center of Oklahoma is not the only medical facility that posts its prices. Pharmacy clinics like CVS's Minute Clinics, many urgent care facilities and a small number of hospitals do as well.
I haven't mentioned the elephant in the room, Obamacare. Only it's not an elephant on health care transparency. It will require hospitals to publicly report their charges. But its real job is to increase access to coverage. And while having insurance is crucial, insurance also gives people a reason not to ask the true cost of their medical care. There are ways around this, though - plans with a higher deductible and lower premiums not only give people a reason to compare prices, they are usually a better deal.
The Surgery Center of Oklahoma is probably just the beginning. "You're looking at one example of something that's going to become really, really important," said John C. Goodman, a highly influential conservative health policy analyst. "Once one hospital in a city starts doing it, everyone has to do it. "
Today's column focused mainly on transparency for patients who are paying their own bills. But what about the insured? Is anyone but Steve Brill combing through medical bills to spot the $1,000 toothbrush? You might think that your insurance company is doing that for you. It is not. In my next column in two weeks, I'll look at why.
 Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. 
 Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World" and the World War II spy story e-book "D for Deception." 

        
Better, if Not Cheaper, Care
        
The Arkansas Innovation
        
Better Hand-Washing Through Technology
        
Don't Give Up on Health Care Cost Control
        
Eyeball of Providence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); ENDOSCOPY (89%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); WEB SITES (57%); TRAVEL TICKETS (51%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Oklahoma City (Okla); Surgery and Surgeons; Fixes

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%) OKLAHOMA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Oklahoma City (Okla)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



927 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan's Conciliatory Approach in Washington

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relations with the government. | The age of the hostile takeover appears to be ending. | The Fabrice Tourre case is going to a jury on Wednesday. | Little-known private databases can effectively blacklist Americans from the mainstream financial system. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase is using its checkbook to try to mend frayed relationships with the government, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report in DealBook. But the new and conciliatory approach is yielding mixed results. "Government officials, stung by the bank's past displays of hubris, may drive up the price of settlements or resist the overtures altogether."
On Tuesday, JPMorgan struck a $410 million settlement with the nation's top energy regulator, which had accused the bank of devising "manipulative schemes" to transform "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers." It was a record fine for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. JPMorgan is bracing for an even larger penalty related to shoddy mortgage securities it sold to the government, DealBook reports.
"The bank's new approach comes down, at least in part, to dollars and cents. While the settlements are expensive, they pale in comparison to the sort of legal bills that come with long - and embarrassing - legal battles. The conciliatory tack also reflects a growing recognition among bank executives that JPMorgan was swiftly losing credibility in Washington. At least eight federal agencies are investigating the bank, and some regulators have portrayed JPMorgan as something of a bully." 
FEWER BARBARIANS AT THE GATE | "The hostile takeover is on life support, if it's not dead altogether," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. "This year, there have been a grand total of three hostile offers, according to FactSet MergerMetrics. Two of the three were for small companies worth less $25 million. Last year, there were only 12 hostile bids, FactSet reported. These days, the directors of the 5,000 or so public companies have a better chance of being hurt in a car accident than by a hostile bidder."
So how has the market changed since the 1980s, when corporate raiders bestrode the landscape? "Simply put, the forces on companies to perform better appear to have worked, leaving fewer undervalued targets for hostile bidders," Mr. Davidoff writes. "Hostile takeovers have also become riskier. Not only boards, but shareholders at target companies are much more willing to say no if they feel a bid is underpriced." Still, this development raises a new concern: that the disciplining effect of a hostile takeover threat will disappear.
TOURRE CASE GOES TO JURY | 
Lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission and for Fabrice P. Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, have made their last attempts to influence a nine-member jury, which is set to receive instructions from the judge on Wednesday. Mr. Tourre "was either a greedy scheming liar or a bright young executive just trying to do his job, according to dueling portraits presented during closing arguments Tuesday," Susanne Craig and Michael J. de la Merced write in DealBook.
Matthew Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer, was the first to present his closing remarks and had the last word with jurors. "When it came to lies from the witness stand, Mr. Tourre took the cake," he told jurors. Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, accused the S.E.C. of peddling "half truths" and "deceit." He said, "The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence."
ON THE AGENDA | 
An estimate of gross domestic product in the second quarter is released at 8:30 a.m. The Federal Reserve's policy making committee makes an announcement at 2 p.m. Hess and Hyatt Hotels report earnings before the market opens. MetLife and Yelp report earnings this evening. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs's chief economist, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m.
BLACKLISTED FROM THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM | "Mistakes like a bounced check or a small overdraft have effectively blacklisted more than a million low-income Americans from the mainstream financial system for as long as seven years as a result of little-known private databases that are used by the nation's major banks," Jessica Silver-Greenberg reports in DealBook. "The problem is contributing to the growth of the roughly 10 million households in the United States that lack a banking account, a basic requirement of modern economic life."
"Unlike traditional credit reporting databases, which provide portraits of outstanding debt and payment histories, these are records of transgressions in banking products. Institutions like Bank of America, Citibank and Wells Fargo say that tapping into the vast repositories of information helps them weed out risky customers and combat fraud - a mounting threat for banks. But consumer advocates and state authorities say the use of the databases disproportionately affects lower-income Americans, who tend to live paycheck to paycheck, making them more likely to incur negative marks after relatively minor banking missteps like overdrawing accounts, amassing fees or bouncing checks."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Schneider Electric to Buy Invensys for $5.2 Billion | Schneider Electric of France has agreed to buy the British engineering company Invensys in a cash-and-stock deal worth £3.4 billion, or $5.2 billion. DealBook »
Accenture Said to Be in Talks to Buy Booz & Company | The consulting firm Accenture "is in talks to acquire" Booz & Company, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. (Booz & Company was once part of Booz Allen Hamilton, but the two companies are not connected today.) WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chairman of Spirit Airlines Said to Be in Talks to Buy Rival Airline | Bill Franke, who is expected to resign as chairman of Spirit Airlines next month, is in talks through his investment firm to buy Frontier Airlines, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Baidu Raises $1 Billion in Sale of Bonds | Baidu, China's largest search engine company, raised the money to help pay for its recent acquisition of a Chinese app store operator, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Aerospace Giant Changes Name to Airbus | The company formerly known as EADS said it would reorganize in three divisions and be renamed the Airbus Group, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
A Plan to Enliven Paris's Financial District | A sprawling array of office buildings known as La Défense was envisioned as Paris's answer to Lower Manhattan or the City of London, but it often seems more like the isolated end of a spoke that highlights a flaw in urban planning. NEW YORK TIMES
BNP Paribas's Earnings Fall 5% | BNP Paribas, France's largest bank, said its second-quarter profit fell 5 percent, to $2.33 billion, as it made additional provisions to cover potential losses in the face of a struggling European economy. DealBook »
Donald J. Mulvihill of Goldman Sachs Has Died | Mr. Mulvihill, a Goldman Sachs managing director who started the bank's asset management business in Japan, has died at 56, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Blackstone and Deutsche Bank Said to Weigh Selling Bonds Tied to Homes | Bloomberg News reports: "Blackstone Group L.P., the private-equity firm that spent $5 billion buying more than 30,000 houses to rent them out, is working with Deutsche Bank AG as it considers creating securities tied to about 1,500 of such properties, according to a person with knowledge of the matter." BLOOMBERG NEWS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
SAC Reinsurance Arm Placed on Review by A.M. Best | Reuters reports: "Insurance rating group A.M. Best said on Tuesday that it is placing SAC Re, the reinsurance arm linked to hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, on review with negative implications less than a week after the fund was hit with criminal insider trading charges." REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Said to Consider Bidding for Hong Kong Supermarket Chain | The private equity firm K.K.R. "is evaluating a bid for billionaire Li Ka-shing's ParknShop supermarket chain, said two people with knowledge of the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Ackman Announces a Stake in Air Products and Chemicals | William A. Ackman's firm Pershing Square Capital Management has amassed a 9.8 percent stake, valued at about $2.2 billion, in the industrial gas company Air Products and Chemicals.
CNBC
Losing Money on Herbalife, Ackman Is Defiant | William A. Ackman, whose hedge fund has lost more than $200 million on its short position on Herbalife, continues to assert that the company is an illegal pyramid scheme. DealBook »
Former Credit Trader at Mizuho Financial Plans New Hedge Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
A Hint of Twitter's I.P.O. Plans | Twitter posted a notice that it was looking to hire a financial reporting manager whose duties would include writing an S-1 document, the filing used to indicate plans to go public. The notice was later taken down. QUARTZ | USA TODAY
Why an Alibaba I.P.O. Is Both Promise and Problem for Yahoo | Yahoo does have some influence, John Foley of Reuters Breakingviews notes. It has a representative on Alibaba's board and the right to appoint an investment bank to help run any offering process. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Uber Says It Is Raising New Money | Uber, the start-up that let users summon cars with an app, said it is seeking "hundreds of millions" of dollars in a new financing round, according to Bloomberg News. "There are discussions under way, we're raising right now," said Travis Kalanick, the chief executive. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Ex-Stock Analyst Charged With Insider Trading in Case Tied to SAC Indictment | A former technology analyst at the research firm Collins Stewart was charged with leaking secret information to at least two different hedge funds, including SAC Capital Advisors. DealBook »
Lawyer Who Beat Chevron Faces Trial of His Own | "Steven R. Donziger - environmental hero or charlatan, depending on whom you talk to - is one of the toughest lawyers around, or slightly crazy," The New York Times writes. "Possibly both." NEW YORK TIMES
Predicting What the Fed Will Say | Reuters writes: "The Federal Reserve likely will decide at the end of a policy meeting on Wednesday to continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace, but it could alter an accompanying statement to spell out the possibility of scaling back purchases later this year." REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



928 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2296 words

HEADLINE: The Rock of New Orleans

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. OCHS


HIGHLIGHT: Capt. Andr&#233; Cailloux, the first black hero of the Union Army. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, July 29, 1863, an unprecedented crowd of slaves, runaways and free people of color gathered along the downtown streets of federally occupied New Orleans. They did so not only to honor and bid farewell to one of their own, Capt. André Cailloux of the 1st Regiment of the Louisiana Native Guards, who had fallen at the siege of Port Hudson, La., but also to send a message of defiance to white New Orleanians, most of whom favored the Confederate cause. 
Indeed, Cailloux's funeral, complete with full military honors, served as a black unionist counterpoint to an earlier public tribute on July 15, 1861, when a predominantly white crowd of about 30,000 people turned out to pay tribute to Col. Charles Didier Dreux, the first rebel Louisiana officer killed in the war. Indeed, Cailloux's military funeral, orchestrated by Union military authorities and activist free people of color associated with l'Union newspaper, was a mirror image of the earlier obsequies - an affirmation of black military valor every bit as heroic as anything to which the Confederates could point. 
Captain Cailloux, the first black warrior-hero of the Civil War, was an officer in the first black regiment to be officially mustered into the United States Army and the first to participate in a significant battle. Both in life and in death, he did much to inspire, embolden and unify people of African descent in New Orleans. They elevated him to a near-mythic status, and they invoked his name in their campaigns for emancipation, equal rights and suffrage. (The Emancipation Proclamation did not apply to New Orleans, since the city had fallen to Union forces in the spring of 1862.)
Cailloux's influence extended far beyond New Orleans to include blacks nationwide and their white radical allies as well. His heroic death on May 27, 1863, while leading Company E of the 1st Louisiana Native Guards on a doomed charge against Confederate positions defending Port Hudson, drew widespread national attention. Northern newspapers like The New York Times, The New York Herald and Harper's Weekly, which had urged the use of black combat troops, gave extensive coverage to Cailloux's battlefield courage and to his funeral. 
Like most of the 11,000 free people of color (known as "les gens de couleur libre") living in New Orleans in 1860, Cailloux was Afro-Creole: African and French in ancestry, French in culture and language, and Catholic in religion. He was born a slave on Aug. 25, 1825, in rural Plaquemines Parish, down the Mississippi River from New Orleans. Brought to New Orleans several years later, he learned the cigar-making trade, hired himself out for wages and in 1846, at 21, received his freedom from his owner. Less than a year later, he married Félicie Louise Coulon, herself a recently manumitted slave. 
The couple moved into the ranks of New Orleans's free people of color, who occupied an anomalous legal and social position between whites and slaves within Louisiana's unique tripartite racial caste system. Though they could not vote, free people of color could own property, make contracts and testify and sue in court. They were the most prosperous and literate free black population in the nation, with a majority working as artisans, laborers and shopkeepers. While most free people of color were of mixed-race, they ran the spectrum of skin color. Cailloux, for example, took great pride in boasting that he was the blackest man in the Crescent City. He carved out a respectable life as an artisan, learning to read and write, purchasing a modest house and sending his daughter and two sons to school. 
Nevertheless, during the 1850s, Afro-Creoles in New Orleans had experienced an increasingly inhospitable political and economic climate. When the Civil War began, the Louisiana state government authorized the formation of a militia regiment of free people of color in New Orleans known as the Defenders of the Native Land, or the Louisiana Native Guards - a regiment that the governor intended for show and not for combat. While some free people of color may have enlisted out of a sense of loyalty to their state, most evidently did so out of fear of possible reprisals if they did not. They also probably hoped that their service would translate into improved conditions for them at war's end. 
Whatever his reasons, Cailloux became a first lieutenant in the Guards. Following the Federal capture of New Orleans on May 1, 1862, the Defenders of the Native Land disbanded. In August, however, four officers of the now defunct regiment affirmed their loyalty to the Union cause and urged Gen. Benjamin F. Butler to raise regiments of free people of color. Butler was acutely aware of the hostility of most white New Orleanians to the Union cause, and of ominous military developments that seemed to presage an attack by Confederate forces on the city. He was also cognizant of the recently passed Militia Act that authorized President Lincoln to enroll blacks "for any military or naval service for which they may be found competent." After receiving no response from Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton to his repeated messages seeking permission to enroll free blacks, Butler concluded that he had received tacit permission and proceeded to authorize the recruitment of three regiments of free people of color into the Union Army. 
The vast majority of eligible free men of color in New Orleans joined up. Many bore the same surnames as the men who had enlisted in the Defenders of the Native Land, but these Union recruits represented a new generation. The thousand-man 1st Regiment of Louisiana Native Guards was mustered into federal service on Sept. 20, 1862, and two others quickly followed. These regiments were unique among all of the black units that served in the Civil War, for while the field officers of the new regiments were white, the line, or company, officers were free men of color. 
Cailloux was commissioned a captain and took command of E Company of the 1st Regiment. The 38-year-old captain exuded confidence and authority, cutting a dashing figure that debunked the stereotype of black servility and inferiority. Despite orders that only free men could be accepted for enlistment, Cailloux, like the other black officers, turned a blind eye to the status of recruits, welcoming both free people of color and runaway slaves into the ranks. This action further eroded the institution of slavery in Louisiana while also helping to erode racial, religious, cultural and linguistic barriers that had previously divided people of African descent in the city. 
Cailloux and the rest of the Native Guards faced daunting challenges in the face of bitter white racism. White New Orleanians insulted them in the streets, while white landlords harassed their families and slave owners refused to allow soldiers to have contact with wives who were still slaves. In addition, the federal government failed to honor General Butler's pledge of bounties, equal pay and rations for soldiers' families. White officers snubbed their black counterparts, and white enlisted men refused to salute or obey black officers and showered insults on the enlisted men of the Guards. 
Moreover, the 1st Regiment had difficulty procuring supplies and equipment, and once in the field spent most of its time on guard or fatigue duty, the latter involving back-breaking manual labor that stigmatized black troops and left little time for drill and training. To make matters worse, Gen. Nathanial P. Banks, who replaced Butler in December 1862, mounted a campaign to remove the black officers of the Native Guards, focusing his initial efforts on the 2nd and 3rd regiments. But in the spring of 1863, Cailloux remained at the head of his company, yearning for an opportunity to demonstrate his own and his men's martial valor.
That chance came in May 1863, when the 1st and 3rd Louisiana Native Guards were assigned to General Banks's forces besieging Port Hudson, one of the two remaining Confederate strongholds blocking the Mississippi river. (Vicksburg to the north was the other.) On the morning of May 27, the 1st and 3rd regiments received orders to participate in a general assault on the fortifications surrounding Port Hudson. Their objective was to storm a position on the bluffs protected by rifle pits, a swamp and a rebel engineered backwater from the Mississippi River. Cailloux's company would bear the regimental standards and spearhead the assault over an area fully exposed to rebel fire. 
At 10 a.m. the bugle sounded and the Native Guards, forming a long line two ranks deep, emerged from the woods in good order, advancing toward the bluff about 600 yards away. At a distance of about 200 yards, the Confederates began to unleash withering musket and artillery fire at the advancing troops. The barrage threw the leading elements into confusion and they broke and ran to cover among willow trees. Cailloux and other officers rallied their men several times. Finally, Cailloux led a charge of screaming and shouting men that reached the backwater, about 200 yards from the bluffs. At that point, the Guards fired their first and apparently only volley. By then Cailloux had been hit in the left arm, but he kept going. His arm dangling by his side, Cailloux held his unsheathed sword aloft in his right hand and in French and English hoarsely exhorted his soldiers to follow him. 
As he moved in advance of his troops across the flooded ditch, Confederate artillery opened up with solid shot, grape and canister, while the infantry rained down lead. In the maelstrom of fire, Cailloux was struck in the head and killed. 
Only the availability of trees, stumps and other obstacles prevented a complete slaughter of the rest of the troops. At that point, the 1st Regiment broke and fell back, seeking shelter from Confederate artillery in a nearby willow forest until nightfall. All along the line that day, the Confederates repulsed Union forces, inflicting heavy losses. 
The 1st Regiment, inexperienced and untested in battle and with less training than most white units, had performed honorably under desperate circumstances. The Anglo-African newspaper, published in New York City, editorialized that "The deeds of heroism performed by these colored men were such as the proudest white men might emulate. Their colors were torn to pieces by shot, and literally be-spotted by blood and brains." The battle had shown definitively and affirmatively that black men would fight: "Nobly ... have they acquitted themselves, and proudly may every colored man hereafter hold up his head." Shortly after the Battle of Port Hudson, two other battles - Millikens Bend, La., in June and the much more widely publicized assault by the Massachusetts 54th at Ft. Wagner on Morris Island near Charleston, S.C., in July - provided further vindication of the use of black troops in combat. 
In October 1864, more than a year after Cailloux's public funeral, the National Negro Convention, presided over by Frederick Douglas, convened in Syracuse, N.Y. Its objective was to support ratification of the 13th Amendment banning slavery throughout the nation and to launch a national campaign for black suffrage. The convention literally took up Cailloux's standard and figuratively wrapped itself in it. James H. Ingraham, a veteran of Port Hudson who had taken over command of E Company after Cailloux's death, carried the regimental flag of the 1st Louisiana Native Guards regiment, "stained with the blood of the brave Cailloux," into the hall. The effect on the delegates was electric as they stood and cheered Ingraham and the standard. They insisted on hanging the banner over the speaker's platform and then one delegate after another took the floor and extolled the fallen black captain. The convention created a National Equal Rights League to push for black suffrage. Back in New Orleans, "Cailloux Leagues" were formed in neighborhoods to support the aims of the Equal Rights League. 
Both in life and in death, the strength and courage of Capt. André Cailloux, whose last name could be loosely translated as "the Rock," inspired and united people of African descent in their struggle for that new birth of freedom that Lincoln had so eloquently proclaimed. They could draw hope from words attributed to him: "Man falls! Principles persist!"
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: Sources: Rodolphe Lucien Desdunes, "Our People and Our History," ed. and trans., Sister Dorothea Olga McCants; David C. Edmonds, "The Guns of Port Hudson: The Investment, Siege, and Reduction," Vol. II; James G. Hollandsworth, "The Louisiana Native Guards: The Black Military Experience During the Civil War," and Stephen J. Ochs, "A Black Patriot and a White Priest: André Cailloux and Claude Pashal Maistre in Civil War New Orleans"; Marcus Christian, "Captain André Cailloux: The Rock," Parts I and II, Louisiana Weekly, Aug. 3 and 10, 1957; The Anglo-African, Aug. 15, 1863; National Anti- Slavery Standard, Aug. 15, 1863; Daily Picayune (New Orleans), July 30, 1863; The New York Times, Aug. 8 and 9, 1863; Harper's Weekly, Aug. 29, 1863. 
 Stephen J. Ochs, the Lawler Chair of History at Georgetown Preparatory School in North Bethesda, Md., is the author of "A Black Patriot and a White Priest: André Cailloux and Claude Pashal Maistre in Civil War New Orleans," "Desegregating the Altar: The Josephites and the Struggle for Black Catholic Priests, 1871-1960" and, most recently, "A Cause Greater Than Self: The Journey of Captain Michael J. Daly, World War II Medal of Honor Recipient." 

        
Black New York and the Draft Riots
        
Gotham's Only Black Millionaire
        
'The Old Flag Never Touched the Ground'
        
Striking the Blow at Fort Wagner
        
New York's Mixed-Race Riot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); SLAVERY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); RELIGION (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (55%) Blacks; Civil War (US) (1861-65); New Orleans (La); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



929 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending and Growth: A Rejoinder

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Casey Mulligan may take issue with my view that weak consumer spending undermines economic growth, but he misses some of the nuances of my position, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
I see that I have "startled" Casey Mulligan with my post last week, which he has addressed in an interesting post. He contends that contrary to my assertion that there are times when inequality damps middle-class consumer spending at the expense of aggregate growth, it is only investment, never consumption, that determines growth of gross domestic product. 
Professor Mulligan writes, "High levels of consumer spending are a consequence of economic growth, not a cause of it." 
Well, sometimes it is and sometimes it isn't.
I actually tried to be more nuanced in my piece than Professor Mulligan's critique suggests. I wrote (the important distinction is now in bold):
My point is that the inequality affects growth through many channels. In demand-constrained periods like the present, it weakens consumer spending and growth because the small share of beneficiaries of what growth there is have lower consumption propensities than everybody else. But in debt-driven expansions, inequality appears to play an integral role in terribly damaging bubbles inflated by stagnant incomes, underpriced risk and leveraged consumption.
Note that in the debt-driven case, I offer what I think is pretty interesting evidence of inequality interacting with the debt bubble in ways that actually increased middle-class spending.
So let's review where Professor Mulligan and I agree and disagree. I'm totally with him on the importance of investment and innovation as fuel for growth, though here, too - as he himself notes - we should be concerned by recent research building compelling and troubling linkages between inequality and inadequate investments in lower-income children.
Where we disagree is how the normal growth dynamics change when the economy is operating with excess slack, particularly in the job market, i.e., times like now. In that case, it is widely accepted - in fact, it's standard issue in all the economics textbooks Professor Mulligan cites - that Keynesian stimulus can lead to faster growth than would otherwise occur, much of which occurs through more consumer spending, and particularly spending by those on the have-not side of the inequality divide.
As the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz wrote recently about the reasons inequality is impeding an economic recovery: 
The most immediate is that our middle class is too weak to support the consumer spending that has historically driven our economic growth. While the top 1 percent of income earners took home 93 percent of the growth in incomes in 2010, the households in the middle - who are most likely to spend their incomes rather than save them and who are, in a sense, the true job creators - have lower household incomes, adjusted for inflation, than they did in 1996.
This is not complicated. All you have to believe is the following: 
¶There are people who want to work more but can't find either jobs or the hours of work they seek; in fact, there are more than 20 million people (over 14 percent) in the current work force who are involuntarily un- or underemployed.
¶Many of them are income-constrained; as per Professor Stiglitz, if they had more income they would spend it. Though the economy has expanded since the second half of 2009, real median household income is down 4.4 percent.The inflation-adjusted stock market is up 60 percent and corporate profits are at a record high relative to national income, so there's your inequality: the economy's growing but it's not reaching the middle on down.
¶If less inequality - or stimulative fiscal or monetary policy - steered more growth to lower-income households, they'd be more likely to spend the extra dollar than a non-income-constrained rich family (see the statistics on this in my earlier post). That's certainly what the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office believes (see Table 2) as it applies a G.D.P. growth multiplier that's more than three times larger for transfer payments to those with lower incomes than tax cuts for the wealthy.
Most economists would consider that logic and evidence a slam dunk linking spending to growth during periods like the present, when high inequality and high unemployment are steering growth away from those with higher consumption propensities. There's even evidence that investment follows consumer spending at times like this, as companies and their investors need to see customers before they undertake projects, even as interest rates have been historically low (it's not a coincidence that in the current economy we have both weak demand and corporations that are sitting on large stores of investment capital). 
But what about in normal periods when the economy is not demand-constrained? Here Professor Mulligan is on more mainstream ground. When we're at full employment, most economists would agree that there's no reason to try to boost one group's consumption over that of another. There's no "middle-out growth" in normal times. There's just growth.
He may be right, but the problem is this: for most of the last few decades - two-thirds of the time by my count - we haven't been at full employment. There's been too much slack in the job market, and that may well make the middle-out story operative beyond times like the present.
Finally, and here again Professor Mulligan and I might agree, as I elaborated in my post, that too much inequality leads to financial instability, which is obviously bad for consumption, investment and growth.

        
Growth From the Middle Out, and How It Works
        
Income and Living Standards
        
The Complex Story of Race and Upward Mobility
        
A Mobility Prophet
        
Inequality, Mobility and the Policy Agenda They Imply

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INFLATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%) Congressional Budget Office; Consumer Behavior; Income Inequality; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (78%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



930 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Jury Begins Deliberations in Tourre Trial

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: After nearly an hour and a half of legal instructions, the federal government&#8217;s civil lawsuit against a former Goldman Sachs trader went to a jury on Wednesday morning. 

 BODY:
The federal government's lawsuit against Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader accused of misleading investors in a mortgage security six years ago, went to a jury Wednesday morning, setting up the end to one of the most prominent cases to arise from the financial crisis. 
After nearly an hour and a half of legal instructions, the presiding judge, Katherine B. Forrest of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan, formally allowed the nine-member jury to begin deliberations.
It is now up to the jurors, including a former stockbroker, a minister and a graphic designer, to decide whether Mr. Tourre committed fraud as he set up a complex investment tied to mortgages. The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Tourre of misleading investors about the role of a client, the hedge fund Paulson & Company, which wanted to bet against the security.
He faces seven counts of fraud. Because it is a civil suit, the S.E.C. need only have convinced jurors with a preponderance of evidence, rather than beyond a reasonable doubt, the standard in a criminal trial.
The jurors must agree unanimously on each count. The jury did not reach a verdict on Wednesday and will continue deliberations on Thursday.
While the jury was sequestered, lawyers for both the S.E.C. and the defense talked among themselves, occasionally trying to one up each other on jokes that included financial jargon from the trial. "I have a virtual office but I now call it my synthetic office," one lawyer said, referring to a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, the security Mr. Tourre is accused of deceiving investors on. 
Mr. Tourre, 34, kept to himself for the most part, reading The New York Times and The Economist.
The jurors listened to more than two weeks of sometimes combative testimony, including from Mr. Tourre. Much of the trial was laden with complex jargon that both the S.E.C. and the defense team acknowledged was likely to make jurors' eyes glaze over. Several jurors appeared to doze off during the more technically dense parts of the trial.
If the jury finds Mr. Tourre liable, the judge and the S.E.C. will decide what penalties are appropriate. Judge Forrest would have the final say on financial penalties, from the forfeiture of any profits made from the investment to fines.
A forfeiture order would be relatively subjective, depending on the definition of profits. Goldman earned fees for its work in constructing the mortgage security but lost money on its own investment position. Fines, however, could range from $5,000 to about $130,000 for each violation.
Fines could be levied for only six of the seven counts, because one charge is tied to Goldman, which has already settled charges by paying $550 million.
Goldman, which is already paying the bill for Mr. Tourre's legal fees, is permitted to pay for any disgorgement of profits ordered by the court but is not permitted to pay fines, legal specialists say.
If Mr. Tourre is found liable, he also faces a potential ban from the securities industry.

        
In Tourre Trial, S.E.C. Wages Battle Against Its Own Witness
        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (93%); JURY TRIALS (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); VERDICTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); JUDGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); ASSET FORFEITURE (58%) Forrest, Katherine B; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Manhattan (NYC); Mortgage-Backed Securities; Paulson & Co; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Paulson &amp; Co; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%) Forrest, Katherine B; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



931 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Why Republicans Miss The Realists

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: On foreign policy, the G.O.P. looks increasingly like a party without a center. 

 BODY:
Chris Christie's comments attacking Rand Paul and other right-wing civil libertarians, extracted by my colleague Jonathan Martin in an Aspen forum last week, have generally been interpreted as setting Christie up as a spokesman for Republican hawks in a looming 2016 battle over the party's direction on foreign policy. On Friday, Politico's Alexander Burns ran down some polling numbers that help explain why the more hawkish perspective is no longer an obvious political winner, even in a G.O.P. primary:
... there are also more than a few daunting data points for the anti-Paul coalition within the GOP - signs in public opinion research that the country has moved substantially from the Bush-era national security consensus. 
A Washington Post poll this week showed 67 percent of Americans believe the war in Afghanistan is not worth fighting, including a bare majority of Republicans. An extensive Pew survey published Friday found a mixed public attitude on surveillance: half of Americans said they approve of the government's information-collecting, but 56 percent said courts weren't providing adequate oversight and a 47-percent plurality said the government had done too much to limit civil liberties. And public polls consistently show public hesitation about possible U.S. intervention in Syria, where the United Nations reports 100,000 have been killed in a civil war as dictator Bashar al-Assad clings to power.
As Matt Yglesias pointed on Twitter, those Pew numbers on civil liberties included a striking turnaround since 2010 (not 2008, as one would expect if it were all just a partisan swing) among Tea Partiers and conservatives, who now tilt more sharply than G.O.P. moderates in favor of the proposition that the government has traded too much liberty for security. So as odd as it is, especially for anyone who experienced the Bush era, to hear a non-interventionist Republican attacking a tough-on-terror Republican for being too "liberal," given the current shape of Republican opinion Rand Paul's framing of his debate with Christie is defensible: By invoking 9/11 to defend the N.S.A.'s surveillance programs, the New Jersey governor was arguably attacking Paul from the left.
So with the usual categories thus scrambled, it will be extremely interesting to see how this plays out. The good news for Republicans is that the debate itself is a sign of intellectual health: After the foreign policy failures of the Bush era, the party needs a vigorous internal argument about national security - at least if it ever hopes to regain the public's trust on those issues, instead of just recycling cliches about toughness and resolve a la the Romney campaign. But the bad news is that in the short term, this argument has the potential to open a real cleavage in the right-of-center coalition. I don't think John McCain would actually endorse Hillary Clinton in 2016 because I don't think Rand Paul will actually be the G.O.P. nominee, but neither do I think McCain is just making an empty threat in this interview: A G.O.P. primary campaign carried out along the lines of his Senate feud with Paul really would have the potential to fracture the party's general-election unity.
With that being said, the "hawk vs. libertarian, McCain vs. Paul" binary is also not the only way a savvy Republican politician might approach these debates. For instance, there is no necessary reason why, having taken the pro-N.S.A. position on one front, a figure like Christie would also need to support an American military intervention in Syria or a permanent U.S. presence in Afghanistan. Indeed, from a purely political, poll-reading perspective he would have every reason to cast his domestic tough guy routine as an alternative to foreign warmaking: Both the country and his party may be divided on civil liberties, but there's a clear American and Republican consensus against, say, adding Syria to the list of American kinetic military actions. Whatever you think of the position that George W. Bush was right about the war on terror but wrong about regime change, it's a potential sweet spot for a conservative politician trying to appeal to a war-weary party and country both.
However, I'm doubtful that Christie will ultimately take this kind of split-the-difference tack, because with the eclipse of foreign-policy realism within the G.O.P. there's a shortage of potential advisers and influencers who represent any kind of middle way between crusading interventionism and Paul-style libertarianism. And if that debate does end up splitting the party in 2016, it could be a case study in why the Eisenhower/Nixon/H.W. Bush realists were so useful to the Cold War-era G.O.P., and why the party misses them today.
The realists weren't particularly liked by anyone else within the conservative tent: They were too squishy for the Birchers and later too cautious for the neocons, too internationalist for the party's Jacksonian base, too pro-defense spending for the libertarians, too Arabist for pro-Israel Republicans, too willing to use force for the paleocons and Buchananites. (This is part of why Eisenhower's presidency is criminally underrated within his own party.) And there were many non-foreign policy reasons why their influence diminished over time: They were mostly social liberals and economic moderates, and as time went by and WASP Republicanism waned as a force in our politics, they increasingly lacked any electoral constituency to speak of on the right.
But their persistent role in Republican administrations, from Ike's two terms down to Robert Gates's tenure as Bush's defense secretary, was deeply important to the G.O.P.'s longstanding advantage on foreign policy. By embodying a version of internationalism that clearly put the national interest first, and a form of Daddy-Party toughness that didn't necessarily entail starting wars willy-nilly, the realists both helped the party manage its internal tensions on foreign policy - bridging divides between isolationists and advocates of "rollback," paleocons and neocons - and present a credible, competent and non-scary face to the American public as a whole.
That's something the post-Bush party has thus far failed to do. And if any 2016 candidate wants to unite their party on foreign policy rather than just polarizing it, reaching for the realist legacy might be a decent place to start.

        
Republicans and the Rich
        
George W. Bush in Hindsight
        
Rand Paul, Realism and Republican Reform
        
Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future
        
Libertarian Populism and Its Limits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%) Afghanistan; Bush, George W; Christie, Christopher J; Civil Rights and Liberties; Defense and Military Forces; Eisenhower, Dwight David; Gates, Robert M; Iraq; McCain, John; Paul, Rand; Polls and Public Opinion; Republican Party; Syria; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RAND PAUL (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); ROBERT M GATES (72%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (56%) Bush, George W; Christie, Christopher J; Eisenhower, Dwight David; Gates, Robert M; McCain, John; Paul, Rand

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (79%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Syria

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



932 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Financial Firm Courts Start-Ups in Brazil

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: In recent months, one of SVB Financial Group&#8217;s subsidiaries, Silicon Valley Bank, has added venture capital firms and young companies in Brazil as clients. And SVB Capital, another subsidiary, expects to make new investments in South American venture capital firms. 

 BODY:
SÁO PAULO, Brazil - The SVB Financial Group in California has long been an important banker and investor in American venture capital firms and technology start-ups. Now, the company is testing the waters in South America, particularly Brazil.
In recent months, one of SVB's subsidiaries, Silicon Valley Bank, has added venture capital firms and young companies in the region as clients. In May, it met with the mayor of the Brazilian city Porto Alegre at its Santa Clara, Calif., headquarters. 
And SVB Capital, another subsidiary, expects to make new investments in South American venture capital firms from its latest fund of funds, the American-based $322.8 million Strategic Investors Fund VI, which closed last month.
SVB's interest has been piqued by a still nascent but vibrant start-up ecosystem in Brazil. But it also comes as Brazil's economy is lagging and social unrest abounds. This month, Nomura Securities lowered its estimates of the country's economic output for both this year and 2014. The Brazilian Central Bank also raised its benchmark interest rate earlier this month for the third-consecutive time this year in response to concerns about rising inflation. 
But the cooling economy does not seem to concern SVB Financial, which has more than $22 billion in assets. "I think it is good for everybody when things pull back a little bit," said Aaron Gershenberg, managing partner for SVB Capital. Indeed, valuations have fallen and deal-making is less rushed.
Andy Tsao, the Silicon Valley Bank managing director in charge of the global gateway initiative, said he was not particularly worried about the large street demonstrations against corruption and inadequate public services. The protests, "while sometimes a bit chaotic, seem to be something generally positive for Brazil," he said.
"We are still bullish for the long term," he said.
Silicon Valley Bank is initially focusing on providing banking services to start-ups and venture capital firms in Brazil and South America that have offshore accounts denominated in United States dollars. 
In just over a year since it started meeting people in Brazil, the bank has added as clients 80 companies and 10 venture capital firms from countries including Argentina, Uruguay and Chile, as well as Brazil. They include the online real estate listing company VivaReal, the Brazilian venture capital firm Monashees Capital and the Argentine venture capital firm Ax Ventures, and their portfolio companies. 
Lisandro Bril, an Ax Ventures managing director, said he was pleased with SVB's interest in his firm, "Nobody provides services to my companies that SVB does," he said. "There is zero lending and zero access to financing in the region." He said he first tried to get the firm's attention in the 1990s but to no avail. 
Monashees dropped JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley for SVB in 2012, according to a person with direct knowledge who did not want to be named because the discussions were confidential.
Banking has resulted in additional business for SVB. Monashees and the Redpoint e.Ventures $130 million fund were the first two South American-based funds SVB Capital invested in, both last year.
With the new Strategic Investors Fund VI fund, SVB Capital expects that it will continue to to invest in both firms. Mr. Gershenberg said that if they executed their strategy, "we are going to stick with those guys for two or three funds. That is our expectation." 
And even while the fund of funds will be focused on investments in the United States he said that "we will add one maybe two names." Kaszek Ventures, based in Buenos Aires, is one venture capital firm he identified as a top candidate.
SVB Financial is also keeping an eye on some accelerators and incubators in the region. It sponsored 21212's Demo Day for technology start-ups in Rio de Janeiro last year, and Silicon Valley Bank has provided banking services to the portfolio companies of NXTP Labs, a seed fund accelerator in Buenos Aires. 
This exposes SVB to the start-up market in Brazil at an early stage. That has also been their approach in the United States.
Today, it says it counts more than 50 percent of all venture capital-backed technology and life science companies as clients. Its stock, which closed Tuesday at $87.54, is up nearly 50 percent from a year ago. 
Profits have risen. Last week, SVB Financial posted net income for the second quarter of $48.6 million, or earnings of $1.06 a share, beating analysts' estimates. That compared with a net income of $47.6 million in the same quarter last year. 
While most of its income comes from its business in the United States, the company is expanding globally. Over the last decade, it has set up offices in Britain, China, India and Israel. It has also invested in venture capital funds in those countries.
And now, SVB Financial is spending time in Australia, Russia and Turkey, places it considers important to new business.
How aggressively the firm expands in Brazil is uncertain. Setting up a full commercial bank is a possibility, although that does not appear to be its current focus. Brazil has a robust and competitive banking industry.
But some in the industry say that SVB Financial will soon need to start providing local financing to attract larger companies. In the United States, a question mark for SVB has been its ability to retain clients as they grow, although that has improved in recent years.
Still, many in the industry said that SVB Financial could fill an important void in Brazil and would like to see it expand more aggressively. 
"Their potential in the Brazilian market is huge," said Everson Lopes, portfolio director with the Rio de Janeiro venture capital firm Ideiasnet. He said that was probably because "the major commercial Brazilian banks are not able to provide good services to start-ups and young companies, especially in technology." They demand assets most of these companies lack.
 Francisco Alvarez-Demalde, a founder and partner at Riverwood Capital Partners, a private equity firm with investments in South America, also said the lack of debt financing options in the region for early stage companies beckons a larger role for SVB. "They could really push the region and make a real difference," he said.

        
Despite Stumbles, a Promising Path for Start-Ups in Brazil
        
Brazil Steps Up Investments in Overlooked Tech Start-Ups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TRENDS (73%); CORRUPTION (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INFLATION (68%) Brazil; Economic Conditions and Trends; Start-ups; SVB Financial Group; Venture Capital; Hedge Funds; Technology

COMPANY: SVB FINANCIAL GROUP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SVB Financial Group

TICKER: SIVB (NASDAQ) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (95%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



933 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Why Republicans Miss The Realists

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: On foreign policy, the G.O.P. looks increasingly like a party without a center. 

 BODY:
Chris Christie's comments attacking Rand Paul and other right-wing civil libertarians, extracted by my colleague Jonathan Martin in an Aspen forum last week, have generally been interpreted as setting Christie up as a spokesman for Republican hawks in a looming 2016 battle over the party's direction on foreign policy. On Friday, Politico's Alexander Burns ran down some polling numbers that help explain why the more hawkish perspective is no longer an obvious political winner, even in a G.O.P. primary:
... there are also more than a few daunting data points for the anti-Paul coalition within the GOP - signs in public opinion research that the country has moved substantially from the Bush-era national security consensus. 
A Washington Post poll this week showed 67 percent of Americans believe the war in Afghanistan is not worth fighting, including a bare majority of Republicans. An extensive Pew survey published Friday found a mixed public attitude on surveillance: half of Americans said they approve of the government's information-collecting, but 56 percent said courts weren't providing adequate oversight and a 47-percent plurality said the government had done too much to limit civil liberties. And public polls consistently show public hesitation about possible U.S. intervention in Syria ...
As Matt Yglesias pointed on Twitter, those Pew numbers on civil liberties included a striking turnaround since 2010 (not 2008, as one would expect if it were all just a partisan swing) among Tea Partiers and conservatives, who now tilt more sharply than G.O.P. moderates in favor of the proposition that the government has traded too much liberty for security. So as odd as it is, especially for anyone who experienced the Bush era, to hear a non-interventionist Republican attacking a tough-on-terror Republican for being too "liberal," given the current shape of Republican opinion Rand Paul's framing of his debate with Christie is defensible: By invoking 9/11 to defend the N.S.A.'s surveillance programs, the New Jersey governor was arguably attacking Paul from the left.
With the Bush-era categories thus scrambled, it will be extremely interesting to see how this plays out. The good news for Republicans is that the debate itself is a sign of intellectual health: After the foreign policy failures of the Bush era, the party needs a vigorous internal argument about national security - at least if it ever hopes to regain the public's trust on those issues, instead of just recycling cliches about toughness and resolve a la the Romney campaign. But the bad news is that in the short term, this argument has the potential to open a real cleavage in the right-of-center coalition. I don't think John McCain would actually endorse Hillary Clinton in 2016 because I don't think Rand Paul will actually be the G.O.P. nominee, but neither do I think McCain is just making an empty threat in this interview: A G.O.P. primary campaign carried out along the lines of his Senate feud with Paul really would have the potential to fracture the party's general-election unity.
With that being said, the "hawk vs. libertarian, McCain vs. Paul" binary is also not the only way a savvy Republican politician might approach these debates. For instance, there is no necessary reason why, having taken the pro-N.S.A. position on one front, a figure like Christie would also need to support an American military intervention in Syria or a permanent U.S. presence in Afghanistan. Indeed, from a purely political, poll-reading perspective he would have every reason to cast his domestic tough guy routine as an alternative to foreign warmaking: Both the country and his party may be divided on civil liberties, but there's a clear American and Republican consensus against, say, adding Syria to the list of American kinetic military actions. Whatever you think of the position that George W. Bush was right about the war on terror but wrong about regime change, it's a potential sweet spot for a conservative politician trying to appeal to a war-weary party and country both.
However, I'm doubtful that Christie will ultimately take this kind of split-the-difference tack, because with the eclipse of foreign-policy realism within the G.O.P. there's a shortage of potential advisers and influencers who represent any kind of middle way between crusading interventionism and Paul-style libertarianism. And if that debate does end up splitting the party in 2016, it could be a case study in why the Eisenhower/Nixon/H.W. Bush realists were so useful to the Cold War-era G.O.P., and why the party misses them today.
The realists weren't particularly liked by anyone else within the conservative tent: They were too squishy for the Birchers and later too cautious for the neocons, too internationalist for the party's Jacksonian base, too pro-defense spending for the libertarians, too Arabist for pro-Israel Republicans, too willing to use force for the paleocons and Buchananites. (This is part of why Eisenhower's presidency is criminally underrated within his own party.) And there were many non-foreign policy reasons why their influence diminished over time: They were mostly social liberals and economic moderates, and as time went by and WASP Republicanism waned as a force in our politics, they increasingly lacked any electoral constituency to speak of on the right.
But their persistent role in Republican administrations, from Ike's two terms down to Robert Gates's tenure as Bush's defense secretary, was deeply important to the G.O.P.'s longstanding advantage on foreign policy. By embodying a version of internationalism that clearly put the national interest first, and a form of Daddy-Party toughness that didn't necessarily entail starting wars willy-nilly, the realists both helped the party manage its internal tensions on foreign policy - bridging divides between isolationists and advocates of "rollback," paleocons and neocons - and present a credible, competent and non-scary face to the American public as a whole.
That's something the post-Bush party has thus far failed to do. And if any 2016 candidate wants to unite their party on foreign policy rather than just polarizing it, reaching for the realist legacy might be a decent place to start.

        
Republicans and the Rich
        
George W. Bush in Hindsight
        
Rand Paul, Realism and Republican Reform
        
Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future
        
Libertarian Populism and Its Limits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (83%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%) Afghanistan; Bush, George W; Christie, Christopher J; Civil Rights and Liberties; Defense and Military Forces; Eisenhower, Dwight David; Gates, Robert M; Iraq; McCain, John; Paul, Rand; Polls and Public Opinion; Republican Party; Syria; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RAND PAUL (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); ROBERT M GATES (72%) Bush, George W; Christie, Christopher J; Eisenhower, Dwight David; Gates, Robert M; McCain, John; Paul, Rand

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (79%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Syria

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



934 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A Suburban Jersey Spin in the 2014 Ford Fiesta

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Ford&#8217;s new Fiesta, although not big on power, is a nice-looking way to get from place to place for little money. 

 BODY:
Ford gave us an opportunity to take its 2014 Fiesta for a spin Tuesday morning; great timing, considering it would have been Henry Ford's 150th birthday. From the brief interaction I had with the car, the new Fiesta turned out to be a capable, if somewhat predictable, economy car. But there was one thing that set it apart from its competition: styling.
Ford can make all the claims it wants about the car's fantastic fuel economy - when equipped with the plain-Jane 1.6-liter engine and an automatic transmission, the E.P.A. estimates that the Fiesta gets 30 miles per gallon in the city and 40 m.p.g. on the highway - and up-to-date gadgetry, but what first caught my notice was the bold colors available on the car. A line of Fiestas sat on a breakwater in Atlantic Highlands, N.J., Tuesday, their bright red, brilliant blue and electric green paint popping out against the harbor's blue-gray water. 
The undoubtedly Aston Martin-esque grille that made its debut on the 2013 Ford Fusion has found its way to the Fiesta's previously unremarkable front fascia. It makes a difference, and Ford seems to know that, making sure the chromed luxury sports car hint is the leading edge of even the base Fiesta. The alphabet soup Ford uses to distinguish various Fiesta trim levels was a little confusing (S, SE, Titanium, ST), but the bottom line seemed to be that the ST, which was not available for testing Tuesday, is the one you want.
Luckily, Ford kept our short driving loop away from hills and freeways. I say that because performance on the Fiesta's base, normally aspirated 1.6-liter 4-cylinder engine in the car I tested recalled the days, 30 years ago, when economy cars got great gas mileage because they lacked power. John Davis, chief engineer for Ford's North American small-car lineup, and also my back-seat passenger, said the Fiesta topped out at about 113 miles per hour, speed-wise. Just as well, as its suspension and wheels aren't designed for high speed. But getting up to such a clip wouldn't be easy. The 1.6 is just fine, and about what anyone could reasonably expect from an economy car, but it wasn't really what I'd call sprightly. Mr. Davis told me its peak power comes at about the 5,000 r.p.m. range, and in normal city driving, it's difficult to keep a car's mill wound up that high.
With Mr. Davis in the back seat, I felt a little self conscious about driving the Fiesta I'd been assigned into the upper reaches of its r.p.m. range. Doing so isn't the way most placid suburban motorists behave, and because we were in a placid suburban environment, I decided to follow suit. And in normal traffic, on normal roads, not having a ton of power didn't matter. The little car did everything it was supposed to in coastal New Jersey's mellow late morning traffic. Which is to say, it got me from one place to another without breaking down or otherwise embarrassing me.
Now that I've stated the obvious about the base-engine's mild performance, I'll move on to note that the manual transmission-equipped car I tested was fun to drive. It was small, and at about 2,700 pounds, relatively light, making cornering fast and fun. There was a bit of a lag to the car's electric-assist steering, but once I got used to how it responded to a quick jerk to one side or the other - the delay had surprised me when, five minutes after sliding behind the wheel, I had to swerve to avoid running over some shoes that had been spilled onto a 40-m.p.h. thoroughfare - it was O.K.
The car's interior was delightfully simple, with an updated version of the three-main-knob control layouts that used to be common on cars in the '90s. The center stack appeared uncluttered, and although the 6.5-inch MyFord Touch infotainment center screen was affixed to the top of the dash in what looked to be the manner of an afterthought, it was simple enough to use.
The sedan version, which I did not drive, managed to look a bit more elegant than its hatchback sibling, and its cargo space, although not as tall as the hatchback's, was much larger than I expected it to be. Mr. Davis told me that although the sedan looked longer than the hatch, they had the same dimensions. For front-seat passengers, space was adequate, although I can't imagine larger drivers and/or passengers being especially comfortable in a Fiesta. A car full of six-footers might also be a tight squeeze. But for my narrow, not especially tall frame, the driver's and passenger's seats were comfortable and supportive. Although here's a thought for window-sill arm hangers: the Fiesta's sills are high and make a casual arm drape an awkward, high chicken wing affair.
For someone who needs a little runabout, or something that could take two people and some luggage on long trips for little money, the Fiesta seems like it would be fine. Even if, on base lower-end models, there's nothing inside to remind the driver of its exterior attractiveness, the Fiesta is comfortable, and stepping out at the end of a drive, bright colors, nice lines and that astonishing grille are sure to make a person feel good about the car.
Still, I'm looking forward to trying out the 123-horsepower 1.-liter EcoBoost and the ST Fiestas that Ford officials kept talking about on Tuesday. Ford told me that the ST would cost more than $21,000 to start; about $6,000 more than the base Fiesta sedan (which includes little besides wheels and seats, and only comes in boring colors), according to the Ford Web site. After getting online and building the Fiesta I'd entertain owning - the one with the 197-horsepower engine, Molten Orange paint and Recaro partial leather seats - the little car left its econo-roots as the price climbed to nearly $26,000.

        
G.M. Enters the 3-Cylinder Engine Arms Race
        
Cummins at the Brickyard: Diesel Racecars Are Nothing New
        
Wheelies: The End of an Era Edition
        
Wheelies: The Cheaper Used Cars Edition
        
How Do You Find the Best Green Cars?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (74%); SPORTS CARS (72%) automobiles; Engines; Ford Motor Co; Fuel Efficiency; Highlands (NJ); New Jersey; North America; Automobiles; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; New Cars

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Highlands (NJ); New Jersey; North America

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



935 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: The Silent Partner Behind the Shale Energy Boom - Taxpayers

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A closer look at the public investments behind the private success of a shale-fracking pioneer. 

 BODY:
Since 2011, Alex Trembath, a tireless and talented energy analyst at nonprofit The Breakthrough Institute, has been digging into the complicated history of public and private initiatives and investments that unlocked the vast gas and oil resource contained in layers of shale rock.
He charted evidence that investments in basic research, testing and development by the federal government lay behind the private-sector initiatives that have since fundamentally reshaped global forecasts for energy, economies and geopolitics. 
After I ran Daniel Yergin's reflection on the pivotal role played in the shale boom by George P. Mitchell, the Texas energy entrepreneur and philanthropist who died last Friday, Trembath and the leaders of Breakthrough, Michael Shellenberger and Ted Nordhaus, sent a reaction focused on the silent partner in this energy revolution - the American taxpayer. Here's their post:
 George Mitchell, Champion of Public-Private Innovation

 Alex Trembath, Michael Shellenberger and Ted Nordhaus 
George Mitchell, celebrated father of the American shale fracking revolution, died last week, leaving behind a strong reputation as innovator-philanthropist and the legacy of cheap and abundant energy in the United States. His vision and persistence are not to be understated.
But some admirers, who paint George Mitchell as a lone innovator experimenting in his backyard, do him a disservice by ignoring the full history of the shale gas revolution. The richer and more complete story reveals that George Mitchell did not act alone, but rather was the beneficiary of decades of U.S. federal investments in fossil energy innovation.
The U.S. federal government spent billions of dollars over three decades to make today's shale gas revolution a reality. Our investigations and interviews at the Breakthrough Institute made this history abundantly clear, and the story has been underscored by independent reports by the American Energy Innovation Council, Resources for the Future, the New York Times, and the Associated Press.
The entire shale fracking endeavor began as a somewhat quixotic, patriotic ambition within fledgling federal energy research programs. Scientists had long understood the geology of shales and knew there was gas to be had. But everyone assumed it was unreachable. There's a reason that the shale gas, tight sands gas, and other natural gas deposits that now make up half of U.S. gas production are still called "unconventional." With domestic gas production on the decline in the 1970s and policymakers eager for alternatives to imported oil, shale gas was one of several such radical resource bases that federal geologists tried to tap.
So much of the innovative work on shale gas was underwritten or led by federal agencies and laboratories, who later proved eager to share their results with George Mitchell in his quest to crack the Barnett shale in Texas. The energy industry, known as markedly less innovative than other sectors like health and IT, lived up to this reputation over the several decades. Fred Julander of the National Petroleum Council remembers "the Department of Energy was there with research funding when no one else was interested."
What were the taxpayer subsidies for the shale gas revolution? They included:

        
The Eastern Gas Shales Project, a series of public-private shale drilling demonstration projects in the early 1970s in response to the energy crisis;
        
Collaboration with the Gas Research Institute (GRI), an industry research consortia that received partial funding and R&D oversight from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission;
        
Early shale fracturing and directional drilling technologies developed by the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA, later the Department of Energy), the Bureau of Mines, and the Morgantown Energy Research Center (later the National Energy Technology Laboratory);
        
The Section 29 tax credit for unconventional gas production, in effect from 1980-2002;
        
Public subsidization and cost-sharing for demonstration projects, including the first successful multi-fracture horizontal drilling play 1986 and Mitchell Energy's first horizontal well in 1991;
        
Three-dimensional microseismic imaging, a geologic mapping technology developed by Sandia National Laboratories.
Few companies pursued shale plays, often drilling past shale minerals to reach sandstone deposits underneath. Public researchers considered shale gas a moonshot at best. Alex Crawley, one of the leading engineers working on shale gas for the Department of Energy, recalls his efforts derided as "Crawley's folly." Mitchell Energy engineers encountered numerous obstacles to successful shale plays before partnering with federal agencies, which bore some of the costs for novel horizontal drilling techniques and hand-delivered crucial three-dimensional mapping technologies developed at Sandia National Laboratories. Even with this partnership, Mitchell Energy endured years of experimentation and dozens of failed test wells before producing shale gas for a profit.
Where George Mitchell proved invaluable was engaging the work of government researchers and piecing together different federally-developed technologies to develop a commercial product. Mitchell himself spent much of the 1980s lobbying for sustained federal fossil energy research at the Department of Energy, defending "Crawley's folly" in front of a hostile Congress. And according to Dan Steward, former Vice President at Mitchell Energy, the real breakthroughs in shale fracking proved elusive before Mitchell invited in partners from the Department of Energy and the Gas Research Institute. As Steward told us, "By the early 1990s, we had a good position, acceptable but lacking knowledge base, and then Mitchell said 'Okay, I'm open to bringing in DOE and GRI' in 1991."
While Mitchell was himself unique, his story is not. From Thomas Edison to Steve Jobs, the history of technology innovation is littered with visionary entrepreneurs whose individual initiative is celebrated while critical public technology development and commercialization investments are ignored. For every George Mitchell, there are dozens of policymakers and civil servants who - like Alex Crawley, who devoted his career to energy innovation - receive much less fanfare. Disregarding the role of the public sector in the U.S. shale revolution erases Mitchell's crucial strengths as a collaborator, scholar, and champion of public innovation efforts.

        
Daniel Yergin on George Mitchell's Shale Energy Innovations and Concerns
        
More on Gas Drilling, Peer Review and Public Health
        
In Gas-Drilling Fight, Opposites Attract, and Distract
        
A Look at the Role of Policy in America's Shale Oil and Gas Era
        
Is 'Wild West' Era for Gas Drilling Coming to an End?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CHARITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%) Breakthrough Institute; Drilling and Boring; Energy and Power; energy department; Hydraulic Fracturing; Inventions and Patents; Mitchell, George P; Natural Gas; Nordhaus, Ted; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shale; Shellenberger, Michael; Texas; Yergin, Daniel; Energy Department; business; energy; gas; Geology; innovation; science; technology

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Breakthrough Institute; Energy Department

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (92%) Mitchell, George P; Nordhaus, Ted; Shellenberger, Michael; Yergin, Daniel

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



936 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rejects Fed's Cap on Debit Card Fees

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The billions of dollars that banks earn when consumers swipe their debit cards are under threat after a federal court ruling. 

 BODY:
The billions of dollars that banks earn when consumers swipe their debit cards are under threat after a federal court ruling on Wednesday. The question is whether consumers will see any savings.
As part of its efforts to overhaul banks after the financial crisis, Congress targeted the fees that banks and other firms earn from retailers when consumers use debit cards. Lawmakers intended to limit the fees, and left it up to the Federal Reserve, a primary bank regulator, to work out the specifics of the cap.
 But on Wednesday, Richard J. Leon, a district court judge in Washington, ruled that the Fed had failed to follow Congress's wishes in setting the cap. In doing so, the Fed had, in effect, been too kind to the banks. If the ruling stands, the Fed may have to place a lower limit on the so-called interchange fees, which could further reduce the revenue that financial firms reap from debit cards. 
Judge Leon's opinion was strongly worded. He said that, in working out the details of the fee cap, the Fed had run "completely afoul of the text, design and purpose" of what Congress had intended.
"We are reviewing the judge's opinion," Barbara Hagenbaugh, a Fed spokeswoman, said.
Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who was behind the legislation that capped the fees, welcomed the ruling. "Today's decision by the Federal District Court is a victory for consumers and small business around the country and will lead to lower interchange rates for billions of debit card transactions each year," Mr. Durbin said.
Courts have struck down other aspects of the financial overhaul, but in ways that favor banks. The fight over debit card fees pits the powerful industries of retailing and banking against each other.
"It is a very significant decision," Stacie E. McGinn, a partner at Simpson Thacher, said. "It's a decision that clearly favors the merchants.
The court's ruling was made in response to a lawsuit brought against the Fed by an array of retailers. The court on Wednesday delayed putting the order into effect. It has scheduled a hearing for Aug. 14 to decide on how to proceed.
The fee cap that the Fed introduced in 2011 did lead to much lower debit card revenue for banks. Bank of America, for example, saw its debit card revenue fall by $1.7 billion last year as a result of the cap. The banks now face the prospect of a deeper reduction. But critics of the banks have said they have made up for at least some of the lost revenues by charging other types of fees.
"It reduced debit interchange revenue by about 50 percent," Jason Goldberg, a bank analyst at Barclays, said. "It now perhaps gets reduced a bit further."
The banks and retailers are sparring over whether lower debit fees for retailers benefit consumers. The banks say the retailers have pushed for the lower fees not to benefit customers, but to pad their own bottom lines.
"It was - and still is - all about trying to help retailers increase profit margins while providing no real benefit to consumers," said Frank Keating, president of the American Bankers Association.
Retailers have said consumers would gain. "Merchants are ready to pass lower swipe fees along to consumers in the form of discounts and other benefits as soon as reform goes into effect," Mallory Duncan, the general counsel of the National Retail Federation, said in 2011 before the Fed's cap was introduced. The federation is an industry group and one of the entities that brought the suit against the Fed.
On Wednesday, Mr. Duncan said customers had already seen benefits. "You see gas stations offering savings for cash and for debit," he said. "Nobody's margins are going up right now."
 Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting. 

        
Debit Card Rules Save Banks $3.5 Billion, Moody's Says
        
Despite Fears, Bond Market Is Functioning Fine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBIT CARDS (94%); JUDGES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Debit Cards; Federal Reserve System; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



937 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: On Anniversary of '63 March, Congress Finds Notes of Present Struggles

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Representative John Lewis, the last surviving speaker from the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, said the inequality that the civil rights movement sought to end remains a problem, although progress has been made. 

 BODY:
Nearly 50 years after John Lewis stood among the "Big Six" civil rights leaders before throngs of mostly African-American demonstrators, gathered on the National Mall for the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, he stood in the Capitol on Wednesday and declared the work of the movement unfinished.
At 23, Mr. Lewis was the newly elected president of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the youngest speaker at the historic march, which took place on Aug. 28, 1963. Now, at 73, he is a Democratic congressman from Georgia and the last surviving speaker from the march. 
"We have come a distance since that day," Mr. Lewis said on Wednesday. "But many of the issues that gave rise to that march are still pressing needs in our society today: violence, poverty, hunger, long-term unemployment, homelessness, voting rights and the need to protect human dignity."
Congress is scheduled to be in recess on the anniversary of the march, which comes as President Obama is traveling the country to promote his economic agenda focused on job creation.
The crowd on the National Mall in 1963 swelled to about 250,000 people, who gathered in front of the Lincoln Memorial to draw attention to economic inequality. It is most remembered as the occasion of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech.
John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican House speaker, tied the march to centuries-old efforts to bring about racial equality, highlighting Frederick Douglass's escape from slavery and advocacy for abolition, Abraham Lincoln's signing of the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863, and Rosa Parks's refusal to give up her bus seat to a white passenger in Alabama in 1955.
"This is the story of how a president, a slave, a seamstress and a minister locked arms across time to deliver us from oppression, a story that shakes us forward and shakes us free, a story with room enough for each of us to press on for some cause, some dream, bigger than ourselves," Mr. Boehner said.
Remembering Dr. King's call to act with "the fierce urgency of now," Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic minority leader, noted that the march had propelled the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as well as broader social and economic progress. Over the next 50 years, African-Americans increased their presence in the House to 43 members from 5 and established the influential Congressional Black Caucus.
"We have kept moving forward," Ms. Pelosi said. "Each step is a sign of progress, and we have a moral obligation to press on."
But Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, warned that the progress made during and since the civil rights movement was "under siege."
"Since the Supreme Court's decision to strike down portions of the Voting Rights Act, states once again are free to erect barriers to discourage American citizens from exercising one of the most fundamental rights, the right to vote, without intimidation or obstruction," he said, singling out efforts by Texas and other Southern states to tighten voting laws after the Supreme Court freed them in June from the requirement to obtain preclearance from the Justice Department.
Mr. Reid said he had directed Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to examine "these dangerous voter suppression efforts" - which he said unfairly targeted the poor, the elderly and minorities - and propose steps the Senate can take to protect voters.
"Those who value the progress started 50 years ago by the March on Washington should take this assault on freedom as seriously as you've taken anything," he said.
Civil rights groups plan to observe the 50th anniversary with a march on Aug. 24 from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial to the Lincoln Memorial, and another on Aug. 28 that will stop at the Justice and Labor Department buildings.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, July 28
        
New Polls Are Bad News for Obama, and Worse for Congress
        
Report Says Congress Is More Diverse and More Divided
        
Q. and A.: Is Congress Broken?
        
The Early Word: Reinforcements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ANNIVERSARIES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SLAVERY (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%) Civil Rights and Liberties; Discrimination; House of Representatives; Lewis, John R; Senate; United States Politics and Government; Washington (DC); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (56%); HARRY REID (56%) Lewis, John R

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

 
