

201 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Fight Over a Road's Final Miles

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: ALHAMBRA, Calif., Oct. 8

 BODY:
It comes barreling up from the harbor at Long Beach, six lanes across and filled with cars, then stops short at a big berm of earth that looks like an abandoned jump for Evel Knievel.
For 34 years, the 710 freeway has gone just so far and no farther, and traffic has poured off it onto the streets of this San Gabriel Valley suburb in a singular brand of Southern California frustration: a daily bottleneck of rush-hour smog, congestion and stalemate. 
 For much of that time, plans to extend the road's northern end to tie in with the area's freeway web have been blocked by South Pasadena, the city to the north, whose residents fear that the freeway's final 4.5 miles would despoil historic neighborhoods of Craftsman-style houses, increase traffic and ruin life in one of the oldest and most picturesque enclaves in greater Los Angeles.
Last year the Federal Government gave final approval to build the $1.4 billion link. But this summer, opponents won an injunction in Federal District Court against further construction or land acquisition, pending a review.
So Alhambra, which wants the road to ease gridlock and foster growth, declared guerrilla war, at first blocking some intersections entirely, then drastically re-timing lights to slow traffic.
At one level, the fight over this freeway is a timeless, parochial conflict. But in a broader sense, the battle of Interstate 710 is an example of the biggest question bedeviling a region that is again expanding explosively after a deep recession: how to accommodate growth in Southern California without destroying the very quality of life that drew masses of Americans here.
When the road was planned, the consensus was more freeways. But this stalemate has lasted so long that the ground has shifted beneath it, and a political establishment that once supported it is now highly skeptical, if not outright opposed. And whether the new road winds up being built or not, the controversy may be the last of its kind here, because there is simply no more room.
"The real question is, is L.A. going to grow up and face the future," said Alan Maltun, a public relations consultant in South Pasadena and a longtime freeway opponent. "History's shown that we've continued to delude ourselves up to now and everybody's chasing a life style that was evolved in the 40's and 50's that the transportation infrastructure can no longer support, given the population.
"The real question is whether public leadership is going to finally draw the line and say, 'Look, as much as we have screwed up mass transportation here, we can't abandon that goal.' There's just no way you can build enough freeways," Mr. Maltun said.
The California Department of Transportation, known as Caltrans, says the freeway extension would take 100,000 vehicles a day from city streets, prevent 610 accidents and 7 deaths a year, reduce air pollution, conserve fuel and create jobs, as a final north-south link between two major east-west roads, the San Bernardino Freeway, Interstate 10 and the Foothill Freeway, Interstate 210. Opponents sharply dispute many of those assertions.
Both sides agree that the road would be filled to capacity at rush hour the minute it opens, and would probably let commuters travel no more than 1.5 miles per hour faster at rush hour.
At a time that some cities, from San Francisco to Boston, have decided to tear down or bury old freeways, not build new ones, transportation experts here say that just because the 710 has been on the drawing board for decades, supported by politically influential construction unions and bureaucratic inertia, that is no reason to build it if it is no longer practical.
"Once upon a time, the trend was to sacrifice communities in the name of circulation," said Gloria Ohland, Southern California project manager for the Surface Transportation Policy Project, a national coalition of organizations dedicated to transportation policies that protect the environment and promote livable communities. It favors experimenting with alternatives such as wide streets, long light cycles, bus and bike lanes.
"We have sacrificed so much of this city to highways and moving cars, and there aren't that many great neighborhoods left, and the ones that are should be preserved," Ms. Ohland said.
Officials in Alhambra do not dispute that goal. They just talk about how the lack of a freeway hurts their own town.
They complain that the intersection of Valley Boulevard, the east-west street that leads off the existing freeway terminus, and Freemont Avenue, the north-south street that leads up to Pasadena, is one of the 10 busiest intersections in Los Angeles County, and say they are merely trying to "modify, calm, regulate traffic to what it would be if the freeway were built," as the city's transportation analyst, Mike Holmes, put it.
"Basically, Freemont Avenue is the default 710 freeway," said Mr. Holmes, whose engineers reduced the rush-hour green-light cycle on eastbound Valley Boulevard at Freemont to 27 seconds, from 90, in July in an effort to slow the flow. "We get all these accidental tourists that are forced to come through Alhambra because the freeway's not done. They don't want to come through. They have to. South Pasadena talks about cutting their city in half, cutting down trees. They never talk about the daily impacts on Alhambra."
But after initial howls of protest and half-hour backups this summer, many commuters have apparently found alternative routes, Mr. Holmes said, and conditions are better. Freeway opponents say that proves their point that the new route is not badly needed.
Over the long years, transportation planners have made numerous concessions to freeway opponents, agreeing to move or rebuild some historic houses, ban trucks from the new section of road and abandon plans for an interchange with the existing 110 Pasadena Freeway, the region's oldest and a national prototype, opened in 1940. Such an interchange would have forced demolition of even more houses than the nearly 1,000 that would still be taken.
But planners consistently rejected an earlier South Pasadena proposal to route the road along the city's western border with Los Angeles proper, and so it would still slice South Pasadena, a city of 3.5 square miles and 24,000 people, almost precisely in half.
"It's a heck of a lot of money to be spent on something that's not needed," said Joanne Nuckols, an interior designer who has lived for 30 years about two blocks from the proposed route. She has long been among the group of local homeowners, many of them women, who have organized to fight the road, which at a cost of some $311 million a mile would be among the most expensive highways ever built.
"Things have actually been going quite well for us in court lately," Ms. Nuckols said, "and my friend said: 'Oh my God, what will we do if we win? We won't have an excuse not to clean house anymore.' "
In granting the injunction against further construction this summer, Judge Dean D. Pregerson of Federal District Court, the son of the Federal judge who presided over the last big freeway fight in Los Angeles, ruled that state and Federal officials had failed to adequately consider less-disruptive surface street alternatives, like improving traffic flow on adjoining streets, and that the plaintiffs had "shown a probability of success on the merits" of that claim.
The next status conference in the case is scheduled for February, and any trial would be a year or two off. Opponents hope that will give them time to build support for other longstanding transportation projects, like a long-proposed light rail line from downtown Los Angeles to Pasadena that has been beleaguered by delays and disputes over financing.
A spokesman for Caltrans, Margie Tiritilli, noting that the freeway project was still in court, said only that the agency "continues to meet" with the affected cities and state and local officials. Part of the road would run through Pasadena itself, and part through a gritty East Los Angeles neighborhood called El Sereno, whose mostly poor and minority residents have also objected to the project in a separate lawsuit.
But now most of those local officials -- a new generation not involved in the original planning -- are cool to the project, or oppose it outright, including the State Assembly Speaker, Antonio R. Villaraigosa, and the area's Republican Congressman, Representative James E. Rogan, and his Democratic challenger, State Senator Adam B. Schiff.
"Ultimately, it's got to be a political decision, and I think that bodes well for a consensus resolution that is going to improve traffic in the corridor without a freeway," said Antonio Rossmann, the lawyer for South Pasadena. "The fact is, the politicians are out there ahead of the engineers and bureaucrats. You can't build your way out of congestion. If you build it, they will come."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The stalemate over Interstate 710 has lasted so long that the political establishment that once supported it is now skeptical, if not opposed. In the meantime, the last exit at Valley Boulevard has remained a bottleneck. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Alhambra, Calif.: Plans to extend Interstate 710 into South Pasadena remain blocked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SOUTH PASADENA (CALIF); ALHAMBRA (CALIF); PASADENA (CALIF); UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); SMOG (72%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); INJUNCTIONS (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S GLORIA OHLAND (56%); ALAN MALTUN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1999



202 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Talks Continue on Ford Motor Contract

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Saturday, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Negotiators for the United Automobile Workers union and the Ford Motor Company continued their talks over a new labor contract past a midnight Friday deadline.
Earlier this week, the union told Ford that it would end the current contract at 11:59 P.M. on Friday and would call a strike if no agreement had been reached by then on a contract covering 101,000 unionized workers. 
 The company and the union are struggling to reconcile Ford's plans to spin off its giant auto parts unit, Visteon Automotive Systems, to shareholders. After all, nearly a quarter of Ford's unionized workers toil in Visteon factories, and they fear their jobs and pensions will be less secure in the long run if Visteon becomes an independent company.
The continuation of the talks suggested that both sides were eager to reach an agreement without a strike. Local union officials at Ford's factories waited to hear from the union whether to strike. Wall Street analysts said that any long shutdown would quickly result in big losses, particularly because Ford is already having trouble meeting demand for its high-profit pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles.
"They can't build them fast enough," said Scott F. Merlis, a managing director and head of the automotive practice at Wasserstein Perella Securities Inc.
Both DaimlerChrysler A.G. and the General Motors Corporation have already reached agreements with the union on new, four-year labor contracts that call for annual raises of 3 percent on top of increases that nearly compensate for inflation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); DAI (FRA) (67%); DAI (BIT) (67%); VC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS FORD MOTOR CO (96%); WASSERSTEIN PERELLA & CO (67%); DAIMLER AG (67%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); VISTEON CORP (57%); VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PICKUP TRUCKS (66%); 

PERSON: DAVID FORD (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1999



203 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 12;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Memphis Mayor Is Re-elected by a Surprisingly Wide Margin

BYLINE: By EMILY YELLIN

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Oct. 8

 BODY:
After one of the most raucous and highly contested election campaigns in this city's history, voters have given Mayor Willie Herenton a third term by a surprisingly decisive margin.
Mr. Herenton, who became the first black mayor of Memphis with a narrow victory in 1991 and was re-elected handily with no serious competition in 1995, triumphed again on Thursday with 45.7 percent of the vote, against a field of 14 challengers. 
 For the first time in a Memphis mayoral election, the top two contenders were black, with the City Council chairman, Joe Ford, Mr. Herenton's closest competitor, drawing 25.1 percent of the vote.
Analysis of returns from precincts throughout the city suggested that Mr. Herenton's support cut across racial lines in this city of 650,000 people, 55 percent of whom are black.
"I think this election means in part that the evolution in race relations in Memphis continues to improve," said Marcus Pohlmann, a political science professor at Rhodes College here. "I don't know whether we're ready to bury race as a factor in this city. I suspect not. But this election showed that you continue to have a significant number of whites who appear to be comfortable voting for an African-American. And that is a change."
In his victory speech, Mr. Herenton said: "We must have a spirit of unity that crosses race, politics and economics. That is what is going to move Memphis on to the next level."
The margin of Mr. Herenton's victory in this election -- a nonpartisan process, although the winner and the runner-up were both Democrats -- surprised many here. Mr. Ford was considered the Mayor's most formidable opponent throughout the race, not so much because of his own political record after five years on the City Council as because of his family name. One of Mr. Ford's brothers, Harold E. Ford Sr., was Tennessee's first black Congressman and served 11 terms in the House before his son, Harold Jr., replaced him three years ago. Another brother of Joe Ford serves on the County Commission, and yet another is a Tennessee state senator.
Throughout the mayoral race, Mr. Herenton called the Fords a political machine that was "not healthy for the body politic." But Joe Ford's resounding defeat has some questioning the family's hold on power.
Professor Pohlmann said the Ford family "might have given the illusion that they have more clout than they actually do."
"I think many people might have overestimated the Ford family's control in the black community," he said.
On the other hand, Steven C. Etheridge, a nonpartisan political pollster, said he did not think that the outcome of the election signaled that the Fords' power had much diminished.
"That would be overstating it," Mr. Etheridge said. "It is very circumstantial. I think the black community did not want to run the risk of eliminating a strong black mayor by voting for Joe Ford and so letting a white candidate win."
Nonetheless, Thursday's result has brought speculation about the viability of Harold Ford Jr.'s ambition to run next year against Bill Frist, one of the state's two Republican Senators. Representative Ford, who has already made a preliminary tour of the state, was involved in one of the most nasty flare-ups of his uncle's mayoral campaign, in which he and other Ford supporters accused a Herenton campaign worker of pulling a gun on them when they were putting up yard signs. Representative Ford also recorded radio commercials attacking Mr. Herenton.
"It's hard to understand," Mr. Pohlmann said, "why a sitting Congressman would risk alienating Democratic Herenton supporters by getting himself involved in what was essentially a Democratic primary."
In one bright spot for the Fords, yet another member of the family, Edmund Ford, easily won the City Council seat that his brother Joe vacated to run for mayor. That seat has been held by a Ford family member since 1971.
Jerry Lawler, professional wrestler turned politician, finished a distant third in the mayoral race, with 11.7 percent of the vote. Mr. Lawler had hoped for a Jesse Ventura-style jump from the wrestling ring to the political arena, but his candidacy faltered, especially after he was indicted on charges of attacking a police officer this spring in a dispute over parking at the airport.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the results of the Memphis mayoral election misspelled the surname of a political pollster who commented on the results. He is Steven C. Ethridge, not Etheridge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elected to a third term as Mayor of Memphis, Willie Herenton saluted his supporters at a victory celebration on Thursday night. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: JOE T FORD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1999



204 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Oh, Grow Up

BYLINE: By Leon Botstein; Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College, is the author of "Jefferson's Children: Education and the Promise of American Culture" and the editor of "The Compleat Brahms: A Guide to the Musical Works of Johannes Brahms."

 BODY:

THE RISE AND FALL OF
 THE AMERICAN TEENAGER
 By Thomas Hine.
 322 pp. New York:
 Bard/Avon Books. $24. 
 During the next decade, the United States will experience a steady rise in the number of young people between the ages of 12 and 18. As Thomas Hine points out, the percentage of those under 18 in our midst already approximates the percentage of the baby boom era. Manufacturers of bluejeans, cosmetics and movies already know this, but is the rest of the nation prepared? Are we facing a replay of the 1960's?
Not necessarily, according to "The Rise and Fall of the American Teenager." Its principal thesis is that most of what we have come to expect from adolescence and teen-agers -- youth subcultures, identity crises, violence, rebellion and high-risk personal behavior -- may not be inevitable and might actually be avoidable if we treated teen-agers not as a special subgroup but as "beginner" adults. This would mean breaking up the artificially age-segregated environments of high school and giving teen-agers real responsibilities and real jobs. Hine points to the adoption of the large comprehensive high school on James Bryant Conant's 1959 model as a main culprit in a society that treats teen-agers impersonally and confronts them with restrictions based on fear rather than fact. In sum, because of our extreme discomfort with those caught in what we assume is inevitably a special transition time between childhood and adulthood, Hine says, we have condemned adolescents to a lengthy and unwarranted, ever-expanding pe-riod of youthful irrelevance, offering them an unheard-of and unjustified moratorium from the real business of life.
Perhaps, as Hine suggests, our mistreatment and misunderstanding of teen-agers are a result of our own envy of youth, our hypocritical obsession with sexuality and our failure to really grow up ourselves (as well as our failure to spend enough time with our children). According to Hine, we are still operating, intellectually and emotionally, in the spirit of G. S. Hall, America's leading psychologist after William James, and his 1904 study, "Adolescence: Its Psychology and Its Relations to Physiology, Anthropology, Sociology, Sex, Crime, Religion and Education." If Hall's description of adolescents as reckless and dangerous makes him the villain of Hine's story, Daniel Offer, the author of "The Psychological World of the Teenager: A Study of Normal Adolescent Boys" (1969), is the hero. Hine uses Offer's research to buttress his view that adolescents are just adults starting out, no more or less beset by difficult physiological and psychological challenges than anyone else. Hine is understandably ambivalent about Erik Erikson. He accepts Erikson's construct of adolescence as the age devoted to a search for identity, provided one agrees that identity is about individuality and is not a mere label or sign of group membership. But Erikson's work, now largely forgotten, has helped justify much of today's tolerance of adolescent experimentation.
According to Hine, the author of "Populuxe," "Facing Tomorrow" and "The Total Package," the monstrous post-1940's cultural reality of an isolated and destructive adolescent peer group life stands in stark contrast to the role played by adolescents in other cultures. Hine gives us thumbnail sketches of Puritan family government, indentured servitude, apprenticeships (a system to which he is consistently attracted), the Great Awakening, the Lowell factories for women, flappers and the Civilian Conservation Corps. Adults in past eras let adolescents be independent and gave them a real role in the economy, he says, perhaps a trifle reductively, teaching them not by "abstract principles" and memorization in the classroom but by trial and error at work to solve actual problems.
Hine is savvy enough to realize that the old ways of learning by doing -- the guild and artisan traditions -- won't work in the fast-changing present of science and technology. Nonetheless, he makes sense when he advocates a more differentiated approach than universal schooling to the years during which people mature physically and socially. We need to abandon the high school and replace it with more serious and varied opportunities for education and training. As Hine convincingly shows, high school is destructive to both intellectual and social maturation. Only in varsity sports -- which are comparable to the problem-solving and result-driven character of vocational apprenticeships -- do a very few young people get the kind of attention they need. At the same time, we excuse and tolerate teen-agers' often silly and bizarre behavior with the worst sort of jargon about psychosocial development. And we hypocritically decry, but secretly envy and profit from, the advertising and media fixation on the teen-age look and body type. Hine is right too in saying that we need to rethink the laws (curfews and prohibitions) and institutions (juvenile courts) that deal with teen-agers.
"The Rise and Fall of the American Teenager" is important because it challenges conventional wisdom and asks us to reconsider a host of pseudoscientific claims we take as axiomatic. Its limitations do not stem from Hine's views. Some readers may not like his studied effort to be easy to read. The book has its share of asides designed to startle, from assertions about second-generation Jews who helped create pop music to horror movies ("Rosemary's Baby," "The Exorcist," "The Omen") and an antichild backlash after the mid-1960's to the consequences of two working parents and America's lack of a "common myth" or "common ground." Hine's survey of American history vis--vis adolescents and his sociological insight are not as well articulated as his polemical ambitions require. Periodically he provides careful documentation, but frequently facts are put forward (like the disappearance of the shower after gym class among boys or the comparative size of teen-age spending and the military budget) that beg for backup evidence.
But these are quibbles about a book whose importance rests not in its prose or scholarship but in the courage and simplicity of its two leading and radical ideas. First, teen-agers in the next century must be treated and educated as the young adults they are and encouraged to participate fully in our social, economic and political life. Second, if this happens, we might find ourselves free of the vulgar antics and the exploitative style of youth we have lived with these past many decades. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RISE AND FALL OF THE AMERICAN TEENAGER, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); COSMETICS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: BOTSTEIN, LEON; HINE, THOMAS SIR GEORGE YOUNG (58%); JAMES BRYANT CONANT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



205 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: The Hollow Man

BYLINE: By Steven R. Weisman; Steven R. Weisman writes editorials for The Times. He was the paper's chief White House correspondent from 1980 to 1984.

 BODY:

DUTCH
 A Memoir of Ronald Reagan.
 By Edmund Morris.
 Illustrated. 874 pp. New York:
 Random House. $35. 
 The first time the author of this "memoir" of Ronald Reagan says he encountered his elusive subject was in 1926, at a high school football game in Dixon, Ill., where Reagan strode "with extraordinary grace" down the field with his teammates. "His face irked me," Edmund Morris writes. "It had an adolescent coarseness and an air of studied jollity, as if he knew he was being watched."
"Who's this fellow?" Morris asks.
"His name's Dutch Reagan," a boy replies, using the future President's lifelong nickname.
A year and a half later Morris runs into Reagan again, swimming at nearby Lowell Park. This time, he experiences a Cheever-like epiphany. "Watching him -- indeed, trying to imitate him -- helped me understand at least partly the massive privacy of his personality," he writes. "The swimmer enjoys a loneliness greater, yet oddly more comforting, than that of the long-distance runner." Reagan's determined isolation from colleagues, friends and family, the book goes on to suggest, helped save the world from Communism and Americans from economic misery, just as it helped him save 77 lives in his summers as a lifeguard on the Rock River.
As most people surely know by now, these scenes did not actually happen. Morris's book is not memoir but, in part at least, a reverie. The author, the Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer of Teddy Roosevelt, was enlisted 14 years ago to write a definitive life based on extraordinary access to the President. In the end, the access was of little use, since Reagan devoted most of their conversations to tired anecdotes, tall tales and evasions. Even less informative was the President's private diary. Whether out of inspiration, writer's block or despair, Morris has produced a book unique in the annals of serious biography, a partly fictionalized account narrated by an imaginary contemporary of the former President. "This is an authorized biography and a work of extensive scholarship," says a publisher's note in the front of the book. "All the words (written or spoken) of Ronald Reagan, all his recounted thoughts and acts, and indeed those of every historical character in the text, are matters of fact and of record." Yet the Edmund Morris who wrote the book was born in 1940 in Kenya and grew up in South Africa. His doppelganger narrator wanders in and out of Reagan's life from the beginnings in rural Illinois to Hollywood, Sacramento and Washington, introducing several other fictional characters, who comment sardonically on Dutch and are cited in bogus footnotes.
Most journalists, historians and nonfiction writers will find this unacceptable. The fictional characters are not clearly identified as such; often they are unnecessary and distracting, particularly an obnoxious made-up son of the author who becomes a radical in the 1960's. Yet a reader who surrenders to Morris's self-indulgent blend of scholarship and imagination will be led through a riveting story to a transcendent conclusion with a surprise twist. If there is a "higher truth" justifying the book's technique, it is that Ronald Reagan lived in a world of his own fictions, far more extensive than the fictions of Edmund Morris. Who better suited to plumb a phantom subject than a phantom narrator?
Morris is hardly the first writer to notice that Reagan came of age in a dream factory. But there has never been as complete a portrait of Reagan's vanity, passivity, ambition and fantasizing tendencies from such an admiring source. The description here of Dutch arriving at the walled and gated city of the Warner Brothers back lot powerfully conveys a sense of a young man meeting his destiny. He had, after all, been dramatizing, embellishing and perhaps fictionalizing his life for years. An often-told Reagan anecdote recalls his shock at finding his father lying on the doorstep in a drunken stupor. Morris's research has taken him to an obscure novel loved by Reagan, in which just such a scene also takes place.
The other theme of this book is Reagan's isolation. The lowest point in his life comes during his divorce from Jane Wyman, which Morris reconstructs in fascinating detail. This is a Reagan despondent from the death of a premature baby daughter in 1947 and eclipsed by a wife whose career was taking off while his was sinking. Wyman let her boredom with him and his increasingly conservative politics be known all around Hollywood, but Morris delicately hints at a sexual aspect of her complaint -- one that contradicts the Reagan who once bragged to an aide that he got tired of waking up in a strange bed and not remembering the name of the woman he had spent the night with. (It was a common problem: Reagan once forgot the name of his own son.) And his sense of humiliation was not helped by his starring as Drake McHugh, the amputee in "King's Row." In the book that inspired the movie, Morris notes, the operation was from the hip down. Reagan's most famous movie line, "Where's the rest of me?," was echoed later in his autobiographical confession that he felt like "only half a man" until he got out of the movies and into politics.
The first 300 pages of "Dutch" engage the most obscure part of Reagan's life -- his childhood and youth, his career as a sports announcer, actor and president of the Screen Actors Guild. He journeys from ardent New Dealer and self-confessed "hemophiliac" liberal -- Morris even gives some credence to the possibility that Reagan toyed with joining the Communist Party -- to apostle of right-wing causes, honing his speaking skills as a television host.
Oddly, it is the middle of the book, when Reagan's life begins to be well documented, that is the weakest. Morris's account of Reagan's life as Governor of California, his Presidential candidacy and his first term is cursory and derivative. "Dutch" doesn't take off again until the final three and a half years of the Reagan Presidency, when the author -- the real author -- joins up as official biographer, invited in by Nancy Reagan and Michael Deaver, and it is during this second term that Reagan's isolation and his habitual denials of reality come into greater focus, with historic consequences.
"Dutch" opens with Reagan's awkward visit to Bergen-Belsen in 1985, scheduled to placate Jewish groups incensed over his tour of the Nazi military cemetery at Bitburg. Reagan was wounded by their outrage. Hadn't he personally witnessed the liberation of the camps at Ohrdruf and Buchenwald? Well, no, actually. All he saw was footage brought to the Army training film unit where he served. Incredibly, Morris dismisses the distinction. "What matters, surely, is that one of history's worst truths, registered upon Ronald Reagan half a century ago, with a primacy that affected him the rest of his life," he writes. And in a footnote, he goes on to say that "to the extent that what he saw was 'real' in his mind (where RR, a highly imaginative person, in effect lived), he 'really' was there when the wire went down at Ohrdruf."
The notion that it makes no difference whether Reagan experienced something in person or from film is even more outrageous than any of the fictionalized characters in this book. But the difference clearly did not matter to Reagan. His world was famously populated with welfare "queens" who did not exist, with trees that caused pollution. If Bill Clinton's reputation is for telling lies, Reagan's was just for saying things that were not true. That he was able to sell this fine distinction to the public surely qualifies him as a political genius. Morris agrees: Reagan wasn't lying, because he believed what he said, even after being told that it was false.
Reagan's eccentric standard of belief enabled him to deny that he had traded arms for hostages in Iran, for example, even after being told that he had, and led to the greatest crisis of his Presidency. But perhaps his most significant fantasy involved his beloved Strategic Defense Initiative, and his stubborn rebuff of Mikhail Gorbachev's demand that the United States halt development and testing of the "Star Wars" missile shield. Morris thinks it's possible that Reagan was reminded of his movie role as Brass Bancroft, wielding an "inertia projector" against enemy aircraft in "Murder in the Air." Or maybe he got the idea from the science fiction of Edgar Rice Burroughs. Whatever the reason, Dutch refused to see his shield as anything but defensive. The Russians saw it as a new and threatening offensive weapon. How could they not? Even Margaret Thatcher found Reagan's view of the "Star Wars" concept shockingly simple-minded.
But as it turned out, of course, the "Star Wars" shield proposal terrified Kremlin leaders with the prospect of bankruptcy if they had to match it. For all Reagan's misconceptions "Star Wars," along with Reagan's denunciation of the "evil empire," probably speeded the Soviet Union's collapse.
Morris is on shakier ground when he notes that the balanced budget Reagan believed he could achieve, despite enormous military spending increases and tax cuts, actually became a reality by the end of Clinton's second term. But fiscal balance has been achieved in part by a rolling series of tax increases that began during Reagan's Presidency and continued on through the Administrations of Bush and Clinton, both of whom paid a political price for it.
In the end, "Dutch" is not political history but a character study of a world-bending personality possessed of firm beliefs and a hollow core. Some of the personal details are known, but they are shocking when laid out in Morris's narrative: the grandson whom Reagan never found time to meet; the fact that three of his children have written of moments when he seemed not to know who they were; Nancy Reagan's rueful admission that there have been times when she too felt frozen out. (She briefly stopped speaking to him during the Iran-contra scandal and was devastated when Reagan failed to console her when she learned she had breast cancer.) At the end of the book, Morris visits Dutch in late 1994 and the image of the isolated lifeguard returns unbidden. Reagan, closed off more than ever by Alzheimer's disease, rambles incoherently, but then poignantly he shows his visitor a watercolor of a riverbank. "This," Dutch says, snapping into focus, "is where I was a lifeguard for seven sic summers. I saved 77 lives. And you know, none of 'em ever thanked me!" The truth, as Morris reminds us repeatedly, was just the opposite. Reagan never thanked anybody for anything.
Morris's book unfolds in the style of a cinematic montage, with the author searching for the secret of Reagan's character like the unseen narrator of "Citizen Kane." Reagan's star quality was so great that it is easy to forget that in his first two years, the nation was mired in the worst recession since the Great Depression, and public confidence plummeted again as the Iran-contra scandal unfolded in 1986. Yet history will probably remember Reagan as a giant who reflected the Zeitgeist of his era and hastened its destiny.
At the beginning of "Dutch," Morris compares Reagan to the planet Jupiter, "a large, diffuse amorphous object with a huge gravitational force." At the end he tries a different celestial metaphor. Reagan is like the moon, shining with a bright intelligence until disease and dementia set in and the dark mysterious side that no one has ever seen has taken over completely. For certain, future biographies -- and less "creative" ones -- will be needed to fill in the crater-sized holes of this American life. But "Dutch" never fails to evoke the power and mystery of its subject. "Where's the rest of me?" indeed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Reagan at Lowell Park beach, about 1932. (Culver Pictures/from "Dutch")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT'S PRIVATE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ATHLETES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); HISTORY (75%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (72%); JOURNALISM (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); RUNNING (57%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



206 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5022 words

HEADLINE: The Importance of Matthew Barney

BYLINE: By Michael Kimmelman; Michael Kimmelman is chief art critic of The Times.

 BODY:
It's a sweltering Monday at the Bedford-Stuyvesant armory, a huge vaulted shed, almost the size of a football field, decorated with flags and multicolored bunting. Two men in red wool Canadian Mountie uniforms climb onto a stage in the middle of the room. A woman, 50-ish, bizarrely wasp-waisted (she models for fetish magazines) and dressed in a Victorian costume, with veil and muff, lingers in a corner.
Moving between them, instructing first the woman to wait, then the Mounties where to stand, is the artist Matthew Barney, in camouflage shorts, T-shirt and black boots. When he came onto the scene in 1991, with his surreal sculptures and videos, he was instantly successful, a phenomenon. Since then, his work has only got better and stranger: he has mostly been making an ambitious series of increasingly elaborate films, called "Cremaster." At the moment, on this hot August morning in 1998, he is directing a scene for "Cremaster 2," which is actually the fourth and next to last in the series. (It opens in New York at the Film Forum this week.) 
 He and his crew, a dozen people, including his mother, spent the weekend turning the place into what, up to a point, is supposed to resemble a hall at the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893. Paul Pisoni, a quiet, gentle man who helps to make some of Barney's sculptures (you might say that the sculptures function roughly as characters in the films), tells me he once found himself in a crane, 80 feet high, during a storm, hanging the logo for "Cremaster 1" on the scoreboard of a football stadium in Boise, Idaho. "He's sneaky," Pisoni says. "You don't know what you're getting into until you're doing it." During an earlier "Cremaster" film, T.J. Davey, who does rigging and construction for Barney, discovered that part of his job involved climbing the proscenium of the opera house in Budapest as a stand-in for Barney. Davey was in Budapest to help Barney bungee-jump naked off the city's Chain Bridge.
Barney's enterprise is vaguely akin to one of those movies in which Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland's little gang pitches in to produce a play, except that in Barney's case the results are, to put it mildly, different. Chelsea Romersa, Barney's assistant, says dryly, "The perversity makes it less boring than most jobs."
Now 32, Barney is the most important American artist of his generation. He produces films and videos, most of which he performs in. He and his crew also make sculptures and objects for the films and turn out photographs, books and installations derived from the films. The sculptures include dumbbells made out of tapioca, a weight bench made of petroleum jelly, a mirrored saddle and nylon chairs with backrests curved at the waist so that only contortionists could sit comfortably on them. Barney doesn't regard any of his works -- the sculptures, the photographs, the books, the films -- as subsidiary to any others. To him, they're all expressions in different forms of the same ideas.
Those ideas are nearly impossible to explain simply, and the tendency when talking about Barney is to get lost in the minutiae of his art. The work can seem ingeniously complicated or nonsensical, depending on one's inclination. Suffice it to say that it is a mix of autobiography, history and private symbolism, and it has involved him doing various death-defying acts and wearing elaborate makeup and prostheses that have turned him into a woman, a satyr and, for "Cremaster 2," Gary Gilmore, the double murderer from Utah.
A good way to think about Barney's work is probably just to accept its ambiguity, which, in a sense, is his basic point. Art is unresolved, otherwise it is uninteresting, he says. Sometimes, as in the "Cremaster" films, he has stated this idea as a sexual metaphor: he or one of the characters in the films is presented so that you can't quite tell whether the sex is male or female. You might say that the fundamental goal of "Cremaster," like other works by Barney, is to maintain, through one phantasmagoric image after another, a state of creative redolence -- which, once you get down to it, is not unlike what the Surrealists and abstractionists earlier in the century were after. Barney considers himself an abstract artist.
People who think he is just a bad late Surrealist or a sensationalist are particularly upset by the scope of his success. Probably not since Jasper Johns made his debut 40 years ago has a young American artist received so much attention so fast. Barney had just graduated from Yale, where as an undergraduate he made sculptures and videos, and word had already begun to circulate about him among a few influential artists, dealers, critics and editors in New York. More buzz spread after he was in a pair of group shows in New York in 1990, at an obscure gallery called Althea Viafora, now defunct. One work he showed was a video, "Field Dressing (Orifill)," of him naked climbing up a pole and cables and applying dollops of Vaseline to his orifices. He was then invited to have a solo exhibition at Petersburg, another New York gallery, which closed before the exhibition could happen (a victim of the straitened economy of the early 90's). After that, he was taken on by two galleries, one on each coast -- Barbara Gladstone in New York and Stuart Regen in Los Angeles. By then, he was a phenomenon, more intriguing for not having yet had a solo show. It was, in a sense, the first example of what would become something of a trademark: his absence enhancing his presence on the scene. He made the cover of Artforum before the exhibition at Gladstone opened in 1991.
Because of the bad economy, galleries like Gladstone were clearly more willing than they had been a few years before (or probably are now) to risk showing someone without a track record. It helped that Barney was marketable apart from his art, with Yale connections and model good looks. For his first solo show, he videotaped himself climbing naked, this time via ice screws, across the Gladstone Gallery's ceiling, down a stairwell and into a huge walk-in refrigerator containing the weight-lifter's bench made of petroleum jelly. The 87-minute videotape was called "Blind Perineum," and the show consisted of it and other videos, the refrigerator and bench, mouth guards, a gynecological speculum, cast wedges of uncooked tapioca and the ghostly traces of his pitons and hand prints on the ceiling and walls. Some of the titles he gave to the objects in the show referred to the escapist Harry Houdini, whom he had begun to see, some years earlier, as an alter ego.
His early work was full of elaborate sexual and biological allusions and references to sports and fashion; the obvious links were to 60's and 70's predecessors like Bruce Nauman, Vito Acconci and Chris Burden. Barney's good reviews were so extensive that they almost seemed orchestrated. The bad reviews, like Hilton Kramer's, were predictably dismissive and only heightened his profile. He had captured the art world Zeitgeist of the early 90's. His emergence coincided with a spate of preachy conceptual art about identity politics, the body and sex, much of it visually meager. It reached its peak at the 1993 Whitney Biennial, where the art world seemed to be doing its version of penance for the excesses of the 80's. Some people said that Barney was a video version of Mapplethorpe; if he wasn't naked, he was, as in one video, pushing around a football player's blocking sled while dressed in a cocktail dress. Gay artists darkly joked about the fact that the most successful young gay artist had turned out not to be gay.
Barney's work was gender-bending, body-oriented and idea-laden. But it was also funny and silly -- obviously he meant us to laugh -- and in its visual extravagance, it had its own strange glamour. It certainly didn't preach.
In formal terms, it was also in tune with a younger generation's new priorities. Installations and cross-media work replaced painting as the dominant forms. Video, not traditionally a collectible, was coming into its own as the hot technology. Along with performance art, it was making a comeback, low-tech videos having been used during the 70's to record artists' performances. By devising the places where their videos were shown -- video installations -- 90's artists added the complicating elements of sculpture and theater.
Above all, video enabled them to tell stories. One upshot of that earnest, early-90's conceptual art about diversity politics and gender identity was the belief that every artist had a story to tell, the more eccentric and individual the better.
Barney had plenty of stories to tell, and they were all eccentric. People began referring to him as the Wagner of contemporary art because, like Wagner, Barney operated in a mythological language that seemed willfully irrational, and he had a plan for a cycle of works (the five "Cremaster" films) that would take years to complete. The hubris alone seemed Wagnerian.
Cremaster, as everyone remotely interested in Barney quickly came to learn, is the name of the muscle that raises or lowers a man's testicles in response to temperature. (The refrigerator in "Blind Perineum" -- the perineum is the tissue between the anus and the genitals -- was an early allusion to it.) Working out of sequence, Barney completed the first "Cremaster" film, "Cremaster 4," in 1995. Next came "Cremaster 1" and "Cremaster 5." They were wordless, except for increasingly lavish soundtracks by Jonathan Bepler, a serious young composer from Brooklyn whom Barney came to rely on. "Cremaster 1" was 40 minutes long; the others, longer. They were shown on video monitors, along with his sculptures, as part of elaborate installations, or sometimes they were screened by themselves in theaters. Barney also sold the films as limited-edition laserdisks, which he elaborately packaged so that they became sculptures.
Slow-moving and weirdly hypnotic, the films had fantastic, desolate settings -- an empty football stadium in Idaho, the Isle of Man, a nearly empty opera house in Hungary -- a sequence of sites that, not coincidentally, charted an eastward arc from Boise to Budapest -- from where Barney grew up to Harry Houdini's birthplace.
As the series went on, the films also became visually more deluxe, with saturated colors and fabulous costumes, despite budgets that, while growing, were nonetheless nonexistent by Hollywood standards.
"Cremaster 2," his first feature on high-definition television, transferred to 35-millimeter film, at 79 minutes, is by far his most extensive undertaking. Peter Strietmann, his cameraman, told me that he shot 17 minutes of tape for every minute used, a ratio far beyond Barney's previous norm. (The ratio for "Cremaster 4" was 1 to 1; for "Cremaster 5," 7 to 1.) Big-budget Hollywood movies average 12 to 1. Barney can afford to be extravagant because his operation is otherwise extraordinarily lean. The total cost of "Cremaster 2," a ravishing and extremely peculiar picture, was $1.7 million.
Back in the Armory, Barney is on stage with Norman Mailer. Mailer has volunteered to play Houdini in "Cremaster 2," Houdini having performed at the Columbian Exposition. Gary Gilmore, played by Barney, was the subject of Mailer's book "The Executioner's Song." Directing Mailer, Barney mimes the gesture of a magician rolling up his sleeve. Mailer copies him. "Perfect," Barney says, then has Mailer repeat the motion several more times on film until it gains a slow gravity. Barney manages to get what he wants without actually seeming to do or say much.
He tells me during a break, grabbing a bite and coffee from the spread of catered snacks on a table in a corner of the armory, that he wants people watching the film to see Mailer and Houdini simultaneously. Similarly, when he got Ursula Andress to play an aging queen in an earlier film, he expected you to remember her as that Bond girl, the one who emerged from the sea in "Dr. No" almost 40 years ago. Andress as Andress, like Mailer as Mailer, is Barney's way of expressing the modern sculptor's adage of "truth to materials," the material in this case being a person. Barney says he recalls thinking that Andress's wide shoulders rising out of the water added a violence to her sexiness, something suddenly he likened to the pieces that Richard Serra made in the late 60's by throwing hot lead into the corners of a room, where the lead hardened, which he said in a similar way added violence to Minimalism. Barney is always making these sort of connections.
Of medium-height, with light blue eyes and a clean, open, all-American face, Barney has an easy charm. He laughs readily; he is honest and likable, smart, intense just underneath the surface, charismatic in a soft-spoken way and not the least ironic. His looks are changeable. I stopped by his studio every few weeks over the course of a year, as he was making "Cremaster 2," and each time he seemed slightly unfamiliar. Partly this was because he was appearing in the film, so that at one point he had to grow a beard, but partly it was something else, a cipherlike quality that dovetailed with his friendly but indefinite manner. It wasn't just that he was private. It was something else -- a certain calculated distance you can also sense in his art, despite what can seem, on the surface, like its narcissism. He withholds part of himself. If he is savvy about the art world, he is also strangely remote from it at the same time. He is not so much self-absorbed as living, it seems, in his own world. He works incredibly hard. Most of the time, it is all he seems to do.
Barney, in his reticence, is a paradigm of the American art star in the 90's. He shows little and says less, which enhances his allure. He has no public profile, no social ambition or interest in money as far as anyone can see. His cachet has partly to do with his mystery. When his films are screened at the Film Forum in Manhattan, they play to a young art crowd that doesn't necessarily have any idea what it is looking at but reveres him from afar. He earns back the cost of his films (the money for them being put up in the first place by his dealer, Barbara Gladstone) through sales of limited editions of his sculptures, photographs and laserdisks. There are private buyers for his work, but it is the big museums that compete for his installations, which is clearly how a 90's star like him thrives: not by the grace of rich collectors but as a cult figure with institutional support, if that is not a contradiction in terms.
"Art needs to be defended," Barney once told me. "It's fragile. If a work is shown too many times, something gets stolen from it. You come to it with preconceptions, or you get tired of it. And it's the same with an artist. So I try to protect myself and my work. I want there to be a fraction of the art that even I don't understand."
Barney was born in San Francisco in 1967, the second of two children. (His older sister works for a software company in Seattle.) When he was 6, he moved with his family to Idaho after his father got a job administering a catering service at Boise State University. Six years after that, his parents divorced, and his mother, an abstract painter, moved to New York City. Barney stayed in Boise but regularly went to visit her, which is how he got to know what was going on in contemporary art. He contemplated playing college football but was too small for big-time athletics, and by the time he got to Yale as an undergraduate, he had settled on an art career. The summer before college, he answered an advertisement for a $250 modeling gig, was spotted by a model scout and for the next five years paid his way through school modeling.
"When I was modeling, I found it interesting," he told me one morning over breakfast at Florent, the stylish bistro where he's a regular, "that you could step outside yourself and let yourself be used as a coat hanger or puppet, especially in the performance sense: to let your body be a tool, to leave the body in the work and not really to occupy your body when you are performing."
Think of Barney's art as a jigsaw puzzle. In "Cremaster 2," it is as if he has taken the details of his life, Houdini's and Gilmore's, the history of the Mormon Church, the history of art and the material from his own earlier films and laid them all out on a table. Then he sees what fits with what, making predictably unpredictable links.
"Matthew hates anything obvious," Chelsea Romersa, his assistant, says. "Like the color red. The crew's job is to buy the scrims for the windows, to get the materials, to build the sets, and often we have to ask practical questions, but we never ask direct questions about content. By osmosis, you begin to make connections yourself, which is the real point of art anyway, don't you think?"
For a while I was confused about everything Barney did and stupefied that his crew wasn't. "I'm having a bad day," Romersa once told me when I stopped by the studio. "We lost a clown and one of our Mustangs, the male posse backed out -- I'm told it's hunting season -- and don't even ask what's going on with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir."
Eventually I caught on, however, which is how it goes with art: give it time and the penny usually drops. At one point, Barney showed me rough cuts of a scene of a man and woman in cowboy hats dancing a two-step. He explained it this way: The thin-waisted woman in the Victorian costume plays Faye Gilmore, Gary's grandmother, who once claimed to have had an illegitimate son by Houdini. The story isn't true, probably, but if it were (which is good enough for Barney), Gary would be Houdini's grandson. Gilmore was the son of a Mormon, and when he elected to be shot by a firing squad, he may, at least subconsciously, have hoped to achieve immortality according to the Mormon doctrine of blood atonement. In Barney's mind, this would be the ultimate escape, an escape from fate, although Barney prefers the word that Houdini used, "metamorphosis," which suggests a defiance or contradiction of one's normal condition (like the weight-lifter's bench made of Vaseline or the artist in a cocktail dress).
In the film, Gilmore's execution is turned, mythically, into a bull-riding scene at an arena made out of salt in the middle of the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah. From there, the film shifts to the Columbia ice field in Canada, where Barney is reimaging the World's Columbian Exposition. (The Brooklyn armory was used to stage the interior shots.) The switch between execution and exposition is therefore twofold: in terms of time, two generations backward, from Gary to the scene with Faye, his grandmother, and in terms of geology, from the flats, once a prehistoric lake, to its source, the Canadian ice field.
Get it? A two-step, which is why images of the dancers will be interspersed with images of the flats and field. But there is even more, involving the shape of the room Barney designed for the dancers doing the two-step, which is adapted from a drawing of the universe by Joseph Smith, the Mormon founder. Ultimately, the cabala is less complicated than Barney's cosmology.
It is now late October 1998, and I'm driving west 120 miles from Salt Lake City to the Bonneville Salt Flats at Wendover, Utah, on the border with Nevada, where people in Utah go to gamble. Barney is filming the bull-riding scene -- his version of Gilmore's execution -- in which he plays Gilmore, although doing the actual riding will be two professionals, who, like him, will be made up to look like Gilmore. Gabe Bartalos, Barney's prosthetics and special-effects wizard, a cheerful, burly man from Los Angeles, has manufactured a fake bull, incredibly realistic, for the part of the scene when the bull is supposed to be dying, with a pump inside it to simulate breathing. Bartalos loves working for Barney because he gets to do more on Barney's films than he could on any Hollywood movie and because Barney is blue collar: "He works harder than everyone else and he listens."
Salt has been shipped by trucks to the flats to build the bullring, which is Matt Ryle's job. Ryle, who has a wry sense of humor, is a short, sandy-haired, squarely built master of heavy construction. He devised installations for casinos in Las Vegas, among other things, and more than anyone else he is responsible for figuring out how to build the things Barney imagines. What Barney imagines in this case is a horseshoe arena on the flats -- basically, an immense hollowed-out salt mound, almost 20 feet high, with an opening on one side and four huge Fiberglas beehives, the Mormon symbol, ornamenting the top.
Barney knows the area from childhood. He went to football camp in Provo. The landscape west of Salt Lake mostly is a salt plain, flat and barren. The Bonneville Speedway, where the rocket cars race for land-speed records, is a stretch of it bounded by the snow-capped Silver Island Mountains. That's where Barney is.
Every few years the flats flood: knee-high with runoff from the mountains, making a shallow icy lake. This is one of those years. The arena that Barney's crew has built is an island in the middle of the ice water, two miles from the end of the single paved road to the flats. With the flood, the road has become a pier, itself two miles long. The arena is therefore about four miles from land. When I arrive, I park at the end of the road and then hop into a truck driven by Chris Winget, a tall soft-spoken photographer whose landscapes illustrate Barney's book for "Cremaster 2." By a circuitous route, to avoid deep water, Winget steers the truck through the flats at 10 miles an hour. The arena, glistening white-blue in the middle of nowhere, looms ahead, a rising apparition.
Barney initially had trouble receiving permission from the Federal Bureau of Land Management to build the arena because people here worried about damaging the flats. He was vague about making an art film based on Utah's least favorite former citizen, Gary Gilmore. He stressed that the film was really about landscape. It is not clear how much of the film's story is known to the brigade of women on horseback -- the Cowboy Days Ladies Flag Posse, from Evanston, Wyo. -- who will parade in the arena before the execution. There is an X-rated sex scene (between Gilmore's parents, to illustrate his conception), which would probably offend some of them if they knew about it.
People around Barney often find themselves in unexpected, alarming circumstances. That evening, after watching the bull riders, I'm driven from the arena in a jeep by someone who doesn't know the way back in the dark and gets stuck in the lake miles from the paved road. I volunteer to walk through the icy water for help, get lost and only much later stumble onto the road. Mary Farley, Barney's wife, throws my wet clothes in the laundry with the crew's and, to be nice, pretends not to notice that I'm pale and queasy.
Farley and Barney met when she worked at the Petersburg Gallery. She has just received her master's in forensic psychology and raises exotic birds, a few of which Barney included in "Cremaster 5." A thick-drawling, wisecracking blond Southerner, Farley is as voluble as Barney isn't, at least when they're together; he becomes much more outgoing on his own. She calls him David Koresh. "He's the evil Pied Piper."
Recalling the death-defying predicaments he has frequently led his crew members into, it occurs to me that like all good artists, he is a little ruthless. Art depends on resistance and risk, he thinks -- it thrives at the limits of coherence, patience, endurance, whatever. Having played football, he particularly likes the metaphor of a muscle being built up through exercises that break down tissue. In some early videos, he strained at the end of a tether, trying to make marks with a piece of chalk on sheets of paper affixed to a wall; then he jumped off a 40-foot pier in "Cremaster 4" and off a bridge, attached to a bungee cord, in "Cremaster 5."
In a sense, he expects his crew and his audience to take a leap, too.
Back in Manhattan, Barney's studio, a rabbit warren in the recently chic meat-packing district, is about as glamorous as a sweatshop, but big. Late in the spring of 1999, Barney is editing "Cremaster 2" and preparing an exhibition for the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, where the film will be screened. Downstairs from the studio is a new restaurant, opening today. Barney and his crew are on the street carving thousand-pound blocks of salt with chain saws for the upcoming show. The managers of the restaurant are apoplectic.
Barney is a strange mix of vulnerable and impenetrable. He told me once that his bad reviews are much more memorable to him than his good ones. "I'm afraid they may be on to something," he said. "And they hurt." But he is incredibly strong-willed and, in a sense, divorced from outside influence. He tells me that a portion of the new film, including the sex scene between the parents, was shown to some students at Vassar recently and they complained that it was pornography. What did he make of that? "I think it's simply not true," he says.
It is not clear how much he sees or thinks about anything other young artists are doing or saying. The gibe is often made about him that his sculptures are, in the end, just film props transplanted to a gallery. But evidently he pays no attention, insisting that he is primarily a sculptor and that his films are, if anything, sculptural.
They do have an odd sculptural quality: scenes often begin and end with framing shots, like brackets, that slow the pace and set one image apart from another, making them seem almost like separate objects. You sometimes feel as if you're circling an image, the way you would circle a sculpture, considering it from different angles. I realized that it is possible to become so fixated on the iconography of Barney's films that one can forget how much Barney is focused on pure visual effects: colors, shapes, the relationship of forms.
I asked him one afternoon an obvious question, whether the "Cremaster" series is on some level about his own sexuality. "Sure, it has to do with my own identity," he answered. He uses a particular medical analogy: in utero, there's a period when a person's sex is still indeterminate, the fetus seeming to have the potential to be either sex, before the testes have descended or the ovaries settled. Plenty of images in his films and many of his sculptures imply body parts that relate to this theme -- the goal posts on the football field in "Cremaster 1" are schematic versions of the still-undifferentiated reproductive system; motorcyclists on the Isle of Man in "Cremaster 4" trace ascending and descending paths. "Cremaster 5" ends with a scene in which Barney's character's testicles descend into a pool of water.
But I came to think that Barney, the actor, is only what you see on screen; he is not necessarily the subject of his work, a distinction worth making with someone for whom the body is a flexible metaphor. In fact, "Cremaster 2" doesn't really have much to do with gender or sexual identity in the end. If it is at all autobiographical, it is in a different sense. The West is represented by the isolation and insularity of the Mormon hive. Barney, the boy from Boise, left the West for New York and a life as an artist. He once described Boise to me as "a valley full of pressure, the pressure of that wall of mountains combined with the great distances between places: it was something to overcome." "Cremaster 3," the next and last film to be completed in the cycle, will take place in Manhattan.
Barney is ultimately the most important American artist of his generation because his imagination is so big. In "Cremaster 2," a few scenes drag; some parts look tacked on. Snippets of dialogue, which Barney has added partly to make the film more comprehensible to general moviegoers, come across as stilted; they won't help you unless you're already clued in, and if you're clued in, they're superfluous. This is one example of why it's wrong to think, as some people do, that Barney is an artist aspiring to be a Hollywood director. His work has nothing really to do with films in the sense that most people think of them, except, maybe, for Bunuel's and Dali's films. He is a visual artist using moving images.
Parts of "Cremaster 2" are laugh-out-loud silly, intentionally or not, but mostly the film is dark, the colors dense, the images kaleidoscopic and solemn -- beginning with an image of a saddle, which segues into a frozen landscape that mirrors the saddle's form, later becoming the film's best special effect: a recreation, with choir, of the Mormon Tabernacle. If you've seen a few other Barney films, you begin to spot familiar images -- the women on horseback at the salt arena echo the dancers in "Cremaster 1"; the inside of Gilmore's car is like the tunnel in "Cremaster 4" -- and these recurrent motifs create an incantatory effect.
Art is supposed to stick in your mind, and sometimes your craw. Barney's films do both. In the end, the "Cremaster" cycle can be seen as an allegory of the creative process itself, with sexual identity as a metaphor within it, but not the only metaphor. "I've begun to see the five parts differently," Barney says at the end of our conversations, in his office at the studio, surrounded by plans for the next "Cremaster." "I've begun to see them in terms of having an idea in '1,' rejecting it in '2,' experiencing a kind of narcissistic interlude in '3,' panicking in '4' and resolving the idea in '5,' which ultimately kills the thing.
"After I understand something completely, I'm not interested in it anymore," he says, raising a familiar topic. "Being in fashion was useful to me because I know how people can be used up, how they're hot and then they become yesterday's news. I find this curious, the way energy dissipates from a source through that kind of exploitation -- and I want to figure out how to make it into art."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Richard J. Burbridge); The one obvious thing about Barney's films is that nothing is obvious. In "Cremaster 2," opening this week in New York, he somehow connects the dots between Harry Houdini, Gary Gilmore, the Mormon Church and more, and turns it all into art. Norman Mailer, left, is Houdini; Barney is Gilmore. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times; Chris Winget/Barney Studio; Chelsea Romersa/Barney Studio); Barney had salt shipped to the Bonneville Salt Flats, top, so he could make a bullring out of it for "Cremaster 2." Below, filming the Evanston Cowboy Days Ladies Flag Posse as it enters the arena. The dots do get connected.; Barney as the Queen's Giant in "Cremaster 5," far left, and as the Loughton Candidate in "Cremaster 4," above left, and Gary Gilmore in "Cremaster 2." Given his mythological muse and his plan for a cycle of works, he has been called the Wagner of contemporary art. (Michael James O'Brien/Barney Studio; Peter Strietmann/Barbara Gladstone Gallery); His debut in New York consisted of an 87-minute videotape called "Blind Perineum," containing the above-mentioned naked climb, as well as other videos, mouth guards, a gynecological speculum and wedges of uncooked tapioca.; "Cremaster 2," which was shot as high-definition television and then transferred to 35-millimeter film, cost $1.7 million and is Barney's largest undertaking to date. More dots to connect: on the left, Gary Gilmore's first victim; on the right, dancing the two-step. (Peter Strietmann/Barbara Gladstone Gallery; Michael James O'Brien/Barbara Gladstone Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); IDAHO, USA (68%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); IDAHO, USA (68%); BOISE, ID, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (59%); 

PERSON: MATTHEW BARNEY (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



207 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 77; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 8201 words

HEADLINE: The Search Engine

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis; Michael Lewis is a contributing writer for the magazine. This article is adapted from "The New New Thing," to be published later this month by W.W. Norton.

 BODY:
The United States obviously occupies a strange place in the world. It is the capital of innovation, of material prosperity, of a certain kind of energy, of certain kinds of freedom and of transience. Silicon Valley is to the United States what the United States is to the rest of the world. It is one of those places, unlike the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but like Las Vegas, that is unimaginable anyplace but in the United States. It is distinctively us. Within this unusual place some people have clearly been more unusual than others. Many of those who sought and found fortune in Silicon Valley in the 1990's could just as easily have found it on Wall Street in the 1980's or in London in the 1860's. But a certain type of person who has made it big in Silicon Valley could have made it big at no other time in history. He was built to work on the frontier of economic life when the frontier was once again up for grabs. He was designed for rapid social and technological change. He was the starter of new things.
Oddly enough, this character could not describe what he did for a living. When a person sets out to find the new idea that will a) make him rich, and b) throw entire industries into turmoil, and c) cause ordinary people to sit up and say, "My God, something just changed," he isn't doing science. He isn't engaged in what any serious thinker would call thought. Unless he makes a lot of money he isn't even treated as a businessman, at least not by serious businessmen. He might call himself an "entrepreneur," but the currency of that word has been debased. Really, there's no good word for what he does. I first noticed this problem when I watched one of these people -- a man who had made himself a billion dollars -- try to fill out a simple questionnaire. On the line that asked him to state his occupation he did not know what to write. Searcher? He couldn't very well put down that. 
 For that matter, there is no name for what he's looking for. It's a new thing, or rather the new new thing. It's easier to say what the new new thing is not than to say what it is. It is not necessarily a new invention. It is not even, necessarily, a new idea -- most everything has been considered by someone, at some point. The new new thing is a notion that's poised to be taken seriously. It's the idea that is moments from gaining general acceptance and, when it does, will change the world.
 
 II.
On the face of it, Jim Clark seemed poorly designed to pursue the new new thing. He grew up poor in Plainview, Tex., where poor meant poor. He'd been an indifferent student and a cutup -- one of those great bad examples to youth who prove that if you really want to be a success in American life, you have to start by offending your elders. Expelled from high school during his junior year, in 1961, Clark enlisted in the Navy. Quickly identified as a problem recruit, he was assigned to nine months of menial labor at sea. Upon his return the Navy gave him a math test. Clark scored the highest grade in the class. He was unaware that he had any particular aptitude for math and didn't quite believe the result. A few weeks after that his boss, an electronics technician, told him that it had been a long time since he'd encountered someone so naturally gifted in mathematics and encouraged him to pursue a college degree. Within eight years Clark had that degree, plus a masters in physics, plus a Ph.D. in computer science.
And yet -- here was the thing -- he was perfectly miserable. He'd been channeled into the university only because he had no place else to go. By the 1970's he had run through two marriages and several college teaching jobs. In 1978 he landed in the Stanford University computer-science department, where he specialized mainly in self-pity. "One day I was sitting at home," Clark says, "and I remember having the conscious thought, You can dig this hole as deep as you want to dig it. I was 38 years old. I had achieved nothing. I developed this maniacal passion for wanting to achieve something." He pauses, then says, "I guess it was a little bit of self-imposed psychology."
In something like an instant Clark changed his life. He reinvented his relationship to the world around him in a way that is considered normal only in California. No one who had been in his life to that point would be in it 10 years later. His wife, his friends, his colleagues -- they'd all be new. Suddenly the best computer-science students at Stanford were seeking him out. The best computer-science students at Stanford were the best computer-science students anywhere. Clark put them to work on his private project, a little computer chip he was designing called the geometry engine. The geometry engine made it possible to create a simulation of reality on the computer screen, using three-dimensional graphics processed in real time. It was Clark's first taste of the new new thing. In 1981 it became the basis for a new company, founded by Clark and his students, called Silicon Graphics. Silicon Graphics became a multibillion-dollar company and Clark became a multimillionaire.
And yet . . . the man was still miserable! Clark found that he was as ill designed for life inside a big corporation as he was for life inside a big university. The big corporation soon had a C.E.O., a Serious American Executive from Hewlett-Packard named Ed McCracken, who kicked Clark upstairs into the office of chairman. There Clark sank into another of his dangerous depressions. All through the late 1980's he sowed strife and discontent in his own enterprise, complaining to underlings that McCracken was an idiot, that he couldn't see the future, that Silicon Graphics was doomed unless it perpetually reinvented itself. The idea Clark became wedded to, in the early 1990's, was to turn an ordinary television set into a computer. The telecomputer, he called it. The point was to enable the viewer to interact with his black box. You'd tell the telecomputer what you wanted and it would fetch it for you. You could shop through it. You could send instant messages through it and receive messages back. You could order up any movie you wanted.
In 1991 Clark proposed the idea to McCracken. He and Clark did not get along, and to McCracken the telecomputer was just another flaky idea from his flaky chairman. Clark, increasingly alienated from the company he created, found another outlet for his ambition, the media. And he found that hype had its own wonderful generative power: the more he talked about his telecomputer the more people wanted to hear about it. "I thought, 'I can say whatever I want,"' Clark says. "And by God if I go out and talk about it enough, Ed won't have any choice but to build it."'
Clark formalized his opinions at a trade show for the computer-graphics industry in 1992. He explained that while computer memory at the time made such a device too costly to be mass-marketed, computer memory in 1995 would be a different story. "Over the next four to five years, unprecedented change will occur," he told his audience, as multimedia technology enters the home via the telecomputer. . . . In time, all media will be available in dynamic form." He was wrong about all of this -- at least in his timing. He was off and running down a dark tunnel that ran directly into a brick wall. But at least he was running.
In any case, it soon emerged that Time Warner believed the world was ready for this new machine -- which was called interactive television -- and was willing to pay Silicon Graphics $30 million to build one, largely on the strength of Jim Clark's involvement. Whatever Silicon Graphics built would be installed in 4,000 homes that Time Warner was wiring for the occasion in Orlando, Fla. Almost overnight, just about every big company that had anything to do with information or entertainment leapt into the action. At Silicon Graphics, Ed McCracken quickly made the project his own.
But by the time the press piled into Orlando for a demonstration in December 1994, Jim Clark had up and quit Silicon Graphics and said he was going to start his own company. This was a bad sign for the telecomputer, though few appreciated just how bad a sign until it was too late. Clark was intent on inventing a new role for himself. Maybe the simplest way to describe it is the way Clark described it to himself: the guy who finds the new new thing and makes it happen wins. The engineers who help him to do it finish second. The financiers and the corporate statesmen, the suckerfish of economic growth, finish a distant third. Of course Clark was not the first engineer with a taste for money and power. He was just the one who finally said, "Now's the time to take it."
But that version of events is misleadingly neat. Clark didn't conceptualize his new role; he groped for it. He wanted to create the company that invented the future. Once he'd done that he wanted to do it again and again and again and again. For his services he wanted to be treated better, and paid more, than anyone else.
At first Clark believed the Orlando Project might end well. He talked about creating new applications for the telecomputer. To do that he needed young software talent, and to that end he called a 22-year-old not long out of the University of Illinois and new to the Valley named Marc Andreessen. Clark had seen a piece of software that Andreessen had helped to write in college, called Mosaic. Mosaic enabled its user to travel around this thing called the Internet. Why anyone would wish to do so was at the time unclear.
About the first thing Andreessen said was that he didn't want to make a business of Mosaic. Clark didn't care; he just figured Andreessen would know a lot of software cowboys. For the next month or so, Clark would spew ideas, Andreessen would jot them up in a business plan. Almost all of these ideas assumed the telecomputer was the future. Then one day, as Andreessen and Clark sat at Clark's kitchen table, Clark announced that he'd changed his mind. This wasn't unusual: Clark was always changing his mind. Now he said that his telecomputer was ahead of its time. It was too expensive to build.
"We could always build a Mosaic killer," said Andreessen.
"What do you mean?" said Clark. Andreessen said that the University of Illinois had his software but that he also felt sure they'd bungle any subsequent attempt to commercialize it. He mentioned that 25 million people were now using the World Wide Web, and that their numbers had been doubling every year for a long time. Clark recalls: "I thought, Jesus, those are big numbers. I've never been in a business with those kind of big numbers. Eventually you were talking about all the people on earth."
The Internet. "All of a sudden it was clear to me when I looked at the Internet that I was looking at the personal computer in 1985," Clark said. "It was this slow, clunky technology but people were using it. And it would get faster. I realized that this was the thing I'd been groping for." He and Andreessen hired Andreessen's college buddies who had written the code for Mosaic, and Clark had yet another team of young engineers to lead into battle. He called the company Mosaic Communications, then changed the name to Netscape.
This time Jim Clark was right. He was off and running down the dark tunnel with no end. Within 18 months the world's biggest technology companies realized they'd been trumped. Bill Gates sent a memo to his employees saying that the Internet now posed the greatest threat to Microsoft's control of the computer industry. The 1,000 Microsoft employees dedicated to building a telecomputer were reassigned to compete with Jim Clark's start-up. Thousands of others at Oracle and Sun Microsystems and even Time Warner were similarly redirected.
Clark's new company did not become merely a success. It torpedoed investments of hundreds of millions by the world's biggest corporations and reputedly smartest minds -- Silicon Graphics, Time Warner, Microsoft, Sun, Oracle, AT&T. Thousands of people had more or less wasted billions of dollars, and whether they knew it or not they had been following his lead. Then, just as they all ran as a herd in one direction, Clark took off in another. And within six months he made them all look like fools. It was one of the great unintentional head fakes in the history of technology.
 
 III.
By the fall of 1995 Clark had finished with Netscape. Having learned from Silicon Graphics that he did not really belong inside a large organization, he would design all future large organizations without a place for himself inside. He kept the title of chairman, and sat on the Netscape board, and held onto most of his 19 million or so shares. But to Clark it already seemed clear that the Internet-browser business would one day be devoured by Microsoft, so he was thinking about how to make himself another billion dollars to replace the billion he might lose to Bill Gates. That was the starting point: how to make not millions but billions of dollars. Quickly. It took him four months to come up with an answer.
In late 1995 Clark found out he had a rare disease, hemochromatosis. Essentially, his blood absorbed more iron than his body needed. The disease required Clark to visit the hospital once every few weeks, and the blizzard of forms and the bureaucracy was more than Clark could be expected to tolerate. It got him thinking of a solution.
Americans were spending $1 trillion a year on their health care, and about a quarter of that was pure waste. Much of the waste could be avoided simply by eliminating the paperwork. Since much of the paperwork seemed designed to prevent the patient from getting what he wanted when he wanted it, eliminating it would please the customer. The Internet was made for such tasks: in effect, the Internet enabled all of the many parties of any health-care transaction to be present in the same room. The patient could walk into the office of a doctor he'd never met, supply the doctor with a password and a few seconds later the doctor would have his medical records and insurance coverage. A few minutes after the patient left, the doctor would bill the insurer over the Internet and be paid by the insured over the Internet. If the patient needed drugs, those, too, could be ordered via keyboard and screen, right in the doctor's office. No forms, no papers, no hassle.
Clark sat down with a piece of paper -- a piece of paper! -- and drew this little diagram.
payers
doctors . providers
consumers
The way he drew it made it come out as a neat little diamond. The Magic Diamond. Clark thought a minute about the spot in the middle, which is of course where he assumed any company he would create belonged. Say there was a quarter of a trillion dollars a year or so of pure waste. Say he cut out half of that and kept the rest as profit. He'd still be bigger than Microsoft, and Microsoft was by then on its way to becoming the most highly valued company in the country.
Any other human being would have been tossed in an asylum for thinking such grandiose thoughts. Clark had invented Jim Clark, and so he was taken seriously.
 
 IV.
Not long after Clark drew the Magic Diamond with himself at the center of the American health-care industry, he went to see the venture capitalists. The venture capitalists advertised themselves as the great financial risk-takers of Silicon Valley, but you could learn everything you needed to know about their attitudes toward risk simply by driving up Sand Hill Road. Sand Hill Road was where the V.C.'s clustered together for safety, like ducks in a park waiting for the bread crumbs to fall. Each time Clark made this trip the ducks came out of it worse than the time before -- the price of the crumbs rose, and they had to quack louder for them.
When Clark had gone to see the venture capitalists about Netscape it was with the understanding that he would act as C.E.O. until the company was up and running. This time he proposed not only that he take home the lion's share of the stock in the new company, but also that the venture capitalists do all the actual work. Clark had no plans to spend even a day in the offices of his new company, which would eventually be known as Healtheon. He had ceased to be a businessman and become a conceptual artist.
Amazingly, the question in his mind was not whether a venture capitalist would accept this deal, but which venture capitalist he would grace with his presence. Before Netscape went public, a lot of V.C.'s had thought John Doerr and his firm, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, had been mad to agree to Clark's terms. Clark made Doerr put up three times the going rate for start-up capital. But Doerr eventually cleared $500 million or so in 18 months, or 30 times his original investment, and became the most talked-about venture capitalist on Sand Hill Road.
Dick Kramlich from the venture firm New Enterprise Associates, which had the Valley's biggest pile of venture money and health-care expertise, made the strongest pitch for Healtheon. Clark happened to carry a grudge against Kramlich, who had once sided with McCracken in a dispute Clark had with McCracken at Silicon Graphics. But Clark had a motive for reconsidering his irritation with Kramlich: he was now even more irritated with John Doerr.
Clark has one of those faces that virtually screams what he is feeling. Irritation for him was not an ordinary low-level emotional event. Along with its brother, impatience, irritation was the sensation Clark felt most keenly. His face would redden and his mouth would twist up into a mouth-of-the-volcano pucker as if it was trying to suppress the inevitable explosion. Whenever Doerr's name came up, Clark's mouth went into full pucker mode.
When Clark had offered Doerr the chance to invest in Netscape, Doerr was rather down on his luck. Between 1991 and 1993 Doerr had persuaded a lot of people, himself included, that the future of the valley was in pen computing. Pen computing was a version of the Palm Pilot, ahead of its time. Doerr had burned tens of millions of capital on a dramatic failure to stuff computers into ordinary people's pockets called GO. After GO, Doerr seized on interactive television. He took to making futuristic speeches about how interactive television would transform the world.
Clark had rescued Doerr from that particular blind alley, and then helped him to cook up other new Internet companies. One of those companies was @Home. Clark and Doerr shared an obsession with Microsoft. Both felt that the Internet would be too big for Microsoft to ignore. They assumed, further, that a few years down the road the Internet would enter people's homes through their television cables, which could transmit data much faster than phone lines. Ergo, Microsoft would seek to dominate the cable Internet industry. @Home was designed to secure the cable industry for Silicon Valley.
The important work was in the concepts, so far as Clark was concerned, and the concept for @Home had been at least as much his as it was Doerr's. And yet Doerr's firm, Kleiner Perkins, had denied Clark the chance to buy a piece of @Home. Clark responded by telling Doerr that he planned to go elsewhere with his concepts.
Now he had one. At New Enterprise Associates, Kramlich gathered his partners into a conference room. Clark drew the Magic Diamond and announced he was going to "fix the U.S. health-care system." Kramlich and his partners responded just as Clark assumed they should. They wanted a piece of the action. Clark now possessed a new kind of power -- he could go anywhere he wanted with his precious concepts, and if the venture capitalists did something he did not like, he would leave.
Inevitably, the venture capitalists did something he did not like. Toward the end of October 1995, Dick Kramlich invited an executive from Silicon Graphics who happened to have been an Ed McCracken sympathizer to become a partner at New Enterprise. In theory, this should have been none of Clark's business; in practice, he fired off an intemperate E-mail to several New Enterprise employees. He intended to "recruit heavily" from Silicon Graphics, and bringing this executive into the New Enterprise fold meant a possibility of leaks. "Anyway," he concluded, "I think you'll probably have to co-invest with K.P." -- John Doerr's firm, Kleiner Perkins -- and if I detect any problems with these guys hearing about my recruiting, I will move away from N.E.A. pronto."
Inside New Enterprise, half the firm was furious Kramlich had done a deal with the devil; the other half was furious the deal had not yet been fully consummated. Within days Clark had called a meeting with New Enterprise that included John Doerr. Within weeks Clark had agreed to split the equity into 11 parts, with Kleiner Perkins and himself each taking 4 parts and New Enterprise getting only 2.
Improbably, Clark had been catapulted to the top of the capitalist food chain. And he was at best ambivalent about young men in suits who had gone to business school and never run a real risk in their lives. He certainly was never going to let them have their way, unless their way happened to be his way. This raises an obvious question: why did the world's most important venture capitalists put up with Clark? Surely, it would have been easy enough for Kleiner Perkins or New Enterprise to announce that they were backing someone else to do the same thing. Valley venture capitalists stole each other's ideas all the time. Right from the start Clark put much less effort into his enterprise than they did. And yet not once did anyone dare to suggest that Clark was not carrying his load, or that the business would be better off without him.
That was the miracle of Jim Clark: by the end of 1995 he had created a money-making machine in which he was the least easily replaced part. If you were going to seize control of a $1 trillion industry you needed a certain authority with the engineering class. The software that was required to link the entire American health-care industry was not trivial to design. The land-grab logic of the Internet meant that it had to be thrown together about three times as fast as it should. To build a complicated piece of software so quickly you needed engineers -- and not just any engineers. You needed the smartest engineers. By late 1995 the smartest engineers in Silicon Valley had a lot of choice in how they spent their time. To attract the smartest engineers you needed to persuade people you had the new new thing. At that time no one in the valley had the same authority with the engineers as Clark.
 
 V.
One of those engineers was Pavan Nigam, and by late 1995 Pavan Nigam's mental state was not good. Having been at Silicon Graphics for six years, he had just finished 18 putatively spectacular months at the company, where he had been the boss of the most glamorous engineering project in the valley: the creation of the world's first working interactive television. He had hired 50 of the smartest engineers ever assembled under one roof. He had spent 300 million research dollars from various corporations. He had had his name and his picture in the newspaper. And all he had to show for it was a black box that was supposed to sit on top of people's TV's but was hopelessly out of touch with the market. Not a single one was ever sold to a consumer.
That experience had pretty much shattered Nigam's faith in pure technical virtuosity, or what he called "the religion of technology." Great technical success had proven to be a great commercial failure. "Just a bunch of engineers solving problems," as Nigam put it, derisively. The main lesson Nigam extracted from the bitter experience was: Watch what Jim Clark did, not what he said. "I remember thinking," he says, "that if I could find out whatever Jim Clark planned to do next, I would do that."
He would soon find out, because Clark was looking for engineering talent, and in particular he had his sights on the Indian engineers at Silicon Graphics who had taught him how to write code and then built the world's first interactive television. Clark had a thing for Indians. "The Indian outcasts of Silicon Valley," he usually called them, "my Indian hordes," in less sober moments. "As a concentrated group," he said, "they were the most talented engineers in the valley. . . . And they work their butts off."
As it happened, the education system in India had been built to find and cultivate precisely those skills that Clark, and people like Clark, valued most. Of course, that isn't how it was originally conceived. Back in the late 40's, India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, believed that India was more likely to remain independent if it made itself technologically equal to its former rulers. To that end he created a ruthlessly efficient mechanism for finding and exploiting Indian technical talent. By the time Nehru finished engineering Indian society, every parent in the country wanted his son to become either a doctor or an engineer. This system designed to churn out engineers for a third-world economy would soon be used to its greatest effect in the quest for the new new thing. Indian engineers flooded Silicon Valley in the 1980's and 1990's. By 1996 nearly half the 55,000 temporary visas issued by the United States Government to high-tech workers went to Indians. The definitive smell inside a Silicon Valley start-up was of curry.
Jim Clark called Pavan Nigam and told him about his idea for making him rich. Nigam was at first very excited; then he became nervous. Software engineers went hunting in packs: he couldn't do such a big project alone. Where would he find the engineers he needed to help him? Nigam often said that "the difference between a great software guy and an O.K. software guy is huge. A great software guy is worth 10 times an O.K. software guy." And since it was not ethical for Nigam to recruit from his current employer, where would he find the brilliant engineers he would need to succeed? "You won't have to recruit," said Clark. "They'll follow you."
Pavan Nigam resigned from Silicon Graphics on a Friday afternoon in February 1996. He had no idea who might join him. He still suspected that no one would join, and that he would become a Silicon Valley laughingstock. So far as he was aware, the only people who knew what he was up to were himself, Clark and a few of Clark's venture capitalists.
When he arrived home that Friday evening he found that several dozen people had faxed their resumes to his home machine. On Saturday morning his phone began to ring. The first callers were engineers Nigam knew from Silicon Graphics. Within a few hours the callers were complete strangers who worked for companies Nigam had never heard of. The moment Nigam ended one conversation the phone rang and he started all over again. By Sunday morning the engineers who had been unable to get through to Nigam on the phone started turning up at his front door. By Monday morning more than 300 engineers had faxed resumes to his home machine, and countless others had phoned, to apply for a job with Jim Clark's new new thing. And none of them had the faintest idea what, precisely, it was.
 
 VI.
This was where his job ended, so far as Clark was concerned. Other people could take care of the messy details of turning Healtheon into a giant corporation. That's what he always said just after he had disgorged the new new thing, and the new new thing became, simply, the new thing.
One morning around this time I was talking to Clark, and he went off on an old-fashioned tear the point of which was that Healtheon would prove that he had nothing more to prove. "They can say that Silicon Graphics and Netscape were just luck," he said, "but when I do it again, and Healtheon will do it, they can't say it was just luck. I don't have to do it again." Not long after that he said, "But it would be something to do a fourth, wouldn't it?"
Well before Healtheon became a success, Clark was groping. (He had a notion about an Internet company that could bring rich people together into a kind of cartel.) Each time was harder than the time before because each new idea had to be bigger than the one before. Netscape had been bigger than Silicon Graphics; Healtheon, he felt sure, would be even bigger than Netscape. What was bigger than Healtheon? "I could always make $50 million," he explained to me once. "But who needs that?"
 
 VII.
New companies are sold to the public in much the same spirit as new books, new music and new politicians. The sellers -- the person with the idea for a new, new thing, the new company's people and the person from the bank handling the initial public offering, or I.P.O. -- leap onto airplanes and fly to many cities where they put on a show for the perfect strangers who they hope will buy their product. In the case of a new company the strangers are money managers, and the show is called "the roadshow."
The Healtheon roadshow had the same two stages as most roadshows for Silicon Valley companies. The first stage was in Europe, in October of last year. Europe was a useful place to open not because it had a lot of money managers dying to invest in new technology companies but because it didn't. Europeans were clueless about new things, not to mention new new things. Europe was the place to polish the act before taking it onto the stage that really mattered, the United States. "What we'll tell Americans when we come back is far more complicated," said the man from the bank, in this case Morgan Stanley, as the plane, Clark's jet, leveled at 37,000 feet.
Healtheon's C.E.O., Mike Long, was a Serious American Executive with prematurely gray hair who had built a successful computer-services business in Austin, Tex. Once over the Atlantic, Long and his chief financial officer, Jay Westermann, reviewed their slide show. The slide show was the preferred technique for rendering essentially abstract concepts -- the future," "software," "the U.S. health-care industry" -- concrete. Until they have seen a slide show, investors do not truly believe they have been shown a business.
The first slide in the show was a new diagram, even more impressive than the Magic Diamond. Informally known as the Chart of Many Bubbles -- 11, to be exact -- it still showed Healtheon in the center. But now the little company, which had about 600 employees, sat in the middle of many obviously complicated things. The Chart of Many Bubbles proved that Mike Long, before he took over the health-care industry, had at least bothered to learn the names of its component parts.
I should say that from the start it was clear this was not Clark's roadshow but Mike Long's. Clark was along only because Long had asked him to come. After all, Jim Clark had made a lot of money for investors over the years. Clark for his part would have preferred to be doing something else, but he listened politely as Long rehearsed his presentation.
Long seemed to realize that he could never truly explain Healtheon's software, or the American health-care industry, to foreigners. He groped for a simpler way to show Europeans exactly how Healtheon intended to seize the world's largest market. "I sort of like the 'physician metric,"' he said. He sounded hopeful but looked weary. He hadn't slept properly in several days.
The physician metric was a complicated-sounding phrase for a simple idea: the number of doctors who used Healtheon's service. Investors liked to be able to count progress in dollars. Long wanted them to count progress in doctors.
"I like the physician metric too," said the Morgan Stanley man.
"You think there are too many things on that slide?" Long asked, holding up one chart that followed the Chart of Many Bubbles. The slide was a war zone of arrows and swooshes.
"The simpler the better," said the Morgan Stanley man. "Think AOL. One of the great things about America Online was that they hammered into the heads of investors the idea that all that mattered was the number of subscribers."
Clark said, "That's exactly right."
The Morgan Stanley man became more enthusiastic about the physician metric. He wanted to call Mary Meeker, the Morgan Stanley analyst who was fast making a name for herself as the leading authority on Internet businesses, and "bake" into her mind the idea that investors should focus only on the number of physicians hooked up to Healtheon's service. Long leaned over to Clark and said, "Hell, we could get 150,000 more physicians with just two deals."
"Really?" said Clark. He was interested again.
Now the two men danced together around the next heuristic problem: how to explain to investors how much money Healtheon intended to make, without sounding absurd. "I don't think I have to say it," said Long. "I think all I have to do is say that there are 700,000 physicians in the United States and that we feel we have a legitimate shot in signing up 500,000 of those. Each doctor represents $20,000 a year in revenues. I'll just say, 'You do the math."'
Clark thought this was a great idea, as did the man from Morgan Stanley. You do the math. The Healtheon men and their banker were not just creating a presentation. They were inventing the manner in which their business would be judged, at least for the next few years, while they lost great sums of money. You do the math became one of Mike Long's favorite phrases. You do the math gave the investors something to do with their hands while he spoke. And if they actually did the math they arrived at the most fantastic sums. Multiply 500,000 doctors by $20,000 a year and you wound up with $10 billion a year in revenues. Microsoft had $14 billion annually in revenues.
 
 VIII.
The first two days, in London, Long made his pitch seven times inside of 36 hours. He was moving too fast to notice that something was terribly wrong. It wasn't until the third morning, at a breakfast meeting in a fancy Amsterdam hotel, when it dawned on him, as it dawned on everyone else, how unlikely he was to sell this vision to anyone, much less sell the new new thing to Europeans. Change required optimism, and optimism was suddenly scarce. The New York stock market had finished 200 points lower the day before, having fallen 250 points the day before that. The Bloomberg News Service had an article quoting I.P.O. experts on the new pessimism of financial markets.
The roadshow moved from London to Amsterdam, where Clark arrived at a breakfast pitch meeting with a stack of faxes from Healtheon's publicist. They turned out to be Healtheon's first reviews. There was a front-page article in The Wall Street Journal, a big spread in Business Week, a smaller spread in U.S. News & World Report and a long article from Bloomberg News. Before his slide show Long declined to read any of them. Still, he could see from Clark's face that the reviews were not good. Long looked around for the slide projector. It didn't exist. Normally the slide projector had something wrong with it but at least it existed. Long looked out over the breakfast table. Along it sat half a dozen surprisingly young Dutch men with their pallid Dutch skin and lank Dutch hair. They dug into droopy cheese sandwiches. Cheese sandwiches! At 7 in the morning! The thought did not obviously interfere with their pleasure in the free meal. Each one of them ate for three. The gusto with which they attacked the cheese sandwiches caused Long to wonder if they had come, perhaps, for the food. Were these people really the power brokers of the Northern European financial markets? Of course not! The power brokers were all back in their offices trying to figure out how to sell their Internet stocks.
Wearily, without a projector, Long produced a paper version of his slide show. He held it up before him, like a second-grade teacher with an alphabet chart. The first slide was no longer the Chart of Many Bubbles. The Chart of Many Bubbles had baffled one too many Englishmen. The first slide was now a list of the people who sat on Healtheon's board of directors: Jim Clark, John Doerr, Dick Kramlich, a virtual who's who of Silicon Valley. "Everyone at our company who is not on this chart," Long said, "is under 26 years old and works 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and sleeps in his cubicle."
No one at the conference table laughed. No one even broke a smile. From their expressions of incomprehension it was unclear whether they understood English.
Still, Long worked his way steadily through the slide show. Still, the phrases rolled off his tongue: The Internet changes everything. . . . A $1 trillion market is ours to win or lose. . . . You do the math. . . .
Their Dutch faces remained uninspired. There was not the slightest sign of comprehension in them. If there was a sound in that room it was the sound of air being let out of a tire.
After the paper slide show we drove in silence back to Clark's jet. There, while detained on the runway, Long asked for and received the front-page article from The Wall Street Journal. He sat in one of the big swivel chairs and placed the article on his lap, unread. He could have been a movie director preparing to read the reviews of his latest film, or a politician checking the papers to see how his latest policy speech went down. For the next hour he read and reread the article many times. He read it front to back, then back to front. He skipped to the middle to re-examine a particularly noxious passage. He put it down, then picked it up again as if starting in on it fresh might somehow alter its meaning. In that hour Long did not speak, or change expression. He was a man in a trance.
The article quoted industry experts saying things like "a lot of the challenges we face in health care have very little to do with the Internet." It pointed out that Nigam and his team of engineers were late delivering Healtheon's software to doctors and left it to the reader to surmise that this just might be because the software did not work. Mike Long, like everyone else on board the jet, up to and including Clark's pilots, who held shares in Healtheon, knew instantly that the roadshow was over. Oh, they would travel from city to city in the United States with the slide show. They would explain the Chart of Many Bubbles 50 times more. But wherever they went in America the article in The Wall Street Journal would precede them. That article was the final rite of passage for Mike Long, the Serious American Executive.
"Pavan doesn't fidget," Long finally said. His voice was cold with anger.
"What?" asked Clark, who through it all had been sitting next to Long and paying him no attention.
"It says here that 'Pavan Nigam "fidgeted" when asked for a firm delivery date' for the software. Pavan does not fidget." Then Long tossed the article onto the seat and wandered back to a sofa to take a nap. Clark just watched him leave. "Mike's going to have to get used to the press," was all that Clark said.
A few weeks later the man from Morgan Stanley drove from his office on Sand Hill Road down to Healtheon and told Mike Long that they hadn't found enough interested investors to justify taking Healtheon public. A few hours later, after a conversation with Clark, Mike Long canceled the deal. Then he called all the employees together in a conference room and persuaded them that one day soon they would triumph.
But even as he spoke he knew he had one very immediate problem: he needed another $40 million just to keep the company running. He called the Wall Street bankers, and the venture capitalists and Jim Clark, and told them.
At that moment, I think, it dawned on Clark that the food chain of capitalism was missing a link, and that, if he summoned the nerve to hoist himself up, he could be that link. And that if he didn't have the nerve to do so he would make a mockery of his entire remarkable climb. His role in the valley was clear: he was the author of the story. He was the man with the nerve to invent the tale in which all the characters -- the engineers, the V.C.'s, the managers, the bankers -- agreed to play the role he assigned to them. And if he was going to retain his privilege of telling the stories, he had to make sure that the stories had happy endings. If that meant supplying $40 million more to Healtheon, with the markets falling fast and the financiers hemming and hawing, so be it.
In that decision, you could, if you looked closely enough, see the first glimpse of the new new thing taking shape inside Clark's mind. Clark's faith in his new enterprise was actually faith in his own imagination, as the new enterprise was merely an extension of that imagination. The power of that faith, once again, was transforming. One moment the financiers were wondering aloud where the $40 million was going to come from. The next moment they were trying to prevent Clark from supplying the full amount and acquiring for himself an even larger stake in the troubled company. In the end the bankers and the venture capitalists agreed to let Clark give Mike Long $20 million of the $40 million he needed. They supplied the rest. And so Clark bought half the canceled I.P.O., at $6 a share.
In mid-February 1999 Healtheon went public. There was no transition between the failed I.P.O. four months earlier and this one -- no one asked how a company deemed unworthy by the stock market in the fall was now, suddenly, desirable. It just happened. Of the company's 600 employees, 300 were housed in the main office in an industrial park just north of San Jose. By 5 in the morning Pacific Standard Time on the day of the public share offering they were all at work. By 5:30 the employees had assembled in the big rec room, in front of the television set. Nigam, the band of Indians . . . they were all crammed into this one room. It smelled, faintly, of curry. The only sounds came from the television, tuned to CNBC. The ticker tape ran across the bottom of the screen. The Nasdaq opened up 64 points, or better than 2 percent. Yahoo and @Home were both up almost 10 points.
The important question was: at what price would the first trade occur? How much would people pay for shares in Healtheon? At what price would the investors who paid $8 -- the initial offering price -- willingly part with their shares? Westermann, Healtheon's C.F.O., stood beside the trader at Morgan Stanley in midtown Manhattan who was making the book on Healtheon's shares. Westermann would tell Nigam the price. Nigam would announce it to the room.
Attention shifted back and forth between the television and Nigam. For the next 30 minutes Nigam stood stoically in the front of the room with a cell phone to his ear while the employees around him tittered. Among them they controlled about 15 million shares and options out of the 69 million shares outstanding. Nigam himself owned 1.25 million shares and options. Altogether the employees owned only a bit more than Clark, who, at the time of the offering, controlled 11.5 million shares. It was a tribute to their belief in Silicon Valley's class system that they felt they had been treated generously.
There had been no roadshow this time around. Instead, Mike Long had sat down with a handful of large institutional investors that the Morgan Stanley bankers felt would lead public opinion about the company. Long had decided in his mind that he deserved some of the blame for the failure of the I.P.O. the first time around. "The story in the fall was too complex," he said. He had learned that, in a business climate that changed as rapidly as this one did, no one on the outside had time to "study the details" of the business. That was a polite way of saying that a lot of potential investors had no idea what Healtheon actually did. Healtheon, like a lot of Internet companies, was an ever-shifting abstraction. The relative merit of Long's new, simpler approach would soon be announced by the market.
At 9:30 Nigam quieted the room. His expression suddenly became more serious. Beyond serious. Pained. He looked like a man with a stomachache. The excitement of what he was about to say was nearly too much for him. "Twenty one and a half!" he shouted. The 300 people in the room went wild. The ragtag collection of engineers and engineers' helpers suddenly were worth more than $300 million. Nigam waved his hand for silence. The room went quiet.
"Twenty-four!" Nigam shouted.
More cheers.
Again, Nigam raised his hand; again, silence. "Twenty-eight!" Nigam shouted.
More cheers.
Now Nigam's hand was raised high and straight, like a Roman orator's. The room went completely silent. It was filled with people whose fortunes were rocketing; at the rate they were going they'd all be billionaires by nightfall. Rather gravely Nigam announced, "One million shares just traded at 33 and a quarter!"
This time a new sound greeted the news. Not cheering. Laughing! Healtheon's employees were turning and clapping one another on the back and laughing. Thirty-three and a quarter! The company was worth $2.3 billion. Pavan Nigam was worth $41 million. Jim Clark was worth another $375 million. When you added in his stake in AOL, which by then had bought Netscape, he was now worth $1.5 billion. Inside of two months he'd be worth more than $3 billion.
 
 IX.
Mike Long liked to say that the only way to run one of these Silicon Valley companies was to forget everything you'd learned outside of Silicon Valley. To keep the stock market interested you had to present it with an entirely new face every few months. And that's what he did. In the eight months after its I.P.O., Healtheon took steps to acquire one company and to merge with two others, including the Microsoft-backed WebMD. Healtheon's stock price ran up to 120 and back down to 30 and back up again to 50. Clark's wealth swung wildly between $2 billion and nearly $4 billion.
One evening not long after the Healtheon offering, as we sat in his kitchen, I reminded Clark that he had said that once he became a real, after-tax billionaire he'd retire. He now said, without missing a beat: "I just want to make more money than Larry Ellison. Then I'll stop."
This was news. I pointed out that he'd never before mentioned this ambition. "I just want to have more money than Larry Ellison," he said again. "I don't know why. But once I have more money than Larry Ellison I'll be satisfied." Larry Ellison, the C.E.O. of Oracle, the biggest software company in the valley, was worth about $9 billion; Clark was, just then, worth a bit more than $3 billion. On the other hand, Ellison's wealth was completely tied up in Oracle stock, which had mostly missed out on the Internet boom. At the rate Clark's wealth was growing he'd pass Ellison within six months. I pointed this out and asked the obvious question: "What happens after you have more than Larry Ellison? Would you want to have more money than, say, Bill Gates?
"Oh, no," Clark said, waving my question to the side of the room where the ridiculous ideas gather to commiserate with one another. "That'll never happen." A few minutes later, after the conversation had turned to other matters, he came clean. "You know," he said, "just for one moment, I would kind of like to have the most. Just for one tiny moment."
It was one of those tiny moments when it was good to have a record of our conversations. Just a few months earlier, when he had been worth a mere $600 million, Clark had said: "I just want to have a billion dollars, after taxes. Then I'll be satisfied." Back further, before he started Netscape, he'd told one of his colleagues at Silicon Graphics that he'd be happy with $100 million. Back even further, before he'd started Silicon Graphics, he told someone else that what he really wanted was "to have $10 million."
Why does someone perpetually create for himself the condition for his own dissatisfaction? Listening to Clark talk about how much money he needed to make was like watching the racing dog who had the wit to grab hold of the remote device that controls the mechanical rabbit. Rather than slow it down, however, he speeds it up. Clark played these little tricks on himself so that he would have an excuse, however flimsy, to keep running as fast as he could. Obviously, Clark couldn't stop using technology to change the world, and so he needed an excuse not to stop. The reasons he couldn't stop were ultimately unknowable; but I assumed that the best and most lasting motive for wanting to change the way things are is that you're unhappy with the way things are. People who are unhappy with the way things are tend to remain unhappy even after they have changed them. The nature of their unhappiness is such that change does not slake it.
The difference with Clark is that he continued to believe in the endless possibilities of change, even after he'd experienced its limitations. He was the least happy optimist there ever was. No matter how well Jim Clark did for himself it was always 2 in the morning in his heart, and he was lying awake.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Clark, second from left, and the original Healtheon team. From left: Kittu Kolluri, Clark, Stuart Liroff, Mike Long and Pavan Nigam. (Stefan Ruiz); In 1978 Clark, approaching middle age, was teaching in the Stanford computer-science department, felt he was going nowhere and resolved to start anew. Now he is worth billions and owns a 155-foot, computerized sailboat. (Trevor Ray Hart for The New York Times); Pavan Nigam, cofounder and chief technology officer of Healtheon: "The difference between a great software guy and an O.K. software guy is huge." (Stefan Ruiz for The New York Times); Nigam and Healtheon employees celebrating the day the company went public, in February, as its stock rose from an initial $8 per share to a high of $33.25. At one point during the day Nigam was worth $41 million. (Claudia Deveaux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL J LONG (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



208 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2536 words

HEADLINE: Amid Ancient Trees In the Highest Sierras

BYLINE: By MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON; MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON is a freelance writer living in Southern California.

 BODY:
SOME rare places make philosophers of even the most hardened cynics. Until I actually placed my hand on the rough but ever-so-delicate bark of a 200-foot-tall, 2,000-year-old sequoia, these majestic trees had been a brochure abstraction. To walk beneath them, as I did recently, was like being adopted by giants.
About equidistant from Los Angeles and San Francisco, the contiguous Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks stretch 66 miles north to south through the highest of the High Sierras. Aside from the groves of sequoia -- Sequoiadendron giganteum, to be specific -- the parks encompass 863,741 acres of foothills, great canyons, rushing rivers and streams, lakes and the serrated peak of Mount Whitney, at 14,495 feet the tallest mountain in the lower 48 states. Below it is the agricultural plain of the San Joaquin Valley, with its vast lemon and orange groves. 
 In the last couple of years, I've been to these parks twice. Most of the major attractions are close to the winding Generals Highway, but 80 percent of the terrain is accessible only by foot or on horseback.
On our first visit a few summers ago, my husband, Jinx, and I, along with our two daughters, then 2 and 5, set out in spontaneous, disorganized fashion; we had no reservations and we got lost getting there. So it was that we found ourselves driving, on a hammeringly hot afternoon, into the uninspiring sprawl of Fresno instead of the more picturesque town of Visalia, about 40 miles southeast. Luckily for us the parks have a northern entrance, east of Fresno, so we headed that way.
As the road climbed through the San Joaquin foothills, the air cooled and thinned. Finally we pulled into the parking lot of a place that looked like a Western roadhouse, a little souvenir store and hotel called Snowline Lodge in the Sequoia National Forest, which is wedged between the two parks and partly surrounds them.
The obliging woman behind the bar confirmed that all rooms inside the parks were booked. She had one double room, with cot, available, and we gratefully moved in. That night we sat on rustic chairs on an upstairs porch marveling at the stars and the conga line of RV's and overstuffed station wagons driving into the park (vehicles longer than 22 feet are advised to use this northern entrance).
The next day we entered Kings Canyon proper. Our first stop was the "village" of Grant Grove, which includes lodging, two restaurants, a market and a visitor center with maps, guidebooks and park exhibits.
About a mile away from the village is the General Grant Tree Trail, a paved walkway that winds for a third of a mile through some of the world's largest living trees. The General Grant Tree is said to be as tall as a 27-story building and 40 feet in diameter at its widest point.
Here, too, are the General Robert E. Lee and Lincoln trees, so named by pioneers of the late 19th century. We walked through the Fallen Monarch, a prostrate hollow sequoia whose interior, more than 100 feet long, has served as a dwelling, stable, and even a hotel and bar.
Back in the car, we decided to take the serpentine Kings Canyon Highway to Cedar Grove, another "village" in the heart of Kings Canyon. Where the highway meets the south fork of the Kings River, sheer canyon walls loom above the road, and the river rushes over rapids in spring and early summer. From here the road parallels the river to Cedar Grove; about three miles farther on it dead-ends, with access to the High Sierra wilderness beyond only on foot or on horseback.
For many, including the 19th-century naturalist John Muir, the beauty of Kings Canyon, with its soaring rock formations and glacially rounded valley, rivals that of Yosemite to the north. The village at Cedar Grove looks like the outpost it is: a telephone kiosk, a motel, a general store and a snack bar where the fanciest item is a chef's salad in a plastic clam shell. But visitors here come for the surroundings, and so we set out for the end of the road.
A couple of miles on is Knapp's Cabin, a small wooden structure built in the 1920's by a wealthy Santa Barbara businessman; it overlooks a landscape of river, evergreens and rock. Another two miles up the road is Zumwalt Meadow, a lush river-fed basin surrounded by evergreens and canyon walls. A milelong walk proceeds through ponderosa pine and incense-cedar groves, crosses several bridges, and, via a 150-foot boardwalk, traverses the meadow itself, with the rock formations of North Dome, Lion Head, and Grand Sentinel visible at various points.
We were hooked on the pristine air and quiet beauty, but it was getting late and there were still no rooms available. We reluctantly made our way to Visalia, where an Econolodge offered none of the natural splendor we had left but had air-conditioning, a swimming pool, TV and a choice of nearby restaurants. The next day we headed to Sequoia National Park via the southern entrance, just beyond the small town of Three Rivers.
Our first stop was the Foothills visitor center, where we browsed through the bookshop and exhibits. Then we drove to Hospital Rock, so called because a small cave underneath once served as a settler's recovery room. The rock itself has petroglyphs of the native Western Mono who lived here until the 1870's, and the grinding holes they used to make acorn flour.
As we drove, we caught tantalizing glimpses of the Great Western Divide and Moro Rock, a lingam-like upcropping. Finally, having climbed from 1,700 feet to over 6,400 feet, we found ourselves in the sequoias. One last turn brought us to the site of Giant Forest Village in the heart of a large sequoia grove.
Recently demolished, this cluster of brown wooden buildings, including a lodge, cabins, restaurants and shops, was the product of a time when nature was more commercialized -- a postcard popularism evidenced in some of the surrounding attractions, like the Auto Log, a fallen sequoia that serves as a photo genic parking spot, or the Tunnel Log, which you can drive through.
Park officials want everyone to know that those times have changed, though a couple of the buildings will be converted to a museum and environmental education center, scheduled for completion in 2001. A new hotel, the Wuksachi Lodge, has been constructed about six miles north. The charm of living beneath the giant sequoias was tempered by their tendency to topple over in wet conditions, their naturally shallow root systems affected over the years by traffic, as well as by the digging and cutting required to maintain the buildings' infrastructure.
A popular side trip from Giant Forest Village is a road that passes by the Auto Log, circles south to Moro Rock, then threads through Tunnel Log before arriving at a parking lot that serves Crescent Meadow and points beyond. I decided to climb the 400 steps to the top of Moro Rock at 6,725 feet, and although the stairs and railings helped, I found myself huffing and puffing halfway up. The view at the top -- the snaggle-toothed crags of the High Sierras -- is the reward for perseverance.
Crescent Meadow, however, is my fondest memory of that trip, and it was my first stop on a return visit this year. John Muir is said to have called it "the gem of the Sierras," and it is like a living emerald, glinting with wildflowers and small flitting birds.
Several trails lead from the Crescent Meadow parking lot; one, the High Sierra Trail, winds 11 miles to the backcountry tent hotel at Bearpaw Meadow, and, about 60 miles farther on, to Mount Whitney. A more modest goal is Tharp's Log, the summer cabin of the first non-native settler in the area, about a mile away. The footpath passes through widely spaced sequoias before skirting yet another lovely greensward, called Log Meadow.
At the north end of the meadow stands the little "log cabin" of Hale Tharp, who lived in it during the mid-19th-century summers he pastured his cattle in these meadows. Built in the hollow of a fallen sequoia, it's tiny but snug, with a little table and bench, a built-in bed, and a front door that still latches.
While admiring Tharp's handiwork, I was amazed to see a large black bear shambling straight toward me. When she got within 30 feet, we locked gazes for a split second, then she loped away, a pair of shaggy and still-clumsy cubs tumbling out of the undergrowth in her wake. The trail holds other wonders, like the Chimney Tree, a sequoia that still stands, with its inside completely hollowed by fire.
For a contrast to the high-and-dry experience of the sequoias, a worthwhile side trip is the wet underground tour of Crystal Cave. Outside the spider-web iron gate that bars the cave's entrance, our guide, Tom, gave a talk about the history of the cave, then led us into a world of rock spires and curtains. A small stream coursing below the cave is a reminder of the eons of water that have shaped it. In the last chamber, Tom extinguished all the lights. We stood in the pitch dark, the luminescent hands of wristwatches visible from 30 feet, the only sound the drip, drip of water.
TWO miles north of the site of the former Giant Forest Village is the turnoff for the General Sherman Tree, the largest living tree on earth in terms of volume. It's in a lovely grove; the start of a two-mile trail that leads through the House and Congress, other groups of sequoias.
Another two miles up the Generals Highway brought us to Lodgepole, a campground with visitor center, market and snack bar, next to the tumbling waters of the Marble Fork of the Kaweah River. Our children had fun in the Walter Fry Nature Center, where they felt the fur of different animals and had their photos taken as would-be rangers.
On our return visit, Jinx stayed in San Diego but his mother, Norma Moore, accompanied the girls and me. We found ourselves driving more than walking; one morning was spent negotiating the 698 scenic curves of the 25-mile road to Mineral King. The only accommodation here is in cabins like those at the hospitable Silver City Resort, where we rewarded ourselves with slices of homemade pie, or in park campgrounds surrounded by the scented woods of lodgepole pine and white and red fir.
Our main purpose in returning was to check out the new Wuksachi Lodge, which had opened three weeks before our June visit. The lodge itself is impressive, with long windows in the dining room overlooking Mount Silliman. But the overall feeling was unpleasant. The lobby was grand but not welcoming, the front desk slow to respond, and the restaurant plagued by bland food.
Also unfortunate -- and unfixable -- is the "village" design, which has as its center parking lots -- big ones, and many -- separating the lodge from the lodging, now 102 rooms in three boxy buildings, all uphill, with more to come. Our room overlooked the parking lots. The only place to get food was the lodge dining room, fairly pricey considering the quality; a tiny bar next to it provided the only note of conviviality.
More pleasant, modest and successful is the new John Muir Lodge at Grant Grove. The spacious lobby, with a big stone fireplace, had books and games and a cozy feeling. It's a 10-minute walk from the Grant Grove visitor center, on a road that bypasses a lovely meadow and rustic cottages. An adjacent road winds toward Panoramic Point, two miles away, where a short walk leads to a 7,520-foot-high overlook. The view encompasses Kings Canyon Park and Sequoia National Forest, with the Sierra Crest across the valleys and Hume Lake gleaming below.
The more of these parks I saw, the more I wanted to see, and not from the driver's seat of a rented car. Horseback riding, the high country, all the hikes described in park literature or in our handy little pocket book, "Sequoia and Kings Canyon Great Hikes," only whetted my appetite to return, for weeks, and in all seasons.
 
Seeing the giant trees up close
 
Getting There
Access to the parks by car is by Route 180 from Fresno in the north, Route 198 from Visalia in the south.
The fee is $10 per vehicle for seven days in both parks. There are no gas stations in the parks; gas is available at Hume Lake Christian Camp and at Kings Canyon Lodge, both in Sequoia National Forest to the east of Grant Grove, as well as in communities outside the park. Tickets for the Crystal Cave tour can be bought at the Lodgepole or Foothills visitor centers.
 
Places to Stay
At Wuksachi Lodge, doubles cost $75 to $105 in low season (starting Tuesday); rates are not set for next summer, but this year they were $110 to $155. There is no TV or air-conditioning. Reservations: (888) 252-5757.
In Grant Grove, the 30 rooms and suites at the year-round John Muir Lodge range from $125 for doubles to $210 for suites. There are also rustic cabins; the best bets are the nine with heat, electricity and private bath ($85 to $90).
At Cedar Grove Village, 18 second-floor motel-like double rooms are $84.50. At Stony Creek Lodge, a cozy place with 11 rooms, restaurant, market, and stone fireplace in the lobby, doubles are $96.50; at the Snowline Lodge, where we stayed, $85 a night. Rates at all three are the same throughout the season, May through October. Reservations for all except Wuksachi Lodge can be made at (559) 335-5500, fax (559) 335-2498.
In Mineral King, the Silver City Mountain Resort has three chalet-type buildings (four next year) with full bathroom and hot shower, sleeping up to eight, for $200 a day (going up to $275 next year), and nine rustic cabins, sleeping two to six, $70 to $130 (going up to $80 to $160); some have indoor toilets, but showers are in separate buildings. Open from mid June through October. Reservations: summer (559) 561-3223; winter (805) 528-2730; fax (805) 528-8039.
 
Places to Eat
The menu at the Stony Creek Lodge is now family style; the back part of the restaurant in Grant Grove has been converted to the upscale Meadowview Room, with such entrees as grilled duck breast with red cabbage and sun-dried berries. Dinner for two with wine, $70.
In Three Rivers, the Gateway Restaurant, 45978 Sierra Drive, (559) 561-4133, serves good American food on a veranda and in three rooms overlooking the river. At lunch, a burger is $6, a steak $15; at dinner, entrees range from $10 for eggplant parmesan up to $32 for steak and lobster. A beer costs $3; a glass of wine, $4. Lunch and dinner daily (closed Tuesdays in winter).
In Visalia, we had a delicious dinner in The Depot restaurant, 207 East Oak Street, (559) 732-8611, in Visalia's original train depot, built in 1897. The Continental menu includes steak, shrimp and chicken. A three-course dinner for two with a bottle of wine, $65. Lunch and dinner Monday through Saturday.
Little Italy, 303 West Main Street, Visalia, (559) 734-2906, is an authentic Italian restaurant with tasty pastas and antipasti. Dinner for two with wine, about $65. Lunch Monday to Friday; dinner Monday to Saturday.
El Tarasco, 2636 South Mooney Boulevard, Visalia, (559) 732-8226, serves good Mexican seafood in an uninspiring four-lane location; dinner for two with margaritas, about $60. Lunch and dinner daily.
 MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Sequoia National Park: Moro Rock, at 6,725 feet. Hikers dwarfed by one of the trees, which can reach 300 feet. (Photographs by Robert Holmes)(pg. 10); A father and son fishing in the Kings River. (Frank S. Balthis)(pg. 24)
 
Map of California showing the locations of Kings Canyon and Sequoia National Parks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES KINGS (93%); LOS ANGELES KINGS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES KINGS (93%); LOS ANGELES KINGS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KINGS CANYON NATIONAL PARK (CALIF); SEQUOIA NATIONAL PARK (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); FRESNO, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; SEQUOIA TREES; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS NATIONAL PARKS (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RESTAURANTS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); RIVERS (54%); 

PERSON: OLSON, MARTHA STEVENSON

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



209 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 19; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

Holidays in London
Q. My family and I have the chance to be in London Dec. 24 to 30. Can you tell us traditional places for Christmas dinner and Boxing Day? Will any sights be open these days? -- S. C., Bethlehem, Pa.
A. Both Christmas Day and the following day, Boxing Day, are public holidays in England, as are Dec. 27 and 28, New Year's Eve and, since New Year's Day falls on a Saturday this time, Jan. 3, 2000, as well. Businesses, banks and most attractions will be closed, so you should consider packages at hotels that offer holiday entertainment as well as a room. Also, remember that public transportation will run on a limited schedule. Taxis apply surcharges from 10 P.M. on Dec. 24 until 6 A.M. Dec. 27. 
 There will be some London attractions open on Boxing Day, which traces its origins to the traditional post-Christmas day off for servants, who received their gift boxes that day. Among those that will be open are the London Aquarium at Westminster Bridge, the London Zoo in Regent's Park, Madame Tussaud's on Marylebone Road, Kenwood House on Hampstead Lane and St. Paul's Cathedral, Ludgate Hill.
You can enjoy holiday illuminations on Oxford Street and the Christmas tree at Trafalgar Square. For a more complete listing of events, call the British Tourist Authority at (800) 462-2748 after Oct. 31 for the December issue of The London Planner, a free entertainment guide.
Most hotels and country inns that offer Christmas packages present Edwardian- or Victorian-style celebrations, with turkey or goose, plum pudding and mince pies. Typically, these begin with tea or a reception Christmas Eve and end with brunch or lunch Dec. 27. For a selection of such packages, you can start with Jewels of Britain, a British Tourist Authority publication. The list can be found at www.jewelsofbritain.com.
If your hotel does not offer Christmas dinner, there should be some restaurants open Dec. 25, but not many.
If you want a guided tour on Christmas Day, you can try Frames Rickards, (800) 683-0799, or Golden Tours, (800) 456-6303.
And you can give yourself a gift at the winter sales that begin at most large London stores on Dec. 28.
 
Hungry for Emeril
Q. I am taking my daughter to New York for her 50th birthday in November 2000. I would love to get tickets to "Emeril Live" on the Food Network. How would I get them? -- Marian O'Brien, Arlington Heights, Ill.
A. Emeril Lagasse, the New Orleans chef who is one of the stars of the cooking-show circuit, tapes his show at studios in New York and Chicago. He does three shows a day, Monday through Friday, for six or seven weeks a year.
About 100 people can be accommodated in the audience for each show, which takes about an hour to tape; tapings generally are at noon, 3 and 6 P.M. The tickets are free and are distributed by a lottery, with entries accepted during one or two entry periods each year. Lisa Fugeira, a Food Network spokeswoman, says that tickets are very hard to get.
You can enter the lottery by calling (212) 398-8836 or on the Web at www.foodtv.com (Ms. Fugeira suggests that you have a better chance on the Web). The lottery for all 1999 shows is closed.
 
Seeing 'The Last Supper'
Q. I wish to see Leonardo da Vinci's "Last Supper" in the Church of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. Can I reserve tickets in the United States? -- Jan B. Kubik, Princeton, N.J.
A. You can call (39-02) 8942-1146 Monday to Saturday from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Milan time to reserve tickets for a particular day and time; expect a long wait to get through.
Usually, bookings can be made starting about two months ahead of the date you seek. The tickets are much in demand, so be flexible and call early. If the ticket office can accommodate your request, you will be given a reservation number. You must appear at the ticket window outside the church at least 30 minutes ahead of your reserved time to pay. The cost is $7.60 (at 1,848 lire to $1) -- $6.50 for the ticket and the rest as a booking fee.
And remember: you cannot view "The Last Supper" on Monday.
 
Thanksgiving Parade
Q. I have always wanted to see the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in person. Do you know of any hotels with good vantage points for the parade that are offering packages for the weekend? -- J. T., Ithaca, N.Y.
A. Trying to find a hotel room that overlooks the parade is tricky. First of all, Manhattan hotels book up rapidly for that weekend. The parade begins at 9 A.M. on Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 25, so you'd need to book a room on the night of Nov. 24. But many of the hotels along the parade route reported being sold out for that night as of early last week. And most of the ones that did have rooms available would not guarantee that the room would face the parade route.
The marchers and balloons start at 77th Street and Central Park West and head south on Central Park West to Columbus Circle. From there, they go south on Broadway to Herald Square and west on 34th Street, ending at Seventh Avenue.
One hotel did have rooms left and was willing to offer a guarantee of a parade view. The Millennium Broadway, just off Broadway on West 44th, (212) 768-4400, had double rooms for $199, with breakfast, plus $100 extra to guarantee a parade view.
The Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza, (212) 977-4000, does offer a Thanksgiving Day brunch at Samplings, a restaurant and bar that is above street level overlooking Broadway. It costs $101 a person, $54 for children under 12, and although it was fully booked as of early last week, there may be cancellations, or you may want to keep it in mind for next Thanksgiving.
Tim Ray, director of publicity for Macy's, says that viewers start lining the sidewalks at about 6 A.M. He suggests a spot north of Columbus Circle, along Central Park West, where there will be some sunlight to ward off the November chill and less wind than in the concrete canyons farther south.
Mr. Ray adds that the public is invited to Inflation Eve. On the night before the parade, the famous large floating balloons are inflated on West 77th and West 81st Streets between Central Park West and Columbus Avenue, from 6 to 11 P.M. There's no charge to watch, and it usually turns into a big impromptu street party.
 JOSEPH SIANO 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FOOD NETWORK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CHRISTMAS (92%); BOXING DAY (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); 

PERSON: EMERIL LAGASSE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



210 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 27; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Sleep in a Box

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FINKEL; MICHAEL FINKEL's book "Alpine Circus," about his mountain adventures, is being published this month by Lyons Press.

 BODY:
INSIDE my capsule, lying diagonally, head against one wall, feet on another, I thought of home. I live in Montana. It is a state rich with open, unpeopled spaces; a place where you can sometimes drive the back roads for hours without seeing another vehicle.
I am the type of person who revels in such solitude. When I leave Montana, it is typically to places even farther afield: wilderness areas, mountain ranges, the back country of national parks. 
 Last fall, however, I went to Tokyo. Being neither misanthropic nor cityphobic, I thought it might prove interesting to disrupt my usual pattern and spend some time amid the floodwaters of humanity.
Japan felt like the proper place to go. The nation's 125 million people live on an archipelago that could be tucked into the Dakotas.
Though the per capita gross national product and the average life expectancy in Japan is about equal to that of the United States, Japan's population density is nearly 10 times higher. The Japanese are experts in the art of conjuring elbow room. I figured the situation in Tokyo might offer a clue as to how well -- or how poorly -- we might all live one day.
Capsule hotels, which rent essentially coffin-sized chambers, inexpensively, overnight, seemed to me the epitome of this quest to shoehorn an ever-growing number of people into a fixed amount of land. These hotels, which I'd read about in a guidebook, are used primarily by young professional men, many of whom like to stay up late, drinking sake and gambling on a pinball-like game called pachinko, and are unable to catch the last trains out to the suburbs. There are dozens of such hotels throughout Japan, most clustered near major train stations. They seemed a coldly ingenious and impressively efficient use of a limited amount of square footage. I could not resist the temptation to spend a night in one.
Late on the first Friday evening of my trip, after a requisite binge of sake and pachinko (sparking a headache from the former, disburdening my wallet at the latter), I made my way to the Shinjuku train station, the Grand Central of Tokyo, to look for a capsule hotel.
Shinjuku is Tokyo's lowbrow entertainment district. Beer vending machines are posted at every intersection, giant video screens trumpet an unceasing string of advertisements, and massage-parlor hostesses hint at unorthodox rubdowns. The streets were mobbed. Not a person seemed sober. Yet, as with all of Japan that I've seen, Shinjuku was also safe and spotless.
I did not find a capsule hotel. Rather, the hotel found me. I was battling my way down a Shinjuku side street when, abruptly, I found myself in the midst of a herd of men wandering about in baby-blue robes and plastic slippers. They were entering and exiting, ant-hill style, from a set of glass doors, most of them, it appeared, embarking on a brief evening constitutional to sober themselves up a bit before bed. I asked if this were a capsule hotel (fortunately, "capsule hotel" is pronounced "kapseru hoteru" in Japanese). I was told it was.
The first floor of the five-story building housed a pachinko parlor; the second, a night club. At the third floor, the elevator opened onto the reception area for the Shinjuku-ku Capsule Hotel. A middle-aged man was stationed at a desk in front of a block of cubbies that contained sets of footwear, primarily wingtips. I made it clear that I wanted to sleep at the hotel. The man indicated that it would cost 4,000 yen -- about $35. I handed over the money.
Then the front-desk attendant said something I did not understand. He repeated it two or three times, until finally a person behind me on line, who introduced himself as Mr. Wu, a visitor from China, translated for me. "He says you have to strip," said Mr. Wu, who was fluent in English, Japanese and Mandarin.
This hotel, he added, is exclusively for men; there are others with women-only areas.
And so there, at the front desk, I removed my clothing until I was down to my briefs. Whereupon I was handed a light-blue robe, a pair of white slippers and a mustard-colored towel. Most people arrive at the capsule wearing a business suit; the undressing policy, Mr. Wu explained, forces a degree of casualness and relaxation, and at the same time, maintains a sense of sartorial similarity (the Japanese are into uniforms).
I handed my shoes to the receptionist, who put them in a cubby and gave me a key (No. 6181), which was attached to a velcro wrist band. My shoes, said Mr. Wu, who had now assumed unofficial guide duties, would serve as a key deposit. The key was for my locker, where I hung my clothing.
Mr. Wu, a frequent capsule denizen, proceeded to give me a tour. The hotel covers three floors. There is a bath house and cafeteria, both open all night. And then there are the capsule areas.
They look like crypts, except for the presence of bathrooms. The capsules are about six feet long, three feet wide, three feet high, and made of molded plastic, cream-colored on the inside with aqua trim. They are stacked two high in long rows, and are entered on one end, like a cave. Those that were occupied had a rattan blind covering the opening.
There were 800 capsules in the hotel, most of which were full. As far as I could tell, I was the only Westerner, though nobody seemed particularly shocked to see me.
I bathed with my fellow capsulemates in the communal pool, nude, packed in like commuters. The result of living in a crowded nation, it occurred to me, is a type of forced, locker-room-style familiarity with everyone in the vicinity. After washing, I joined a chorus of teeth-cleaners, using a free toothbrush from the bathroom dispenser, then headed to the appropriate crypt.
I climbed the three-step ladder to my second-tier cubicle, spelunked my way in and pulled down the blind. It's a good thing I don't suffer from claustrophobia. There was no room even to sit up. A mattress of unfortunate firmness covered the entire floor space.
A small television was mounted on the ceiling of the capsule; two of the three channels were dedicated to pornographic offerings. There was also a radio, an alarm clock, a reading light (with dimmer switch), a mirror, a corner shelf, and an airplane-style air nozzle. The capsule seemed clean to the point of sterilization. Though I am not particularly tall, I had to wedge myself slantwise in order to stretch out.
It was then that I wondered about home. If American cities ever elected to install capsule hotels, I am sure that bathing would occur in private rooms, and that undressing at the front desk would not be encouraged. Most Americans, even city dwellers, demand a significant amount of space and privacy. It is part of our national psyche. This can have its disadvantages. In Montana, the activities of one's neighbors are often left to the imagination.
Wide-open spaces also can, and often do, engender distrust. At the capsule hotel, the almost absurd closeness necessitated a relationship of sorts with the other guests. We at least had to acknowledge each other's presence and develop a degree of trust -- none of the capsules had locks.
On the other hand, space has its attendant conveniences. The rattan curtains that served as the capsules' doors, I soon discovered, were not much of a noise buffer. The various grunts and snores and nighttime murmurs of a few hundred of my fellow campers filtered through my cubicle. Sleep did not come easily.
And then, just as I'd begun to dream, the first alarm went off, somewhere down the hallway. It was an ear-shattering, air-raid siren of a noise that bolted me upright, causing me to knock my head on the capsule's ceiling. It was 5 o'clock in the morning. No sooner had I realized what had happened and settled back under my sheet than another alarm sounded. And another. And then another -- every few minutes until I could stand it no longer.
I slithered out of my capsule, changed into my clothes in the locker room, exchanged my key for my shoes, and took the elevator back down to the swarming streets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Weber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONTANA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); WILDERNESS (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); POPULATION SIZE (57%); MOUNTAINS (56%); 

PERSON: FINKEL, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



211 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Live From Radio City!

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
After closing for a restoration that left it dark for seven months and cost $70 million -- twice the original estimate -- Radio City Music Hall was scheduled to reopen last Monday in a blaze of lights befitting one of New York City's most enduring show-business icons.
The doubling in restoration costs demonstrated not only the perils of sophisticated restoration work in Manhattan but also the determination of its owner, Cablevision Systems Corporation, to have the new hall ready in time for the Nov. 4 opening of its venerable Radio City Christmas Spectacular, the first major event in the renovated hall that is open to the public. 
 The Music Hall is not only a monument to Art Deco splendor but also a magnet for tourism: Cablevision has estimated that it will attract 2 million visitors and contribute more than $300 million to the city's economy each year.
The restoration, the most ambitious since the hall opened in 1932 as a vaudeville and movie house, was headed by the architect Hugh Hardy, of Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates. It employed 2,000 workers, who burnished ceilings with 720,000 sheets of gold and aluminum leaf, hung a new 112-foot-wide shimmery gold-silk curtain and installed 5,901 new plush salmon-pink seats.
Furniture, walls, carpets, lighting fixtures and appointments have been cleaned, repaired or remade. And the three-story "Fountain of Youth" mural by Ezra Winter, which looms above the grand staircase, was cleaned of decades of grime and varnish.
For local merchants, the reopening was a joyous occasion. "It's been a long seven months, when Rockefeller Center looked like a deserted area," said David Liederman, owner of Chez Louis, the restaurant across the street on West 50th Street.
Tickets for the Christmas Spectacular cost $29 to $97; call (212) 307-1000.
 GLENN COLLINS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The renovated main stage at Radio City Music Hall. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (83%); HARDY HOLZMAN PFEIFFER ASSOCIATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO CITY MUSIC HALL (NYC); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



212 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2977 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
When the Commercial Theater Moves In on Nonprofits

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
"MARTIN GUERRE," the British musical that has returned more often than, well, Martin Guerre, finally had its American premiere here on Sept. 29. It was the fourth opening for the show, counting its first one in London's West End in 1996, and a climactic night for Alain Boublil and Claude-Michel Schonberg, who first brought the idea to the producer Cameron Mackintosh a full seven years ago.
"It's been as long as it took Martin Guerre to go to war and come back," said Mr. Schonberg, who wrote the score. The show -- based on the often-told true story of the 16th-century Frenchman who, left for dead on the battlefield, returns home to find his identity has been assumed by his friend and fellow soldier -- has been streamlined, reordered and rewritten by its persistent creators. Forty percent of the current material was not in the original, Mr. Mackintosh said. 
 "That's it," said Mr. Boublil, co-writer of the book and lyrics. "That's the show they get." The creators sounded relieved, but in the theater world "Martin Guerre" has been perceived as something of an obsession for its legendary producer. Mr. Mackintosh, who, as the man behind the musicals "Cats," "The Phantom of the Opera," "Les Miserables" and "Miss Saigon" (the last two written by Mr. Boublil and Mr. Schonberg), is perhaps the world's most successful theater producer. "Martin Guerre" has yet to garner the same acclaim; it was revised and re-opened in mid-run in London, then revamped and re-opened at the Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds.
That version, the first to be praised by critics, is the one Mr. Mackintosh has brought here to the venerable Guthrie Theater, one of the nation's leading nonprofit houses, where the opening of "Martin Guerre" is a striking anomaly. Even though the show has been trimmed down considerably, this is a theater that has historically focused on classic drama on its thrust stage. With "Martin Guerre," the Guthrie has joined the lengthening list of nonprofit regional theaters to collaborate on expensive productions with commercial producers. Never in its 36-year history has the theater given its subscribers a show with the glamour and extravagance of this one.
"What's really blowing our audiences away," said David Hawkanson, the Guthrie's managing director, "is that it's like having a 100-piece orchestra in your den."
But does a 100-piece orchestra belong in your den? Indeed, the arrival of "Martin Guerre" has further obscured the increasingly murky distinction between nonprofit and commercial theater enterprises and stirs, with particular vigor, the debate over whether collaborations between the two entities are appropriate or even desirable.
The show is headed for Broadway in the spring, though it does not yet have a theater, which is one reason the top officers of the Shubert Organization and Jujamcyn Theaters, leading theater owners in New York, made the trip out here for opening night. It will be the second musical Mr. Mackintosh brings to Broadway this season: the Stephen Sondheim revue, "Putting It Together," which he has been nurturing since 1991, is to open next month at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, starring Carol Burnett, in an incarnation that was developed in collaboration with the Mark Taper Forum, the nonprofit house in Los Angeles.
"Over here, this seems to be my year for nonprofit theater," said Mr. Mackintosh, still chubbily boyish at 52, explaining that the simultaneous arrival of the two shows is only a coincidence, and that his partnerships with nonprofits are nothing unusual for him; he has been working with state-subsidized theaters in England for more than two decades.
Asked why he has clung so tenaciously to "Martin Guerre," he responded with only a hint of exasperation. "My tenacity with this show is no different than my tenacity with any show," he said. "I'll keep going until I feel there's no more to be done. It's just that 'Martin Guerre' had to be developed in the public eye. The fact of the matter was the show I put on in London wasn't finished. It was still a work in progress, and at every stage it has gotten better. People forget that 'The Music Man' took 12 years to get together. 'Guys and Dolls' had 10 or 12 different librettos."
Though economy-size by comparison to "Ragtime" and "The Lion King," Broadway's current eight-figure extravaganzas, and even by Mr. Mackintosh's own long-running hits, "Martin Guerre," with a cast of 24 and a set designed by John Napier (who landed the helicopter onstage in "Miss Saigon"), cost $2.1 million to stage here. That is about two and a half times the budget of an average Guthrie show. Mr. Mackintosh paid for just over half.
"Martin Guerre," with Hugh Panaro in the title role, received a mostly positive review in The Minneapolis Star-Tribune ("Though the musical will engage the intellect only slightly, it speaks loudly, earnestly and passionately to the heart") and a more skeptical one in Variety. But in any case, ticket sales have been brisk for its seven-week run at the Guthrie, where the excitement of a Broadway-style production has seemingly justified the financial risk.
AND so, the argument goes, collaborations such as this one work to the benefit of both partners. The economics of mounting a musical for Broadway are so forbidding that for a commercial producer, trying out a show in a nonprofit house where costs are more modest is a way of preparing it for the make or break scrutiny of critics in New York and audiences who will judge it with their wallets.
"That seems to be the only way to go," said Hal Luftig, a producer working on a musical version of the film "Thoroughly Modern Millie." "We're going to try and do what Cameron is doing, start it in a regional house."
At the same time, the resources a commercial producer can provide for a nonprofit enable the theater to put on a more elaborate production, giving its local audience a taste of opulent show business that the theater could otherwise not afford. And bigger, it need be said, does sometimes mean better.
In addition, the participating theater generally shares in profits gleaned by the show after it moves on, a powerful inducement for institutions that are perennially scratching for funds. In the last decade or so, the new musicals "Big River" and "The Who's Tommy" and the revival of "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" all had successful premieres at the La Jolla Playhouse in California, partly financed by commercial producers, before their turns on Broadway. The new musical "Jane Eyre" recently completed its run there, selling out 62 performances, and its producers are currently seeking additional financing -- and a theater -- to open it in New York.
On the other hand, such collaborations strike many as antithetical -- or at least threatening -- to the very nature of regional nonprofit theater, a movement that took hold nationally in the 1950's and 1960's largely as a revolt against the commercially driven enterprise that American theater art, as exemplified by Broadway, had become. (The Guthrie, founded by the director Tyrone Guthrie in 1963, was among the movement's seminal institutions.)
These days, few in the theater object to collaborations on principle (current economics make it difficult to support such rigid church-and-state separation), but the issue remains one of control. When a commercial producer with an eye on profit-making contributes to a production in a nonprofit house, who is making the artistic decisions? Whose interests are a priority? The theater, which is devoted to its local audience and which has a history and an artistic vision to uphold? Or the commercial producer, whose main concern is generating momentum for a long run elsewhere?
"The minute you get somebody else calling the shots about how the work evolves, somebody with an eye on the brass ring, you've molested the enterprise," said Zelda Fichandler, the founding director of Arena Stage in Washington and its artistic director from 1950 to 1991.
Control is always a difficult proposition to sort out, made more complicated recently as commercial partners have escalated their financial involvement. Five years ago, Lincoln Center Theater put on a revival of "Carousel" with Mr. Mackintosh; last year it staged the new musical "Parade," with Livent, the Canadian company then being run by Garth Drabinsky, Mr. Mackintosh's equal in showmanship if not financial acumen. (Livent went bankrupt just before the opening of "Parade," embroiling Mr. Drabinsky in allegations of fiscal misdeeds. "Carousel" was originally at the Royal National Theater in London, a nonprofit theater; Mr. Mackintosh maintained the commercial rights.)
Both shows were produced at Lincoln Center for about $5 million apiece, and the collaborators split the costs. Contractually, in both cases, said Bernard Gersten, the theater's executive producer, "we were in control of the production." But in both cases, the directors (Nicholas Hytner and Harold Prince, respectively) were chosen and the productions designed and developed by the commercial partner. None of those involved are known as shrinking violets.
"Who's in control on paper is clear and who's in control in fact is not so clear," Mr. Gersten said. "That's when the 400-pound gorillas come into play."
LAST year, when the Disney company opened its new musical, "Elaborate Lives: The Legend of Aida," at the Alliance Theater Company in Atlanta, Alliance's artistic director, Kenny Leon, in two separate interviews with The New York Times, said, first, that he had no influence over the production, and then that he did. Whatever the actual case, the initial production was a critical failure but, for Alliance, a financial success, and it maintains a share of the show, which, in a revised incarnation (it is now called simply "Aida"), is scheduled to open at a commercial theater in Chicago in December, before moving to Broadway in February.
For years, commercial theater and nonprofit theater existed in entirely separate orbits. That began to change in 1967, when Arena Stage in Washington put on "The Great White Hope" and the producer Herman Levin bought the rights from the playwright Howard Sackler and moved the production -- its stars James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander included -- to Broadway the following year. "It changed the American theater because it changed the flow of material," said Ms. Fichandler, who now heads the graduate acting department at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. "Up until that time," she said of regional theaters, "we were little outposts."
Indeed, Ms. Fichandler said, it was such a new and startling development that she neglected to maintain any rights to the show, the largest the Arena had ever put on up to that point. As a result, Arena lost money on its own production and received nothing from the show's long run on Broadway. In retrospect, she said, she was terribly naive. "My focus was so on the thing itself that I hadn't attended to the theater properly," she said.
Shortly after the move of "The Great White Hope," the New York Shakespeare Festival accepted $50,000 from the producer Michael Butler and moved its production of "Hair" to a disco near Times Square; Mr. Butler subsequently moved the show to Broadway. In 1971, the Shakespeare Festival entered the commercial arena on its own, moving its musical version of "Two Gentlemen of Verona" from Central Park to the St. James Theater on Broadway. Most famously, the festival produced "A Chorus Line," whose 15-year Broadway run, ending in 1990, poured a nearly $39 million bounty into the theater's coffers, supporting less commercially viable works on its downtown stages for years and providing a pot-of-gold model for nonprofit theaters across the country.
A recent example, "The Civil War," the Frank Wildhorn musical that flopped on Broadway last season, was developed by the Alley Theater in Houston (with financial help from Pace Theatricals, the tour-organizing company). Productions of the show in New York and on the road were already part of the plan during development.
In the last two decades, several varieties of theatrical partnerships have evolved; commercial producers keep close tabs on work being developed in regional theaters (as they do on shows in London), with an eye toward moving them. In recent years, such Tony-winning plays as "Angels in America," "The Kentucky Cycle" and "Death of a Salesman" were developed in one or more regional theaters before producers attempted to mount them commercially.
"That's the most rewarding way, and the most creative," said Gordon Davidson, the artistic director of the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, which helped develop "Angels in America" and "The Kentucky Cycle."
But that has rarely happened with musicals because they are often too expensive for regional theaters to develop on their own. Musicals have also grown too expensive for commercial producers to finance alone; the old system of getting a show on its feet in Boston or New Haven in a pre-Broadway run has almost entirely disappeared. Instead, the most common strategy today makes use of what is known as "enhancement money"; that is, a commercial producer helps finance a musical in a regional house in exchange for the rights to produce it when the local run is complete.
The amount of influence exerted by the commercial partner over the theater's production is, at that point, up for grabs. Or, put more kindly, a matter for the partnership to work out. "It's not the dollar amount of the enhancement that determines the policies behind doing these productions," said Terrence Dwyer, the managing director of the La Jolla Playhouse, who said the enhancement money the theater had received ranged between $400,000 and $1 million, but was never more than half of a show's total cost. "Whether it's $50 or $2 million is irrelevant. The key thing is, are not-for-profits doing these things for the right reasons? Do they serve your audience and your mission? And do you maintain the character and the integrity of the institution during the process?"
IN the case of "Martin Guerre," both Mr. Mackintosh and the theater's artistic director, Joe Dowling, say the show and the theater are a good match. The Guthrie, which has an auditorium seating 1,300 and about 30,000 subscribers, is on the verge of a capital campaign for a new building that would house three different auditoriums and allow the theater to expand its mandate by developing new works and engaging more frequently in co-productions.
"We've been expanding our programming the last two or three years," said Mr. Dowling, the former head of the Abbey Theater in Dublin who took over in 1996 from the Guthrie's previous artistic director Garland Wright, who died last year. "I've been accused of being populist, and I say, 'Guilty as charged.' But no one's going to tell me that Cameron lacks esthetic values, and the notion that we're selling out to commerce is a faulty one. If Boublil and Schonberg had offered me their new musical, would I have taken it? Of course. Could we have afforded it on our own? No."
But that's not the entire story. At the show's last major opening in England, at the Yorkshire Playhouse, a nonprofit theater in Leeds ("If there's a British equivalent to the Guthrie, that's it," Mr. Dowling said), critics admired it as a triumphant turnaround from the show that many had judged bloated and confusing in London. Trimmed down, rewritten, its story clarified and songs replaced, it had also been completely restaged by two young Irishmen, Conall Morrison, the director, and David Bolger, the choreographer. Mr. Dowling had worked with Mr. Morrison in Dublin. "When I heard Cameron was going to do another 'Martin Guerre' with those two guys, I was very excited," Mr. Dowling said. "I immediately called him."
Mr. Mackintosh said he was attracted to the Guthrie because of its resemblance to the theater in Leeds and because he felt the Minneapolis audience would be appreciative; the Guthrie, after all, he said, attracts theatergoers from hundreds of miles around. And though staging the show in a nonprofit house keeps costs down (by union contract, actors are paid less in nonprofit houses than in commercial ones), it isn't exactly a money-saving venture for him. Before Broadway, the show will be moving from Minneapolis to engagements in Detroit, Washington, Seattle and Los Angeles, and it will have to be restaged, at a cost of some $2 million, Mr. Mackintosh estimated, for the proscenium houses there.
"Joe really wanted to do this," Mr. Mackintosh said. "Even before he saw it. He smelled it would be good for his theater. It's a cousin of 'The Crucible,' a cousin of Shakespeare. And it has the added bonus of a really terrific score. Why shouldn't it be on a stage like this?"
The most complicated hardware for the set -- which includes a steel wall resembling wood that seems, at one point, to be consumed by fire -- and the Broadway-style lighting and sound machinery were brought over from England. The Guthrie made the costumes and the props and participated in casting.
"There have been some tensions," Mr. Dowling said, "in terms of what we can afford. Their natural instinct is to add people and ours is to cut them. They think of the long-term life of the work and we're focused on the next seven weeks. There's a difference in culture there. But there's been no difference in how we approach the work."
Besides, Mr. Mackintosh added, the issue over whether such collaborations are appropriate is an artificial and particularly American one. "I just think there's so little good material out there anyway," he said, "that the best people, in whatever sphere, have to get together to put on a show in the best possible circumstances."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen R. Buntrock and Erin Dilly in the American premiere of Cameron Mackintosh's musical "Martin Guerre" at the Guthrie Theater. (Michal Daniel/Guthrie Theater)(pg. 1); Play It Again, Cam: Awaiting the fourth opening of the musical "Martin Guerre" are the producer Cameron Mackintosh, left; the director, Conall Morrison, and Joe Dowling, the artistic director of the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, where the show had its American premiere on Sept. 29. (Michal Daniel for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Erin Dilly, center, as the wife of the title character in "Martin Guerre." (Michal Daniel/Guthrie Theater)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARTIN GUERRE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (53%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: GUTHRIE THEATER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); MINNESOTA, USA (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (85%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); WRITERS (75%); 

PERSON: BOUBLIL, ALAIN; SCHONBERG, CLAUDE-MICHEL; MACINTOSH, CAMERON; WEBER, BRUCE CAMERON MACKINTOSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



213 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: The Arts Come Alive In School Programs

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON

 BODY:
WHEN parents attend open house at the beginning of the school year at Hillside Elementary School, not all of them ask questions about the math curriculum or the language arts program. Instead, they seem more interested in which opera students in the second grade will be seeing, since a trip to a professional opera performance has become a tradition, said Linda Azif, a second-grade teacher here. The parents also fight over which parents will be asked to chaperone the trip.
Marilyn Wishnie, principal of Hillside, said: "Our district emphasizes the arts. We reflect the community's values. Arts education is a tradition here. We think arts are so much a part of life. How do you not permeate it throughout the curriculum? It's almost like cutting off your hand. How do you not do it?" 
 Such passion about the arts in Hastings, which is home to many actors, singers, musicians, dancers and writers, goes a long way toward explaining why Hillside not only received a Blue Ribbon school of excellence award from the United States Department of Education last spring but was also one of only two elementary schools in the United States cited for special recognition in arts education. The other is Mills Lawn Elementary School in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Both schools will receive their commendations at a ceremony Oct. 28 in Washington.
What impressed the Department of Education's panel, which also included members of the National Endowment for the Arts, was the total arts immersion available at Hillside. "Ninety of the schools that earned a Blue Ribbon applied for the arts commendation," Steve O'Brien, a team leader for the Federal Department of Education, said. "We were looking for a school that had to meet all the criteria: dance, music, fine arts and performance. We were looking for a total program. The idea is that the arts program had to be practically perfect, and a model for other schools. Arts are part of the national core curriculum."
Doug Herbert, director of arts education for the National Endowment for the Arts in Washington, said of the Hillside program: "They have a clear commitment to teaching and learning in all of the arts."
Hillside's hallways could pass for a downtown art gallery, with artwork ranging from third graders' self-portraits or black-and-white studies in positive and negative imagery to kindergartners' interpretations of jazz music through Matisse-influenced cut-out art projects. In a third-grade art class, under the guidance of the teacher, Susan Larson, students studied black-and-white images of the gardens at Versailles so they could work on comparable designs in shades of gray and white.
Barbara Levine, a Hillside art teacher, said: "We have the philosophy that art is a natural, creative expression. Young kids do it on their own. They get inhibited later on. The idea with art is that they have to make decisions. It's creative problem solving and using critical thinking skills. However they do it, when we assess them, we want to know, 'Did you solve the problem?' and 'Did you learn anything in the process?' "
The visual arts program is not the only expression of arts education. In music classes, students regularly perform on a variety of instruments and discuss compositions, while the fourth grade performs a musical each year. Mark Ruhala, a Hastings dancer, teacher and choreographer, is a visiting artist each year, working with kindergartners. Artistic activities are seamlessly woven into other aspects of the curriculum.
Emily Meltzer, 9, a fourth grader at Hillside, composed the following poem as part of an autobiographical project, which also included an abstract art piece:
Energetic
Musician
Ice cream Eater
Limited Too Shopper
Yankees fan
Arts education has evolved considerably in the last several years, in part because of new Regents standards and in part because of consideration of the role the arts must play in a student's life. "The Regents recognize the emerging prominence of the arts in the economy and in the vocational field," Bill Hirschen, a spokesman for the state's Department of Education, said.
Jennifer Woodruff, assistant principal at Hillside, said, "We teach the children how to do something, like how to pinch clay so the handles won't fall off the pots they make." Mrs. Wishnie, the principal, added: "In a music class, the idea would be to explain to them how to listen to music. It's not a talent-based system, but a skills-based system."
The arts, which encompass theater, dance and movement and even poetry -- as well as art and music -- are rarely seen as frills. Instead, arts classes are seen as an extension of the curriculum, with projects aimed at offering skills and critical thinking experiences for all students regardless of talent.
Nor is Hastings alone in its pursuit of arts education.
In Lee F. Jackson school in the Greenburgh Central Seven School District, which serves kindergarteners and first graders, the students are taking part in a special 10-week arts education program this semester. First graders are working with a storyteller-singer using movement and music to explore multicultural stories, and then will be working with a visual artist to produce shadow puppets. The kindergarteners are spending time with the visual artist with textures, patterns and colors that relate to animal stories and science.
Sarah Schneider, director of cultural arts for the Ossining school district, said: "The standards that are driving curriculum development are saying that the arts are a basic, integral part of a student's education. It's not just listening to a piece of music and saying, 'I like it' -- they have to explain why they like it."
The revised state standards include a progressive exposure to and experience with art creation and performance, knowing how to use materials and resources in respective disciplines and ultimately responding to and analyzing a work of art, whether it is a piece of sculpture, a dramatic monologue or a symphony.
Dr. Frances Wills, Superintendent of the Briarcliff Union Free School District, said: "Arts are a highly significant part of a child's education. You don't have to be a great artist. You can be insightful and learn how to think about art."
In Briarcliff, 54 percent of the fourth and fifth graders learn to play a string instrument, and 83 percent of the students in those grades takes part in some form of musical instrument performance. At the high school level, where the school offers an advanced placement art course, 62 percent of the students are involved in an art program, with 32 percent taking part in some form of music.
Other aspects of arts education here include donations from the Briarcliff Manor Education Foundation, like grants to a high school art anthology and elementary school art and literary magazine, body microphones for performers at Todd Elementary School and a music keyboard and laser printer for the middle and high school music department. The middle and high school also have a new 500-seat auditorium. Fourth graders at Todd set up a museum in the classroom, reflecting their study of a particular era in art history.
In Ossining, a districtwide focus on the arts has been translated into a six-year initiative, begun this year, which provides classes in music, dance, theater and the visual arts. Under the plan, high school students can select a major in the arts that includes technology and the arts as well as performance.
"We want to create a mecca for the arts in the region," Dr. Phyllis Glassman, Deputy Superintendent of Ossining, said. "We want to be an exemplar as an area of serious and in-depth study. We consider arts basic to students' education." In the summer, the district sponsored an arts academy for high school students.
Work like that written by Vic Pathak, an 11th grader at Ossining High School, as part of an exercise to compose a response to music, reflects the program's objectives.
He wrote:
It's not ambiguous to visualize,
All the artistic rhymes
Fuse into your mind. Tune in
To the beautiful sound, which
As you can hear, is very profound.
 Music and Poetry make a powerful
Combination. When you hear them together
 They make a wonderful sensation, but the
Temptation is too strong if you don't hear it for long
And everything is rhythmic, just hear my song.
 
Grants Make the Arts More Than a Frill
One example of the renewed focus on arts education is the Empire State Partnership grants, an initiative from the State Department of Education and the State Council on the Arts.
Madeleine Holzer, director of Arts in Education for the Council for the Arts, said: "The idea is that the arts are integrated to a core curriculum, that they're not a frill, but worthwhile parts of the human experience. Through our grants, we want to improve learning and teaching through the arts. The idea is that arts are part of the fabric of a school and of the curriculum. It's no longer about exposing students to art, through a museum visit or concert, but about integrating arts into the curriculum."
Greenburgh and Yonkers earlier this year received a total of $157,000 in state grants to teach various subjects. Greenburgh received $92,000 for the district, while the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers is using its $65,000 grant to run literacy programs at the Yonkers Museum School of the Arts and Sciences and the Museum Middle School.
One current project in Greenburgh involves pairing an earth science teacher with a visual artist, who will help students refine their skills at detailed observation by doing landscape painting of the Woodlands campus. Last year, some fifth and sixth graders at the Richard Bailey Middle School worked with a visiting musician to learn about the science of sound..
The Council for the Arts sponsors Empire State partnership grants in conjunction with New York state's Department of Education.
As another partnership example, New Rochelle High School and Purchase College received a $100,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts to begin a pilot dance program.
Although the high school has run a dance program as part of its physical education program, the grant enables the school and the college to design a multicultural curriculum and also allows professional dance groups to work with students at the college and the high school. MERRI ROSENBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Campbell, above, teaches storytelling and dance to first graders at Lee F. Jackson School in Greenburgh Central Seven School District. At Hillside in Hastings-On-Hudson, students' pieces of art line the walls. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (82%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CULTURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); OPERA (77%); DANCE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); DANCERS (76%); CORE CURRICULUM (73%); MUSIC GENRES (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



214 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 17; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
The Garde Returns to Life, Again

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
EVEN though the theater originally opened in 1926 -- when movie palaces were movie palaces -- who's to argue with what management calls the "premiere season" of the Garde Arts Center in New London?
For the shows on this season's schedule, beginning Saturday with Patti LuPone in concert, are live and include five Broadway musicals for two performances each. 
 The reopening of the Garde -- the grand climax of a $15.75 million campaign begun in 1996 -- represents a contemporary take on an eternal story about the roles big businesses play in the revitalization of small cities.
When Internet initiatives, gambling casinos, videos, malls and multiplexes compete, at the same time devaluating the human spirit, what is live entertainment to do?
Easy. Steve Sigel, managing director of the Garde Arts Center, considers arts programming as a multitasking approach. "What we used to call audiences are now cultural consumers," Mr. Sigel continued. "Life in America is market driven, whatever your venture."
New London (population 26,000) has been identified as a whaling, then a military industry center. But there is New London's educational present: Connecticut College's downtown campus near the Garde and the storied cottage of Eugene O'Neill's doomed family, a short walk away. In 1977 the Garde was "destined for demolition," Mr. Sigel said, after Warner Brothers, which ran the theater from 1929 to 1977, gave up.
The Robertson Paper Company bought it as a for-profit operation, which Mr. Sigel said proved an "untenable economic set up." That lasted until 1985.
Then a nonprofit community organization, the Garde Arts Center, bought and reopened the building. (The Garde is part of a four-story commercial structure.) "Five historical buildings on the block were also purchased," Mr. Sigel said. Major restoration involved an up-to-date recapturing of the Moorish splendor of the past. Recent restoration included the conversion of a storefront into an expanded lobby.
The Broadway series, in the 1,460-seat theater beginning Oct. 30, consists of touring companies of the musicals, "Annie," "1776," (in the same production to be seen at the Bushnell in Hartford), "Camelot," "Victor/Victoria" and "Show Boat." Watch for "Porgy and Bess" in December, and "Late Night Catechism," an intimate Off Broadway revue in another space (seating 350). Even the special events programming has a theater connection: "Tap Dogs," which was produced Off Broadway two seasons ago.
The Garde Arts Center season includes international opera and ballet companies and shows for youngsters. Audiences are expected to be drawn from Waterford, Old Lyme, Stonington, Norwich and Groton.
But how do modern marketing strategies and an esthetic philosophy join up? It takes the vision of a culturally minded individual to discover what George Milne, an executive with Pfizer Incorporated, calls "the natural synergy between creativity in research and in the arts."
The choice of the pharmaceutical company to expand its global research headquarters, which are based in nearby Groton, to New London where 2,000 employees will be moved next year, is an effort to help a downtown area in decline. "That's how our employees can contribute to the transformation of the city," Mr. Milne said. The company has already contributed $150,000 to the Garde campaign.
"If we want to recruit the best brains from around the world, the community -- its quality of life for business and culture -- should be the key incentive for Ph.D.'s to come here," Mr. Milne added. "A rich diverse environment attracts outstanding thinkers and leaders to raise their families in such a setting."
"It's all in our interests," Mr. Milne continued. "This is not altruism. It's good business -- to penetrate the surroundings where you live. Research and development should be stimulated through music and dance and theater. We can spur the whole bio-medical industry like Silicon Valley did with computers."
"The dimensions of the arts are a necessary balance to sustain human creativity -- and that's the key to our involvement here," he added.
Pfizer, which has a day care center in Groton, is to build another in New London. "Your ultimate legacy is the people you work with," Mr. Milne continued. "And Steve has managed to make an effective bridge between the history of the theater and modern spaces. I'm very encouraged." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GARDE ARTS CENTER (NEW LONDON, CONN) WARNER BROTHERS LICENSING (54%); GARDE ARTS CENTER (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARDE ARTS CENTER (NEW LONDON, CONN) GARDE ARTS CENTER (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BALLET (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (67%); RETAILERS (67%); RELIGION (61%); PAPER & PACKAGING (58%); THEATER (58%); INTERNET & WWW (55%); 

PERSON: LUPONE, PATTI; KLEIN, ALVIN STEVE SIGEL (90%); GEORGE MILNE (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



215 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9B; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Using Steel Frames For Homes

BYLINE: By EDWARD R. LIPINSKI

 BODY:
THE vast majority of the houses built in the United States today are constructed with wood. About 85 percent of that wood is used for framing. Since wood has been the primary building material since Colonial times, it might seem that there is no reason for change, but wood has its drawbacks.
In the first place, the supplies of old-growth timber are diminishing. This has caused the price of construction lumber to rise dramatically over the last few years. It has also forced the lumber industry to harvest wood from young trees. This new wood has a greater tendency to warp and split as it ages. This results in cracks and warping appearing throughout the house soon after it is finished. 
 For this reason, some builders are looking for alternatives to wood as framing. One possible substitute is steel. Steel can be cold-rolled into pieces that are roughly the same size and shape as dimensional framing lumber, so they can be used for studs, joists or rafters. The pieces are rolled into a C cross section -- for that reason they are called structural-C members, C-members or simply C's -- and are coated with zinc to make them rust resistant. They are also available with prepunched slots so electrical wires and plumbing lines can be run through.
For load-bearing walls, structural members are available in 16- to 20-gauge thicknesses. Studs for nonbearing walls are available in thinner 25-gauge steel. These pieces are lighter in weight, easier to cut and less expensive than the heavier gauge pieces.
Unlike wood, steel is structurally stable and uniformly straight. That means that walls, floors and ceilings can be constructed so they are truly flat, plumb and level. Steel is moisture-resistant, so it will not dry out and warp nor will it expand in humid weather. Steel framing is also fireproof and free from rot and insect infestations.
Right now, steel framing is not significantly less expensive than traditional dimensional lumber, but representatives of the steel industry point out that prices are relatively stable, while lumber costs are rising. In the coming years, it may be more economical to purchase steel framing.
Does all this mean that wood-framed houses are a thing of the past? Probably not. Right now about 1 percent of the houses currently being constructed in the United States have steel framing. The iron and steel industry hopes to entice more builders into using steel framing, and they predict that by the end of the next decade, 25 percent of residential homes will be framed with steel.
Steel framing, however, has a downside. The biggest drawback to using steel is that steel is a good conductor of heat. A steel stud will conduct 10 times more heat than its wooden counterpart. This means that a warm house can quickly loose much of its heat through the outside walls if they have steel framing. Extra insulation will not prevent this, because the heat that enters into steel studs quickly travels laterally through the framing to the outside of the house.
Builders try to prevent heat loss by sheathing the outside of the house with high-density foam board instead of the usual plywood or particle board. This slows the heat transmission through the walls, but it has little effect on heat loss through the ceiling. Manufacturers are designing steel structural members with raised knobs along the edges that minimize the contact between the wallboard and the studs. This effectively creates a thin barrier of air that insulates the stud from interior heat. Other manufacturers are planning to introduce an insulation tape that can be applied to the stud before the wallboard is installed.
Another drawback to using steel for construction is that most professional carpenters are not used to working with it. It's true that working with steel does not require any arcane skills or even sophisticated tools; still many carpenters make no secret of the fact that they would rather work with wood.
With a circular saw, a profession carpenter can quickly cut a dozen wooden studs to length in less time than it would take to trim six steel studs with a reciprocating saw or a circular saw with an abrasive wheel. So the amount of money saved by buying structural steel may be lost in money spent for increased construction time, although this is not likely to remain a significant problem as more builders experiment with steel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edward R. Lipinski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIR LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



216 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
How East Windsor Stemmed a Route 571 Exodus

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WHEN Lockheed Martin closed its 120-acre space satellite complex off Route 571 in East Windsor last year, it was the latest in a series of moves of commercial tenants caused by mergers or consolidations over the last five years. Their actions threatened to leave about half of the mile-long Route 571 corporate corridor -- 1.9 million square feet of space in the buildings between Route 535 and Route 130 -- a ghost town of sorts.
Anticipating further moves, East Windsor officials began a campaign in 1996 to draw pharmaceutical and high-tech office users to the corridor in the western sector of the 15-square-mile Mercer County township. Their pitch was to offer a streamlined approval process, a skilled labor pool and a less expensive location than the nearby Princeton Route 1 corridor, about four miles to the west. 
 In addition, there was the promise of better access to the Route 571 corridor because of the state's plan to build the 2.8-mile, $65 million Route 133 Bypass to link it to Exit 8 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
"We identified the kinds of development and businesses that would be attracted to the community because of the good value we offer and we are going after them," said Janice S. Mironov, the mayor of East Windsor.
Over the last year six companies -- including Shiseido America, a cosmetics firm, and i-STAT, which produces a hand-held computerized blood testing instrument -- have moved into many of the empty buildings along Route 571, helping to stabilize the township's tax base, Mayor Mironov said. Now, with the bypass road set to open later this month, she added, the focus is on new construction and building on the foundation that has been put in place.
The current owner of the former Lockheed Martin site, GMH Associates of Wayne, Pa., has demolished all but 300,000 square feet of the 700,000-square-foot old complex, a collection of interconnecting buildings dating to the 1950's and including a 50-foot-high spherical concrete structure, where satellites were tested. The remaining space, in two now separated structures, is being renovated to modern offices as the first phase of a 1.1-million-square-foot project called Windsor Corporate Park.
GMH -- a major owner and manager of office and residential properties, particularly of off-campus student housing -- acquired the site 18 months ago, but leased it back to Lockheed Martin. Though Lockheed announced it would close the complex four years ago the company slowly reduced its operations there until it shut down late last December.
A month later GMH started the demolition and renovation work at the site, which is expected to cost $30 million to $35 million, including the purchase price of the land. Its equity partner is Urdang & Associates Real Estate Advisors, of Wayne, Pa., which invests in projects on behalf of pension funds. Ultimately, some 800,000 more square feet of space could be added to the site, including corporate office space and high-tech flex space. The latter offers space for offices as well as research and development, assembly and production in low-rise structures.
Location and timing were important factors, said Gary Holloway, president of GMH, of his company's decision to move ahead with the project. "Our game plan is to coincide the opening of the first phase of the project as closely as possible with that of the bypass road," Mr. Holloway said, noting that the renovation is to be completed by February. With the improved access and proximity to Princeton, "we feel the project is in an ideal location" to draw tenants from the Princeton Route 1 corridor, northern New Jersey and Manhattan, he added.
Mr. Holloway said the annual asking rents at the project -- starting at $19.99 a square foot a year, compared with $27 and more for Class A space in the Princeton Route 1 corridor -- would also draw tenants to the Route 571 corridor.
In addition to GMH's site there is a 100-acre parcel, called Windsor Corporate Center, as well as six smaller ones that township officials hope will draw developers. The Windsor Corporate Center contains a 66,000-square-foot single-story building that had been mostly occupied by Lockheed Martin until last year and has since drawn i-STAT as a new tenant.
The remaining land at the center, which can accommodate up to 1 million square feet of space, is owned by DKM, a holding company based in Manhattan and managed by Gale & Wentworth, of Florham Park.
The strong economy and employment gains in the state that have focused attention on the Route 571 corridor have spurred construction of new Class A office space nearby, notably in the Route 1 corridor.
NEARLY a million square feet of space in eight buildings are under construction along that corridor, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the national commercial brokerage. In its midyear survey, the brokerage reported that over the preceding year the new construction pushed up the Class A office vacancy rate along Route 1 to 13.9 percent from 5 percent, as well as average asking rents to $28.98 from $25.57.
It also said that by year's end leasing activity along the corridor should increase as the buildings under construction continue to attract tenants before they are completed.
Stephen Jenco, senior research analyst at Grubb & Ellis, another national commercial brokerage, is not so sure. "Yes, the new buildings are leasing but they still have available space and tenants have some choices now," he said. So the question is, he continued, "if we see any slowdown in the market can the momentum sustain itself?"
Not surprisingly, proponents of the Route 571 corridor side with the more optimistic forecast. They also say that the combination of limited choices of large available blocks of contiguous space and economic pressures will nudge companies that do not want or need to be on Route 1 to look at less expensive and nontraditional markets like Route 571.
That is what Buschman Partners, the Princeton-based commercial brokerage marketing Windsor Corporate Park for GMH, is banking on. "Because we have one of the few large blocks of space available, we think we have a good chance of landing an office tenant, and, in turn, creating a market," said John Buschman, managing partner at the brokerage. It is, he added, all about timing, pricing and a little luck.
Maybe so. Last year GMH, which has its own brokerage division, tried marketing the site before the demolition of the old complex was complete at an annual rental rate of $22 a square foot, with no results. "The project was still too much of a dream back then, and the initial pricing was incorrect," Mr. Buschman said.
Though he said the current $19.99 asking rent is a teaser rate, which will increase after the first few lease deals, rents at Windsor Corporate Park will always be about $5 lower than those along Route 1. "And," he added, "there will be enough tenants concerned about the bottom line and saving money that the project will snag its share of the market."
As part of the renovation, the two buildings at Windsor Corporate Park -- one with 240,000 square feet, the other with 60,000 square feet -- will be given new mechanical systems as well as high-tech wiring. The old brown-brick facade of the larger L-shaped structure, which dates to the 1950's, will also be replaced with stucco and ribbons of glass to complement the masonry exterior of the smaller building. The renovation architect is Thomas E. Hall Associates of Wayne, Pa.
Once two-thirds of the larger building is leased, said Brad A. Robertson, project manager for GHM Associates, his company will begin planning for the 800,000 square feet of space on the remaining 80 acres of the site. Construction of that space will be tied to the market and will include both build-to-suit and speculative office construction as well as one-story high-tech flex space, Mr. Robertson said.
Meanwhile, Kris Bauman, vice president of development at Gale & Wentworth, said his company's effort at Windsor Corporate Center was centered on marketing the site to users and developers for high-tech space. "It is the niche to compete in because we think there are enough opportunities right now for Class A offices," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 300,000-square-foot former Lockheed Martin building being renovated for office space in Windsor Corporate Park in East Windsor.
 
Map of central New Jersey, highlighting East Windsor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST WINDSOR (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MERGERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); COSMETICS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); IN VITRO DIAGNOSTICS MFG (71%); LABOR FORCE (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (67%); TOILETRIES MFG (64%); STUDENT HOUSING (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE GARY HOLLOWAY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



217 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2492 words

HEADLINE: In the Flower District, A Crop of High-Rises

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
SEVEN years ago, Manuel Castedo moved his architectural practice into a 24-story loft building at 307 Seventh Avenue, near 27th Street, that was filled with furriers.
Ever since, he has been watching the fur flee. 
 "I was the first office tenant in this building," Mr. Castedo recalled. Now there are telecommunications and computer companies and other architects. Only a half dozen furriers remain.
Change is engulfing the old fur, fashion, flower and flea market districts along Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas in the West 20's. Mr. Castedo himself is contributing to the trend as the architect of a project at 291 Seventh Avenue, a block from his office, a loft building that is being turned into nine floor-through apartments by Houlihan-Parnes Realtors.
And that is one of the smaller undertakings.
In an area that has seen little new building since the Fashion Institute of Technology completed its Seventh Avenue megastructure in 1976, 2,100 housing units in seven projects, ranging from 10 to 37 stories and representing an investment of more than $600 million, are under construction or planned to begin within six months.
Spurring the transition are rezonings along Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas that permit residential development in what used to be manufacturing districts.
Developers like to say that they are expanding the boundaries of Chelsea northward, transforming unsightly parking lots into needed homes and amenities. But to those who live or work in the neighborhood, it feels more like the high-rise, high-rent contours of mid-Manhattan are being extended south, threatening daylight, small businesses and lower-income residents.
Beyond dispute is that another urban frontier, resistant to change even in the robust market of the 1980's, is at last being breached.
"There were these parking lot sites lying fallow on the avenues and there's clearly a great residential demand," said Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission. "The zoning changes to permit residential development on those avenue sites made sense. And now, after a long wait, it is under way."
At the same time, Mr. Rose said the commission would guard the side streets where so much small industry still exists. "The commission has been on record as vehemently opposing any zoning variances for the mid-blocks," he said.
Acknowledging that "one could engage in an interesting debate" on whether tall towers suited the area, Mr. Rose said their setbacks were meant to bring light and air to the mid-blocks.
What the planning chairman envisions is a mixed-use neighborhood in which apartment buildings, stores and light industry coexist.
Some local leaders are not nearly as sanguine.
Councilwoman Christine C. Quinn said she fears that "we've now taken 23d Street and, in our minds, decided that's where midtown begins, which means that it's O.K. to have really large buildings and it's not a place for small, family industries" like sewing-machine shops, printers, mannequin makers, furriers and flower dealers.
Not only will businesses be forced out but residents will see housing costs soar beyond their reach, said Kevin A. Finnegan, co-chairman of the land-use and zoning committee of Community Board 5 in mid-Manhattan.
"It's clear that what's under development is going to have significant impacts on nearby neighborhoods," he said. "Already in Chelsea, if you're not in a rent-stabilized apartment, you know you're going to have to move when the lease is up. This is going to accelerate the same pressure."
Housing costs are on the rise in the area from 22d to 28th Streets, Seventh Avenue to the Avenue of the Americas. According to the Corcoran Group, average sales prices to date this year were $282,000 for one-bedroom apartments, up 101 percent since 1996, and $525,000 for two-bedroom units, up 119 percent. The median rents were $1,650 for studios, up 34 percent since 1996; $2,800 for one-bedroom units, up 70 percent, and $3,650 for two-bedroom units, up 35 percent.
GIVEN the demand, the Rockrose Development Corporation has repeatedly raised prices at Chelsea Mercantile, an enormous loft building on Seventh Avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets, that it is converting into a 354-unit condominium. The architect is Avinash K. Malhotra, with public spaces designed by Gruzen Samton.
Penthouse C, a 2,246-square-foot, three-bedroom duplex that commands a view not unlike that in the photograph above, was offered in May for $1.56 million. In June, it was priced at $1.88 million; in July, $2.05 million. Today, the price is $2.15 million.
And Rockrose is having no trouble finding buyers. Last month, with the building still under construction, 205 units were under contract, said Kevin P. Singleton, vice president and general manager of Rockrose.
On the ground floor, Whole Foods Market Inc. of Austin, Tex., plans to open a 40,000-square-foot Fresh Fields Whole Foods Market next summer. The company calls itself the "largest purveyor of natural foods in the world" but does not have a New York City outlet. (It is not connected with Whole Foods of SoHo, 117 Prince Street, or Whole Foods-Uptown, 2421 Broadway, at 89th Street.)
"As we're developing a mini-neighborhood, this use is ground zero," Mr. Singleton said. Rockrose is poised to do for lower Seventh Avenue what it has already done in the West Village: transform the area with a mix of new and renovated buildings, condominiums and rental units, some of them subsidized for lower-income tenants.
It came on the scene last year by winning a sealed bid for what is now Chelsea Mercantile, a U-shaped structure built in four phases from 1906 to 1914. Long ago, the building housed the National Cloak and Suit Company and more recently the Federal Department of Veterans Affairs.
Rockrose also owns the lots between Chelsea Mercantile and the Fashion Institute of Technology, where it plans a 356-unit "80-20" rental project, designed by Costas Kondylis & Associates. K. Thomas Elghanayan, the president of Rockrose, said the project was made possible by the rezoning of a large swath of Chelsea earlier this year.
Essentially two buildings on an L-shaped parcel, the project will face the avenue with a bay-fronted structure of 10 stories, rising to 17 stories. An 11-story wing on 26th Street could be used as a dormitory, Mr. Elghanayan said. Rockrose will seek tax-exempt bond financing for one or both parts of the project, which would oblige it to set aside 20 percent of the units for lower-income tenants, with 80 percent at market rates.
Rockrose does not think small and Mr. Elghanayan allowed that he is pursuing other projects nearby. "I can't disclose what," he said, "but we're interested."
The Fashion Institute of Technology is similarly circumspect about its future. But Jacqueline L. Venable, the vice president for institutional advancement, said there is a master plan, within the existing boundaries of the campus, "to renovate, modernize and expand our facilities to respond to the growth in our student body and the changes in the industries we serve."
F.I.T. will offer weekend courses in decorating and refinishing next year. "I want to serve the people who want to live around here," said Prof. Elaine Stone, the acting dean for continuing education, "and make them feel that this is a community."
When Professor Stone began teaching at F.I.T. 22 years ago -- in a quonset hut -- furriers still filled numerous buildings along Seventh Avenue. No longer.
"We see a lot of consolidation in the fur industry," said Vincent Terranova, executive vice president of Bernstein Real Estate. "They are not occupying as much space as they used to." The company, which owns and manages lofts in the fur district and elsewhere, was founded by Sidney J. Bernstein, now 95, whose father was a furrier. The industry has not entirely vanished, however. For example, 150 West 30th Street is still "100 percent fur," Mr. Terranova said.
"The side streets are really remaining the same," Professor Stone said. "I think it will stay a mixed neighborhood."
Still, it is a different place than it was in the early 1970's when a self-described "neophyte broker" named Harry Macklowe of Wolf & Macklowe began selling property to a men's wear executive, Leonard Adell.
Mr. Adell had an office at the Avenue of the Americas and 31st Street. Where others saw a streetscape that had been badly stunted by decades under the Sixth Avenue el, Mr. Adell saw solid infrastructure, good transportation and high visibility.
Throughout the 1970's, Mr. Adell painstakingly assembled small parcels along the Avenue of the Americas into three sites, including the Coogan Building at 26th Street, which was built in 1875 as the Racquet Court Club but had long been used as loft space.
"This recent wave of activity is testimony that he was right," said Leonard's son, Matthew G. Adell, who is president of the Adell Corporation. "We were alone in our vision for many, many years."
The Adells failed in their efforts to obtain a rezoning in the late 70's and early 80's. Then, in 1989, the Coogan was designated a landmark as "one of the oldest surviving club buildings in Manhattan."
Two months later, the Board of Estimate overturned the designation. And a rezoning of the Avenue of the Americas was enacted in 1995. But the real estate market was not yet ready, Matthew Adell said.
Earlier this year, in partnership with Steven C. Witkoff, president of the Witkoff Group, the younger Mr. Adell bought the three sites assembled by his father. The parcels will be developed in phases, as the market warrants, Mr. Adell said. The working title of the project is "Center Six."
Construction is to begin early next year of the first "Center Six" building, between 26th and 27th Streets: a $120 million tower with 387 rental apartments. Because it will be conventionally financed, Mr. Adell said, all the units will be market rate, probably ranging from $1,700 to $4,000 a month.
There will be a mid-block plaza to the east of the building, which generated a 20 percent zoning bonus. The faceted facade steps up from a 4-story commercial base to a 37-story turret. Mr. Kondylis, the architect, said the turret would serve as an "urban signal," akin to the campaniles and domes of Europe, and that the rounded corners echoed older buildings in the area.
But the tower is also replacing the Coogan Building, which Councilwoman Quinn and others would like to save.
Jennifer J. Raab, the chairwoman of the landmarks commission, said her predecessors "did absolutely the right thing in designating the building" but that the "political process reversed the decision."
"Do you re-fight those battles?" she asked. "We decided not to do that. The political process has spoken and there is no reason to believe the politics would be any different" -- especially since the city subsequently rezoned the site to encourage the kind of development Mr. Adell envisions.
Landmarks and planning officials had more influence on the design of the Caroline, a 440-unit, "80-20" rental building on the Avenue of the Americas, between 22d and 23d Streets, in the Ladies' Mile Historic District. Fraydun Manocherian, who leads a partnership known as Whitehall Properties in the development of the site, said he hoped construction might begin in a month or two.
True to its setting in the historic shopping district, the building will have a lot of retail space -- almost 100,000 square feet.
Designed by Richard Cook & Associates and Mr. Kondylis to complement the old dry-goods stores nearby, the Caroline will rise 10 stories on the avenue, doubling in height along 23d Street. "It's completely counterintuitive to the standard statement as to how Manhattan blocks develop," Mr. Cook said, "but this was a very careful insertion into the urban fabric."
"That's such a critical site in terms of the character of the area that it deserved a building that paid attention to its obvious context," said Mr. Rose, the planning chairman. And Ms. Raab believes that "the materials and the design took a historic motif and turned it into 21st-century language."
Councilwoman Quinn is unpersuaded. "Sometimes in land use," she said, "we lull ourselves into thinking that what we've made better is in fact good."
For his part, Mr. Manocherian said the result of the long negotiations was a "very unique building." Having bought the site in 1984, he has been waiting almost as long as the Adells to begin development.
It is a couple of newcomers to the area, Albanese Development Corporation and Arbor National Commercial Mortgage, who have become the first to build on the Avenue of the Americas under the new zoning.
Their 30-story tower at 750 Avenue of the Americas, between 24th and 25th Streets, will have 300 studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments, plus 15,000 square feet of retail space. It is an "80-20" project and is scheduled to open next May.
"Before we broke ground there was nothing going on" in the way of new construction, said Christopher V. Albanese, executive vice president of Albanese Development. "We're very excited that other residential projects will follow us."
Mr. Macklowe, who returned to the area a few years ago with a condominium conversion called the Chelsea Atelier, at Seventh Avenue and 24th Street, sees the neighborhood taking form. "This is a logical, sequential development from Houston Street straight up Sixth Avenue," he said. "You're going to have a concentration, which I think will really be beneficial in creating what they refer to as a critical mass."
The Macklowe Organization is planning a 31-story tower at 777 Avenue of the Americas, between 26th and 27th Streets. There are to be 291 rental apartments in this $80 million project, which will take advantage of a zoning bonus that rewards the construction of lower-income housing elsewhere in the community board district. Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron are the architects of the Albanese and Macklowe towers.
WITH the construction of these projects, Alan Boss's Annex Antiques Fair and Flea Market Inc. has lost two parking lots on which it conducts its well-attended weekend markets.
Mr. Boss expects to operate for the foreseeable future in the lot on the west side of the avenue, between 24th and 25th Streets; in the lot to the west and paralleling the avenue, between 25th to 26th Streets and in the lot on the east side, between 25th and 26th Streets. Ultimately, he might consolidate the market elsewhere.
Mr. Boss is less certain than the developers that luxury housing is the salvation of an area he has known for 23 years. "What happens when the cycle goes down?" he asked. "People can't pay $2,500 for a one-bedroom if they don't have a job."
But he also sounds resigned to the construction going on around him. "I always knew it would be developed," Mr. Boss said. "After all, it's New York."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Condominium at 291 Seventh Ave. Matthew G. Adell plans a tower to replace the Coogan Building, in background. Albanese Development's tower rises near the flower market. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Caroline is to have a 10-story portion along the Avenue of the Americas, relating to the old dry-goods stores of the Ladies' Mile Historic District, and a 20-story tower on 23d Street. (Jock Pottle/Esto for Richard Cook & Associates); Tower planned at 26th Street, on the site of the Coogan Building. (Tesla); Atop Chelsea Mercantile, the condominium conversion of a loft building at Sevnth Avnue ad 24th Street, Rockrose Development is adding penthouses with views of lower Manhattan. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Chart/Map: "Dwelling Among Furs, Flowers and Flea Markets" -- Shows notable residential projects now or soon to be under way. Map shows a portion of Manhattan. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC); WEST SIDE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ZONING; HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FUR; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; FLEA MARKETS; APPAREL REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ZONING (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); FUR APPAREL STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); TRENDS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); CITIES (63%); 

PERSON: ;DUNLAP, DAVID W MANUEL CASTEDO (63%); JOSEPH B ROSE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



218 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Polly Minifie, John Snyder

 BODY:
Margaret Chapin Minifie and John Michael Snyder, associates at Washington law firms, were married yesterday at King's Chapel in Boston. The Rev. Catherine S. Gibson, an Episcopal priest and the bridegroom's godmother, performed the ceremony.
The bride works at Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, the bridegroom at Collier, Shannon, Rill & Scott. 
 Mrs. Snyder, 28, is known as Polly. She graduated from Brown University and received a law degree magna cum laude from Georgetown University. She is a daughter of James M. Minifie of Cambridge, Mass., and the late Lola H. Minifie. Her father is an architect in Cambridge.
Mr. Snyder, also 28, graduated with honors from Stanford University and received a law degree from the University of Virginia. He is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Michael H. Snyder of Falls Church, Va. His father retired as the regional contracting officer for Poland and Eastern Europe, in Warsaw, for the United States Agency for International Development. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%); POLAND (65%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); WARSAW, POLAND (65%); 

COMPANY: KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP (84%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%); POLAND (65%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); WARSAW, POLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MINIFIE, MARGARET CHAPIN (MARGARET CHAPIN SNYDER); SNYDER, JOHN MICHAEL JOHN H MICHAEL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



219 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 18; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Steel Instead of Wood for Homes

BYLINE: By EDWARD R. LIPINSKI

 BODY:
THE vast majority of the houses built in the United States today are constructed with wood. About 85 percent of that wood is used for framing. Since wood has been the primary building material since Colonial times, it might seem that there is no reason for change, but wood has its drawbacks.
In the first place, the supplies of old-growth timber are diminishing. This has caused the price of construction lumber to rise dramatically over the last few years. It has also forced the lumber industry to harvest wood from young trees. This new wood has a greater tendency to warp and split as it ages. This results in cracks and warping appearing throughout the house soon after it is finished. 
 For this reason, some builders are looking for alternatives to wood as framing. One possible substitute is steel. Steel can be cold-rolled into pieces that are roughly the same size and shape as dimensional framing lumber, so they can be used for studs, joists or rafters. The pieces are rolled into a C cross section -- for that reason they are called structural-C members, C-members or simply C's -- and are coated with zinc to make them rust resistant. They are also available with prepunched slots so electrical wires and plumbing lines can be run through.
For load-bearing walls, structural members are available in 16- to 20-gauge thicknesses. Studs for nonbearing walls are available in thinner 25-gauge steel. These pieces are lighter in weight, easier to cut and less expensive than the heavier gauge pieces.
Unlike wood, steel is structurally stable and uniformly straight. That means that walls, floors and ceilings can be constructed so they are truly flat, plumb and level. Steel is moisture-resistant, so it will not dry out and warp nor will it expand in humid weather. Steel framing is also fireproof and free from rot and insect infestations.
Right now, steel framing is not significantly less expensive than traditional dimensional lumber, but representatives of the steel industry point out that prices are relatively stable, while lumber costs are rising. In the coming years, it may be more economical to purchase steel framing.
Does all this mean that wood-framed houses are a thing of the past? Probably not. Right now about 1 percent of the houses currently being constructed in the United States have steel framing. The iron and steel industry hopes to entice more builders into using steel framing, and they predict that by the end of the next decade, 25 percent of residential homes will be framed with steel.
Steel framing, however, has a downside. The biggest drawback to using steel is that steel is a good conductor of heat. A steel stud will conduct 10 times more heat than its wooden counterpart. This means that a warm house can quickly loose much of its heat through the outside walls if they have steel framing. Extra insulation will not prevent this, because the heat that enters into steel studs quickly travels laterally through the framing to the outside of the house.
Builders try to prevent heat loss by sheathing the outside of the house with high-density foam board instead of the usual plywood or particle board. This slows the heat transmission through the walls, but it has little effect on heat loss through the ceiling. Manufacturers are designing steel structural members with raised knobs along the edges that minimize the contact between the wallboard and the studs. This effectively creates a thin barrier of air that insulates the stud from interior heat. Other manufacturers are planning to introduce an insulation tape that can be applied to the stud before the wallboard is installed.
Another drawback to using steel for construction is that most professional carpenters are not used to working with it. It's true that working with steel does not require any arcane skills or even sophisticated tools; still many carpenters make no secret of the fact that they would rather work with wood.
With a circular saw, a profession carpenter can quickly cut a dozen wooden studs to length in less time than it would take to trim six steel studs with a reciprocating saw or a circular saw with an abrasive wheel. So the amount of money saved by buying structural steel may be lost in money spent for increased construction time, although this is not likely to remain a significant problem as more builders experiment with steel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edward R. Lipinski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIR LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%); 

PERSON: STEEL INSTEAD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



220 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 20; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Steel Instead of Wood for Homes

BYLINE: By EDWARD R. LIPINSKI

 BODY:
THE vast majority of the houses built in the United States today are constructed with wood. About 85 percent of that wood is used for framing. Since wood has been the primary building material since Colonial times, it might seem that there is no reason for change, but wood has its drawbacks.
In the first place, the supplies of old-growth timber are diminishing. This has caused the price of construction lumber to rise dramatically over the last few years. It has also forced the lumber industry to harvest wood from young trees. This new wood has a greater tendency to warp and split as it ages. This results in cracks and warping appearing throughout the house soon after it is finished. 
 For this reason, some builders are looking for alternatives to wood as framing. One possible substitute is steel. Steel can be cold-rolled into pieces that are roughly the same size and shape as dimensional framing lumber, so they can be used for studs, joists or rafters. The pieces are rolled into a C cross section -- for that reason they are called structural-C members, C-members or simply C's -- and are coated with zinc to make them rust resistant. They are also available with prepunched slots so electrical wires and plumbing lines can be run through.
For load-bearing walls, structural members are available in 16- to 20-gauge thicknesses. Studs for nonbearing walls are available in thinner 25-gauge steel. These pieces are lighter in weight, easier to cut and less expensive than the heavier gauge pieces.
Unlike wood, steel is structurally stable and uniformly straight. That means that walls, floors and ceilings can be constructed so they are truly flat, plumb and level. Steel is moisture-resistant, so it will not dry out and warp nor will it expand in humid weather. Steel framing is also fireproof and free from rot and insect infestations.
Right now, steel framing is not significantly less expensive than traditional dimensional lumber, but representatives of the steel industry point out that prices are relatively stable, while lumber costs are rising. In the coming years, it may be more economical to purchase steel framing.
Does all this mean that wood-framed houses are a thing of the past? Probably not. Right now about 1 percent of the houses currently being constructed in the United States have steel framing. The iron and steel industry hopes to entice more builders into using steel framing, and they predict that by the end of the next decade, 25 percent of residential homes will be framed with steel.
Steel framing, however, has a downside. The biggest drawback to using steel is that steel is a good conductor of heat. A steel stud will conduct 10 times more heat than its wooden counterpart. This means that a warm house can quickly loose much of its heat through the outside walls if they have steel framing. Extra insulation will not prevent this, because the heat that enters into steel studs quickly travels laterally through the framing to the outside of the house.
Builders try to prevent heat loss by sheathing the outside of the house with high-density foam board instead of the usual plywood or particle board. This slows the heat transmission through the walls, but it has little effect on heat loss through the ceiling. Manufacturers are designing steel structural members with raised knobs along the edges that minimize the contact between the wallboard and the studs. This effectively creates a thin barrier of air that insulates the stud from interior heat. Other manufacturers are planning to introduce an insulation tape that can be applied to the stud before the wallboard is installed.
Another drawback to using steel for construction is that most professional carpenters are not used to working with it. It's true that working with steel does not require any arcane skills or even sophisticated tools; still many carpenters make no secret of the fact that they would rather work with wood.
With a circular saw, a profession carpenter can quickly cut a dozen wooden studs to length in less time than it would take to trim six steel studs with a reciprocating saw or a circular saw with an abrasive wheel. So the amount of money saved by buying structural steel may be lost in money spent for increased construction time, although this is not likely to remain a significant problem as more builders experiment with steel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edward R. Lipinski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIR LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%); 

PERSON: STEEL INSTEAD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



221 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 18; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Steel Instead of Wood for Homes

BYLINE: By EDWARD R. LIPINSKI 

 BODY:
THE vast majority of the houses built in the United States today are constructed with wood. About 85 percent of that wood is used for framing. Since wood has been the primary building material since Colonial times, it might seem that there is no reason for change, but wood has its drawbacks.
In the first place, the supplies of old-growth timber are diminishing. This has caused the price of construction lumber to rise dramatically over the last few years. It has also forced the lumber industry to harvest wood from young trees. This new wood has a greater tendency to warp and split as it ages. This results in cracks and warping appearing throughout the house soon after it is finished. 
 For this reason, some builders are looking for alternatives to wood as framing. One possible substitute is steel. Steel can be cold-rolled into pieces that are roughly the same size and shape as dimensional framing lumber, so they can be used for studs, joists or rafters. The pieces are rolled into a C cross section -- for that reason they are called structural-C members, C-members or simply C's -- and are coated with zinc to make them rust resistant. They are also available with prepunched slots so electrical wires and plumbing lines can be run through.
For load-bearing walls, structural members are available in 16- to 20-gauge thicknesses. Studs for nonbearing walls are available in thinner 25-gauge steel. These pieces are lighter in weight, easier to cut and less expensive than the heavier gauge pieces.
Unlike wood, steel is structurally stable and uniformly straight. That means that walls, floors and ceilings can be constructed so they are truly flat, plumb and level. Steel is moisture-resistant, so it will not dry out and warp nor will it expand in humid weather. Steel framing is also fireproof and free from rot and insect infestations.
Right now, steel framing is not significantly less expensive than traditional dimensional lumber, but representatives of the steel industry point out that prices are relatively stable, while lumber costs are rising. In the coming years, it may be more economical to purchase steel framing.
Does all this mean that wood-framed houses are a thing of the past? Probably not. Right now about 1 percent of the houses currently being constructed in the United States have steel framing. The iron and steel industry hopes to entice more builders into using steel framing, and they predict that by the end of the next decade, 25 percent of residential homes will be framed with steel.
Steel framing, however, has a downside. The biggest drawback to using steel is that steel is a good conductor of heat. A steel stud will conduct 10 times more heat than its wooden counterpart. This means that a warm house can quickly loose much of its heat through the outside walls if they have steel framing. Extra insulation will not prevent this, because the heat that enters into steel studs quickly travels laterally through the framing to the outside of the house.
Builders try to prevent heat loss by sheathing the outside of the house with high-density foam board instead of the usual plywood or particle board. This slows the heat transmission through the walls, but it has little effect on heat loss through the ceiling. Manufacturers are designing steel structural members with raised knobs along the edges that minimize the contact between the wallboard and the studs. This effectively creates a thin barrier of air that insulates the stud from interior heat. Other manufacturers are planning to introduce an insulation tape that can be applied to the stud before the wallboard is installed.
Another drawback to using steel for construction is that most professional carpenters are not used to working with it. It's true that working with steel does not require any arcane skills or even sophisticated tools; still many carpenters make no secret of the fact that they would rather work with wood.
With a circular saw, a profession carpenter can quickly cut a dozen wooden studs to length in less time than it would take to trim six steel studs with a reciprocating saw or a circular saw with an abrasive wheel. So the amount of money saved by buying structural steel may be lost in money spent for increased construction time, although this is not likely to remain a significant problem as more builders experiment with steel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edward R. Lipinski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; STEEL AND IRON LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%); 

PERSON: LIPINSKI, EDWARD R STEEL INSTEAD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



222 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Municipal Bonds Can Provide a Hedge, and Its Thorns Are Limited

BYLINE: By ABBY SCHULTZ 

 BODY:
YES, the headlines and the total return figures for municipal bonds the last 12 months have made for ugly reading. Do the math, though, and munis and muni bond funds come up a pretty attractive buy.
Municipal bond prices have been beaten down by a global flight to supersafe Treasury bonds, booming equity markets and the whiff of flat-tax talk in the Presidential election campaign, according to David W. Baldt, portfolio manager of Morgan Grenfell's municipal bond funds. (Proposals like those for a flat tax would generally strip municipals of their tax advantage over other bonds.) 
 As a result, yields on municipals are now very attractive for investors who want to limit risk in their portfolios, and they compare favorably with Treasuries. On Sept. 30, top-quality 30-year munis yielded 5.70 percent, on average, or 94.4 percent of the yield on a 30-year Treasury bond, before taking taxes into account. Historically, muni bond yields are only 82 to 85 percent of Treasury yields, said Steven D. Harrop, a portfolio manager at Strong Capital Management in Milwaukee.
Because municipal bond interest is not taxable for most investors, after-tax yields work out very much in the munis' favor: to beat that average yield on a 30-year triple-A rated muni after taxes, a taxable investment like a Treasury bond would have to yield 7.9 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket or 8.9 percent for those in the 36 percent bracket; the actual long bond yield that day was just 6.04 percent. (To find a taxable-equivalent yield, subtract your tax rate from 1 and divide the remainder into the yield.)
THE next question for investors is how best to buy municipals -- and the answer is not simple. Buying bonds directly, rather than investing through a bond mutual fund, makes sense for investors who want to hold the investment to maturity and recoup their principal on that date. Investors who want a more flexible vehicle might choose a fund instead.
"With a bond fund, there is no 'maturity,' " noted David P. Dresbach, a certified financial planner in St. Paul. Managers of open-end mutual funds trade securities almost every day as money flows in and out of the fund, and the portfolio is always being refreshed with new bonds.
Buying bonds directly also means a bigger commitment of money. Bonds generally cost at least $5,000 apiece and should be traded in lots of at least $20,000 to get better prices. Experts say an adequately diversified portfolio requires $100,000 or more. Bond funds, of course, provide such economies of scale -- and generally require small minimum investments.
Another consideration is credit risk. Muni bonds come in all credit ratings, from sterling to junk, and some are not even rated by independent agencies. Researching such bonds is possible for professional managers but impractical for many investors, Mr. Dresbach said.
So a bond fund may be the answer for someone who does not have $100,000 to commit to municipals or does not want exposure to unknown risks. A fund can also offer greater flexibility and opportunity to realize capital appreciation.
IF a bond fund is right for you, there is another fork in the road: Should you choose an open-end fund, one whose price reflects its net asset value, or a closed-end fund, which trades like a stock?
"For most investors, it makes sense to start off simple and work with the open-end fund," says Eric Jacobson, associate editor at Morningstar Inc., the financial publisher in Chicago. He said closed-end funds were more suitable for investors with sizable muni portfolios and plenty of time to study their quirks.
Open-end funds are often grouped by geography: funds that concentrate on bonds from a single state and national funds that buy munis from anywhere.
Single-state funds provide investors in that state with income that is free of Federal, state and any local income taxes. They are especially attractive for investors in high-tax states like New York and California; they offer no advantage over national funds for anyone not subject to that state's income tax.
But single-state funds can have two disadvantages. Trouble in that state's economy or politics, like the bankruptcy of Orange County, Calif., in 1994, can send them sinking. And because demand for municipal bonds is highest in states where taxes are highest, muni yields in those states tend to be lower than elsewhere, sometimes low enough to undo the benefit of the state-tax exemption, said Mr. Harrop at Strong, whose company offers only national funds.
Both state and national funds may be divided into categories based on the maturities of their bonds, from money market to long term. Yields are higher with longer maturities, but so are the risks that investors will be exposed to price volatility or locked into interest rates that do not keep pace with inflation.
An interesting offshoot of the national-fund category is the high-yield muni fund, so called because its portfolio tilts heavily toward bonds with low-credit ratings or none at all -- in other words, the least expensive and riskiest bonds. About 87 percent of the $98 million portfolio of Heartland High Yield Municipal Bond, for instance, is in nonrated securities, according to Morningstar.
Mr. Baldt at Morgan Grenfell said most investors should give these types of funds a wide berth because they de-emphasize a goal of most bond funds -- preservation of principal.
With a muni fund, he said, "you are really not looking to shoot the lights out with high returns." High-yield bonds are speculative but their historical returns are far below those of the stock market, he added, and they usually do not outpace higher-rated bonds by enough to be worth the added risk.
BUT Mr. Jacobson at Morningstar says some high-yield managers find good buys. "You want to try to identify a fund with a good record of managing its credit risk in the past," he said. One sign is whether a fund's net asset value has ever eroded sharply. If it has, find out from the fund if defaulted bonds were the reason, Mr. Jacobson said, though he added that such information is not the easiest to obtain.
Unlike their open-end cousins, closed-end funds trade on exchanges through brokers just as stocks do. That is where the quirks come in: most closed-end funds trade at a discount to their net asset value and are best bought in the secondary market, not when first issued. The discount bolsters the effective yield of the fund, just as buying a bond at a price below face value increases its yield.
Many closed-end funds are leveraged to further strengthen their yield, meaning that they borrow money at short-term rates, usually by selling shares of preferred stock, and use the proceeds to buy longer-term, higher-yielding investments. The difference between the two turns into added yield for fund shareholders, said Jeffrey Kratz, director of exchange-traded fund marketing at John Nuveen & Company in Chicago.
As a result, he said, closed-end funds typically yield a percentage point more than their open-end counterparts. But the leverage also amplifies the funds' vulnerability to interest rate risk compared with that of open-end funds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "In the Bargain Basement?"
Municipal bond funds have suffered this year because of the Federal Reserve's tightening, inflation fears and renewed talk of a flat tax, among other things. Some experts think the battering has made them attractive buys. Investors can choose from single-state, national and closed-end funds, as well as high-yield offerings. Following are the best-performing funds, ranked by three-year returns, through Sept. 30. Charts list top-performing national municipal funds and top-performing single-state municipal funds. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (96%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); 

PERSON: SCHULTZ, ABBY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



223 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
The Stock Market And Social Security

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Turning to Wall Street for help may not solve Social Security's potential problems, a group of researchers has found.
Investing some Social Security taxes in the stock market will not eliminate the program's projected deficit, they said. And under some circumstances, the analysis concluded, it may even accelerate it. 
 Economists from Goldman Sachs, Invesco, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and J. P. Morgan did the research for the Committee on Investment of Employee Benefit Assets, an association of corporate pension plans based in Washington.
The economists considered three environments in which 50 to 75 percent of the current surplus in Social Security taxes would be invested in stocks. They concluded that if the market performed in historical patterns, the year in which Social Security, without any other changes, would technically be out of money would be delayed from 2034, the current official projection, to between 2038 and 2046.
But if the stock market dropped 20 to 30 percent during the next five years, Social Security could run into a deficit as early as 2032, they said.
Workers, meanwhile, can expect annual letters from the Social Security Administration listing their earnings histories and projected benefits in retirement; the letters are similar to the annual benefits statements that companies must mail. The first letters were sent on Oct. 1. Half a million are to be mailed each business day, timed to arrive three months before the recipient's next birthday.
 DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%); IVZ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE ON INVESTMENT OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT ASSETS GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); INVESCO LTD (57%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON INVESTMENT OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT ASSETS SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STOCKS AND BONDS SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



224 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: STRATEGIES;
Are Fund Managers Irrelevant? An 18th-Century Theory Suggests Not

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT 

 BODY:
THE debate over index funds has been exceedingly lopsided. Reason and common sense have been almost completely on the side of those who advocate investing all of a portfolio in index funds.
The statistics are familiar: Only a very small percentage of actively managed stock funds perform as well as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- just 6 percent, for example, over the last five years (although they've had more success in the last two quarters). And many people try to explain away those few funds that have beaten the market by saying they have done so by chance alone. After all, if several thousand monkeys threw darts at the stock pages of the newspaper, some of them would beat the market, too. 
 The debate is about to become a lot less lopsided. A new paper, available on the Internet but as yet unpublished, reveals that the case for indexing an entire portfolio -- tying all of it to funds that track major market indexes -- is a lot weaker than many people have thought. The study, titled "Should Investors Avoid All Actively Managed Mutual Funds? A Study in Bayesian Performance Evaluation," was written by Klaas Baks, Andrew Metrick and Jessica Wachter. Mr. Metrick is an assistant professor of finance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Baks and Ms. Wachter are graduate students in economics at Brown University and Harvard, respectively.
Because it is waist-high in statistics, the paper probably won't prompt a stampede into actively managed mutual funds. But it should turn upside down a lot of people's thinking about indexing.
The first point that these academics make, if not particularly original, is nevertheless one that is not often appreciated: Just because the vast majority of managers fail to beat the market consistently doesn't mean that none have the talent to do so.
"Big deal," an indexing absolutist might say. "Even if the rare money manager has the stock-picking prowess necessary to beat the index, it doesn't alter the fact that he is in the extreme minority, and that rational investors therefore ought to put their whole portfolio into index funds."
That is where the absolutists are wrong, according to the paper, which can be read at http://finance.wharton.upenn.edu/metrick/nberap2.pdf.
The study's key assertion is that once it is conceded that even a very small percentage of managers have the ability to beat the market, it becomes irrational not to invest a big portion of an equity portfolio in the funds that have beaten the market, on a risk-adjusted basis, by the greatest amounts over the long term.
The study relies on a type of statistical analysis pioneered by the Rev. Thomas Bayes, an 18th-century mathematician, whose theory explains how probabilities should be updated in light of new information.
A nonfinancial example illustrates how Bayesian analysis works. Imagine that 10 percent of a coin dealer's inventory of identical-looking coins are special -- they are weighted so that when you toss them, they come up heads three-quarters of the time, instead of just half. Suppose, too, that before buying a coin, you are allowed to flip it to determine whether it is one of the trick coins.
Before flipping the first coin, you know that there's a 10 percent probability that it's one of the trick ones. That probability will grow slightly after the first flip comes up heads -- to 14.3 percent, according to the Bayes theorem. The probability will continue to grow after each successive flip that comes up heads. And though that probability will never reach 100 percent, after enough flips, the majority of which come up heads, it becomes a better than 50-50 proposition that the coin you're flipping is one of the trick coins.
THE researchers used a similar process to measure the probabilities that fund managers of 1,437 actively managed United States diversified equity funds would beat benchmarks in the future. It is a good analogy, because a superior fund manager won't necessarily beat his or her benchmark all the time, just most of the time.
Instead of flipping coins, of course, the researchers looked at a manager's performances in successive months relative to that of the relevant benchmark. And instead of the 10 percent initial probability, used in the trick-coin example, the researchers used a range of extremely conservative assumptions -- for example, that just 1 in 5,000 portfolio managers had the ability to outperform a benchmark. Remember, this initial assumption gives you the base upon which the subsequent probability data rest. In the coin example, it's a given, but in looking at manager ability, the authors started with extremely conservative probabilities in order to make a point.
The rest of the analogy holds up. The researchers repeatedly updated the probability that a given manager had the ability to beat his or benchmark in light of his performance in period after period. Even assuming that just two-hundredths of 1 percent of all managers had the talent to regularly beat the market, it turns out that there were a few managers who performed well enough to justify investing in their funds.
Unfortunately, though the study's extensive data base began with 1963, it ended with 1996. And its methodology is so complex that we cannot update the data easily ourselves, so we don't know which of today's fund managers have the highest probability of being market beaters. But as of the end of 1996, and under the assumption that 1 in 5,000 can outperform, just five such managers, or teams, had funds that beat their benchmarks by wide-enough margins to make them worth betting on.
Only one manager or team that made this cut through 1996 is still managing the same fund: Ralph Wanger and Charles P. McQuaid of the Acorn Fund, although Terance M. Hogan, who was also a co-manager at the time, has left the fund. Those who are no longer managing the funds cited in the study are Stephen A. Lieber, formerly of the Evergreen Fund, Charles Albers of Guardian Park Avenue, Shelby Davis of Davis New York Venture and Robert A. Lange of Lindner Growth.
As in the coin example, of course, we will never know with certainty that these few select managers really have market-beating ability -- no matter how many years they have been managing money and by how much they have outperformed the market. But the probabilities make it irrational not to bet on them, the study argues.
Deciding how much to invest with a particular manager depends, in part, on the margin by which he has beaten the index.
Before making that choice, consider what happens if you pick a manager who, despite a stellar track record, turns out to be unable to beat a relevant index going forward. It is not unreasonable to expect that his stock picks will be no better or worse than random. This means that his performance over time should match the market's before expenses, and lag behind it by an average of one and a half percentage points a year after expenses and transaction costs.
Contrast that with the potential advantage of investing with a manager who can beat the market by three percentage points or more a year. To simplify a large part of the authors' study, so long as there is greater than a 1-in-3 chance that she can do so, it makes sense to invest with her rather than with an index fund.
The authors, however, did not take taxes into account, so it is impossible to know whether any managers would "survive" their Bayesian analysis after accounting for the tax implications of trading. So it makes sense to use actively managed funds only for your tax-deferred accounts.
BUT how much of those tax-deferred assets should you invest with the best fund managers? It depends on how pessimistic you are about the probability that managers, in general, have the ability to beat their benchmarks. If you assume, for example, that only 1 in 5,000 fund managers can do so, you should invest at least two-thirds of your equity portfolio in the long-term, market-beating, actively managed winners, according to the study. If you assume that the ratio is 1 in 1,000, the case in favor of investing in the very top actively managed funds becomes so compelling that you should put all your equity position in them. Unfortunately, there are not enough statistical data to decide which assumption is more valid.
So score one for active fund management. But remember that this good news applies to very few managers -- those who can pass the rigorous testing, and who in most cases have been managing for a long time. The authors found that it makes no sense to invest in the vast majority of actively managed funds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Thomas Bayes -- said by some academics to be depicted in this drawing -- developed a type of statistical analysis in the 18th century.
 
Chart: "Got Talent?"
According to a study of performance through 1996, just five fund managers or management teams beat their benchmarks by wide-enough margins to make them worthwhile for investors, based on statistical probability. Only one team still manages the same fund -- Ralph Wanger and Charles P. McQuaid of the Acorn Fund --- although Terance M. Hogan, who was also a co-manager at the time, has left.
 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER(S): Shelby Davis
SINCE: March 1969
FUND: Davis New York Venture
OUTPERFORMANCE OF BENCHMARK: 4.1 Percentage points
 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER(S): Ralph Wanger, Charles P. McQuaid and Terance M. Hogan
SINCE: July 1970
FUND: Acorn Fund
OUTPERFORMANCE OF BENCHMARK: 3.4 Percentage points
 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER(S): Stephen A. Lieber
SINCE: Nov. 1971
FUND: Evergreen Fund
OUTPERFORMANCE OF BENCHMARK: 3.2 Percentage points
 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER(S): Robert A. Lange
SINCE: July 1977
FUND: Lindner Growth
OUTPERFORMANCE OF BENCHMARK: 3.2 Percentage points
 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER(S): Charles Albers
SINCE: July 1972
FUND: Guardian Park Avenue
OUTPERFORMANCE OF BENCHMARK: 2.9 Percentage points
(Source:Should Investors Avoid All Actively Managed Mutual Funds? A Study in Bayesian Performance Evaluation,by Klaas Baks, Andrew Metrick and Jessica Wachter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INDEX FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); INDEX FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); BONDS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: BAYES, THOMAS (REV); BAKS, KLAAS; METRICK, ANDREW; WACHTER, JESSICA; HULBERT, MARK ANDREW METRICK (59%); JESSICA WACHTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



225 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
NoLonger Also-Rans, Overseas Stocks Surpass U.S. Brethren

BYLINE: By JOANNE LEGOMSKY 

 BODY:
SOME managers of international funds are beginning to remember what winning feels like. But just barely.
For the third quarter, international stock funds -- which have by and large lagged behind their domestic counterparts in recent years -- managed a relatively slim, 2.06 percent gain, on average, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. But that was more than enough to beat the average United States diversified stock fund, which was down 5.08 percent. 
 The success of the international equity funds stems largely from the resurgence of two sectors -- Japanese stocks and gold-mining issues -- that have been thrashed soundly for most of this decade. The stocks of Japanese companies have risen this year on perceptions that Japan's long-suffering economy has at least bottomed out. While the Nikkei 225 index rose just 2.8 percent in the quarter, the strengthening yen magnified the effect for United States funds that invest in Japan.
And shares of the gold-mining companies rallied in the last week of the quarter, after European central banks announced that they would limit their sales of the metal for the next five years. The price of gold rose 11 percent, to $299 an ounce, between the Sept. 26 announcement and the end of the quarter.
(Morningstar considers precious-metals funds to be international stock funds because of their high percentage of foreign gold stocks.)
Three managers of top-performing funds that invest abroad discussed the stocks that made their funds winners this quarter and -- in light of the heady run -- what they expect in the future.
 
A New Era for Japan
The Japan Fund, with 92 percent of its $840.9 million in assets in its namesake country, returned 29.5 percent for the quarter, earning it the No. 5 spot on the list of 712 international stock funds tracked by Morningstar. The fund, the oldest Japanese stock fund, returned 121.3 percent for the 12-month period, though just 7.2 percent annualized over five years.
Its lead manager, Seung K. Kwak, 38, says he tries to capture the extra return between other investors' short-term valuation of a stock and his own assessment of the value three to four years in the future.
NTT Mobile Communications Network, Japan's dominant cellular phone operator, was among the fund's biggest winners in the quarter. Mr. Kwak bought shares at their initial offering last October at 780,000 yen ($6,619) each. He said NTT Mobile, which has a leading proprietary system for the transmission of wireless data, has a lock on that market in Japan and huge potential to grow elsewhere in Asia. The shares closed at 2.1 million yen ($19,828), on Sept. 30, up 28 percent for the quarter.
Another winner in the portfolio was Fuji Bank, which rose 52.4 percent. Mr. Kwak said the company's planned merger with the Industrial Bank of Japan and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, announced in August, would bring economies of scale. "It was one of the loser banks," Mr. Kwak said, adding that the stock also received a lift from an infusion of Government funds in March and has reduced exposure to bad debts -- most of which were related to a weak company in its keiretsu, or business network.
Despite the market's run-up, Mr. Kwak said, Japanese stocks are still cheap relative to their underlying assets, sales and cash flow. The prevailing high price-to-earnings ratio -- 49 at the end of the quarter -- is a relic of management's historical fixation on revenue growth at the expense of profit margins, he said.
"Today, Japanese companies are being managed for the bottom line," he said. "We are in the early stages of a new era of modernization comparable to the Meiji era at the turn of the century."
 
Going for the Gold
The announcement by the central banks, along with their reiteration of the value of gold as a reserve asset, was music to the ears of Bill Martin, portfolio manager of the $275 million American Century Global Gold fund.
"New age investors view gold as a wasting asset that has no place in their portfolios," he said.
Mr. Martin, 35, said his fund, which ranked No. 6 among international funds in the quarter with a 28.9 percent return, is almost fully invested in gold stocks. But within the sector, he tries to keep the fund diversified along three lines. The portfolio is spread out geographically, with 60 percent in North American, 20 percent in South African and 20 percent in Australian stocks. It has a mix of low- and high-cost producers. And it includes companies with different strategies for hedging, which locks in future prices. (Such strategies tend to be very fluid.)
The fund gained 5.3 percent in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, though it has an annualized five-year loss of 11.8 percent.
Last quarter, its best performers were high-cost operators.
One of his holdings, Anglogold Ltd. of Johannesburg, rose 45.4 percent in the quarter. Mines in South Africa tend to be deep, so labor costs are high. Anglogold's average production cost is more than $200 an ounce, Mr. Martin said. So when the price of gold rose, its gross margins almost doubled.
He also invested in Battle Mountain Gold, based in Houston. The stock rose 30.8 percent in the quarter, to $3.1875. "The company has a lot of proven and probable reserves that become economic to mine with gold at $300" an ounce, Mr. Martin said. Such small gold stocks usually trade at a more modest premium to their net asset value than their larger-capitalization counterparts, but Mr. Martin said that the gap narrowed during the recent run-up in gold prices.
Another company in his portfolio, Newmont Mining, the global gold miner based in Denver, rose 30.4 percent last quarter. Also a high-cost producer, it should benefit from increasing output at a year-old Indonesian mine, Mr. Miller said.
Looking forward, he said that he was "neutral to bullish" on gold. Though he said that it was too early to guess where the price was headed, he thought it was unlikely to drop below $280 an ounce for at least the next year. He said he was keeping an eye on what he considered the two main near-term determinants of gold prices. First is the extent of "short covering," or the purchase of gold to pay back gold that was previously borrowed, either by producers as part of their hedging strategies or by speculators. The second is the demand for $300-an-ounce gold, especially among jewelers, during the pre-Christmas buying period.
 
Playing the Sector Game
"The way the world does business is changing," said Loretta Morris, 46, co-manager of the $99 million Nicholas-Applegate International Small Cap Growth fund, the No. 19 international fund for the quarter. "There are a lot of great growth stories outside the U.S."
Ms. Morris is mostly invested in Continental Europe and Britain (about 50 percent of the portfolio) and Asia (40 percent), the bulk of that in Japan. But she said she focuses more on sectors and industries than on country weightings. Her current emphasis is on service companies (about 27 percent of the portfolio), which are consolidating, and technology (23 percent).
The fund returned 19.1 percent last quarter, 73.2 percent for the 12 months ended Sept. 30 and 22.3 percent annualized over five years.
Among the retailers Ms. Morris likes are two Japanese category-killers: Kojima, which sells discounted consumer electronics and appliances, and Fast Retailing, an American-style apparel discounter. Both are benefiting from increased consumer attention to pricing, Ms. Morris said. Their stocks rose 42.9 percent and 62.3 percent, respectively, in the quarter.
Ms. Morris has also made money in Havas Advertising of France, Europe's second-largest advertising company. Its shares were up 7.7 percent in the quarter. She thinks the same forces that have powered the growth in ad spending in the United States are in place overseas: an increasing emphasis on product branding, rising expenditures by Internet and cellular telephone companies, and millennium-related promotions.
Those trends also helped lift another of her stocks, M6-Metropole Television, a French TV broadcaster, whose shares rose 14.8 percent in the quarter. Like the WB Network in the United States, M6 has the concentration of young viewers that advertisers love, Ms. Morris said.
She expects pending regulations that limit ad time on Government-owned stations to push ad rates higher for publicly held broadcasters.
Ms. Morris also bought the American depository receipts of Internet Initiative Japan, an Internet service company, at its August initial offering at $23 each. They were up 104.4 percent as of Sept. 30.
Still, Ms. Morris said she was paring holdings in Japan a bit, largely because of the price run-up, and adding more in Europe.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seung K. Kwak manages the Japan Fund, up 121.3 percent in the 12 months through Sept. 30. Japanese stocks in general have surged. (Stuart Isett/Sygma, for The New York Times); Gold-mining issues have been thrashed soundly for most of the 1990's, but their recent resurgence contributed to the success of international equity funds last quarter. South African miners, above, drill into a rock face. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (84%); NDCM (LSE) (72%); DCM (NYSE) (72%); 9437 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (78%); SOUTH AFRICA (71%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); NTT DOCOMO INC (72%); JAPAN FUND (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (78%); SOUTH AFRICA (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (84%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BONDS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); GOLD MINING (75%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); MINES & MINING (70%); JAPANESE YEN (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: LEGOMSKY, JOANNE SEUNG K KWAK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



226 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Swimming Against an Ebb Tide

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
IT was a lackluster, disappointing third quarter for most mutual funds, but there were notable exceptions -- many of them helped by investments in innovative companies in the telecommunications, semiconductor and biotechnology industries. And smaller growth stocks in general outpaced bigger, value-oriented issues in the three months ended Sept. 30, helping those funds that tilted in that direction.
Here, stock-pickers of three top-performing funds for the quarter look back at what made their funds such standouts -- and offer a glance ahead. 

A Disciple of Growth
New technology created the winners in the $145.2 million Strong Enterprise fund, a mid-cap growth fund. It returned 19.5 percent for the quarter, taking the No. 1 place among domestic diversified equity funds. "We try to identify the leading companies in rapidly growing industries," said its manager, Andrew S. Cupps, 29, "companies that can capitalize on opportunities in a changing world."
One of his biggest winners was Sandisk of Sunnyvale, Calif., which makes what is in effect the film used in digital cameras -- the chips on which images are stored. Two million digital cameras have been sold since their commercial introduction in 1998, said Mr. Cupps, adding that sales of 28 million units are forecast for 2002 -- "and every one goes out with a Sandisk chip."
The company, he added, also makes chips that enable portable music players like the next-generation Sony Walkman -- due in January -- to play music downloaded from the Internet.
"There was no market at all for these several months ago," Mr. Cupps said, "and now they should sell several million units." Sandisk, whose stock rose 44.9 percent in the quarter, also makes chips that are built into personal digital assistants designed by Compaq Computer and Hewlett-Packard, he said.
Another winning stock was Broadvision, of Redwood City, Calif., a maker of software for companies doing business on the Internet. Its stock rose 80.4 percent in the quarter. Broadvision software lets companies like American Airlines offer personalized Web sites, Mr. Cupps said, by helping them identify individual customers and then offering special deals geared to their spending patterns.
He also made money in Millennium Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company in Cambridge, Mass., that specializes in genomics. Its stock rose 80.6 percent in the quarter. The company's research on human genes "can help pharmaceutical companies discover drugs more quickly and in a more targeted fashion," Mr. Cupps said. Millennium is currently focusing on the genetic roots of obesity.
Looking ahead, he remains optimistic. "A small group of big technology stocks and next-generation stocks have been very strong, but a whole generation of software stocks are down because of Y2K and other concerns." he said, adding that the market could resume its upward move "if the economy slows down, and there's some indication that this is happening."
 
A Monster Bet on Chips
How did the $265.1 million Northstar Special fund, a small growth fund, earn its No. 5 place among domestic diversified equity funds for the quarter? Through investments in semiconductor stocks, which made up 20 percent of the fund's portfolio, and contributed mightily to its 17.4 percent return.
"Semiconductor companies are secular growth vehicles that went through a slowdown last year, partly because of the Asian crisis and global recession, and began to come out of it this spring," said the fund's manager, Mary Lisanti, 43. "What's helping now is the strong demand for personal computers because of the Internet, cheap PC pricing and personal digital assistants."
One of her biggest winners was PMC-Sierra, a Burnaby, British Columbia, manufacturer of semiconductors used in telecommunications equipment; its stock rose 56.9 percent. The company is highly profitable and is "always considered one of the class acts in the business," Ms. Lisanti said, adding that it weathered the recent downturn better than most of its competitors did. "It's a value-added player as opposed to a commodity provider," she said, because of the specialized nature of its chips.
Another hit was Harmonic Inc., a Sunnyvale, Calif., company that makes fiber optic systems for delivering voice, data and video over cable satellites and wireless networks. The company, whose stock rose 127.7 percent in the quarter, uses a technology called wave division multiplexing that lets it expand fiber capacity by splitting light waves. "It allows you to make a 2-lane road into a 10-lane road," Ms. Lisanti said.
She also made money in Applied Micro Circuits, a San Diego designer and maker of semiconductors used in broadband communications. "It has leading-edge chip-manufacturing technology that it developed for the military, which always sent tons of data around the world," she said. "Now they're producing it commercially at a competitive cost."
The stock rose 38.6 percent in the quarter.
What's ahead for the market? "This year is the exact opposite of last year, when you wanted to own the big safe havens," Ms. Lisanti said. "Now you want the opposite -- more industrially oriented companies, to benefit from the economic recovery overseas."
She expects an inflation rate in the 2 to 3 percent range through year-end and long-term interest rates of 6 to 7 percent.
 
Thinking Small, Really Small
"We try to identify the most dynamic companies in the microcap universe that are also exhibiting above-average relative price strength," said Tom Callan, 39, co-manager with Bill Wykle, 62, of the $141.9 million Blackrock Microcap Equity Portfolio. In the third quarter, he found those stocks among emerging biotechnology and wireless communications companies.
The fund returned 17.7 percent in the quarter, earning it the No. 4 place among domestic diversified equity funds.
Among his biggest winners was United Therapeutics, a biotechnology company in Silver Spring, Md., that produces UT-15, a new version of a hypertension drug. UT-15 is administered intravenously, using a tiny portable pump instead of the awkward refrigeration unit that its predecessor required, Mr. Callan said. "It's a big step up in ease of delivery," he added. He originally bought shares in the June initial public offering. The stock was up 143.2 percent for the quarter.
He also made money in Trimeris, a Durham, N.C., company that is developing a new class of AIDS drug, called T-20, that blocks the H.I.V. virus from entering T-cells, Mr. Callan said, adding that it can be used when combination therapies and protease inhibitors are ineffective. The stock was up 15.1 percent for the quarter.
Another winner was Price Communications, a New York company that provides wireless service, mainly in Georgia and the rural South, and which benefited from accelerating growth in its number of subscribers. "The average revenue per user has remained stable, even though rates have dropped dramatically across the board," added Michael Carey, 30, a co-manager of the fund. The stock rose 75.4 percent in the quarter.
As for the future, "the market is trying to find a new level of equilibrium," Mr. Callan said. He is cautiously upbeat. "In the best-case scenario," he said, "third-quarter earnings, which should be strong, will dominate the news and that should lead a rally through year-end."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Callan, a co-manager of Blackrock Microcap Equity, says he scours the world of microcaps for "the most dynamic companies." (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times); "This year is the exact opposite of last year, when you wanted to own the big safe havens," said Mary Lisanti, who manages Northstar Special. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times); Andrew S. Cupps, manager of the Strong Enterprise fund, looks for leaders in growing industries, "companies that can capitalize on opportunities in a changing world." Last quarter, he found winners in new technology. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (67%); MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (87%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); BONDS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (69%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (64%); GENOMICS (64%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (61%); 

PERSON: CUPPS, ANDREW S; LISANTI, MARY; WYKLE, BILL; GOULD, CAROLE ANDREW S CUPPS (82%); MARY LISANTI (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



227 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Immigrants Build A Bridge of Barrels

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL BESHKIN 

 BODY:
WHEN Robert Peterkin finds himself with an extra $100, he spends it on two pairs of sneakers he'll never wear. Instead, he puts them aside until he gathers other household items -- rice, macaroni, underwear, combs, shoes. Then he packs it all in a four-foot-deep barrel to ship to the wife and four children he left in Haiti 10 years ago.
Like many of the Caribbean immigrants in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, Mr. Peterkin buys a little extra each time he goes shopping -- a few cans of soup when the supermarket has a special, some school dresses when the back-to-school sales start -- until he has a barrel filled. People from countries like Haiti, where the unemployment rate is 70 percent, or Jamaica, where inflation hit 10 percent in 1998, say their families and friends depend heavily on goods sent from Crown Heights, Richmond Hill and Jamaica in Queens, and other Caribbean communities in the city. 
 All along Nostrand Avenue in the heart of Crown Heights, small storefront companies specialize in shipping to countries in and around the Caribbean. They'll ship anything -- washing machines, refrigerators -- but the bulk of their business comes from "single-barrel customers," people who send life's everyday necessities to folks back home.
To the single-barrel customer, every piece of cargo is precious, said Lawrence Medas, treasurer of the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry and owner of Medas Moving Overseas Shipping in Crown Heights.
"When you look at a barrel, sometimes you have a very sad feeling," Mr. Medas said. "It's not just a barrel that's being sent. It's the feelings, the sentiments. Sometimes a single parent comes here and they've left their family back home."
The barrels are filled with hard work, too. "People know that they're not a resident and they take advantage of them with the amount of hours and days they make them work," Mr. Medas continued. "When they hand you a barrel they say: 'This I'm sending to my children. Take good care of it.' "
The barrels, which are extremely durable, range in size. Those most commonly shipped are the super jumbos, which stand nearly four feet tall and two feet around and can hold up to 500 pounds.
The barrels cost $16 to $25, depending on size. The shipping cost is also relatively low. The storefront companies hire carriers to send the barrels by ship, and the carriers set their prices according to how many pieces they are transporting, rather than by weight. The shipping cost of a 500-pound barrel is no more than that of a 50-pound barrel, around $60. Both will make it to, say, Jamaica in two weeks.
United Parcel Service will send packages door-to-door to Jamaica in two business days, while most of the Crown Heights carriers require pickup at the receiving end. But U.P.S. will ship no more than 150 pounds to Jamaica, and the cost, $645, is prohibitive for many.
But, while the shipping and the barrels may be inexpensive, buying their contents may take a while.
"People I know, it takes them three or four months to fill a barrel," said Benfield Munroe, executive director of the Nostrand Avenue Merchants Association. "Every week they buy a little bit and a little bit until the barrel is filled." Mr. Munroe said many people start packing barrels in the summer in preparation for Christmas.
Mr. Peterkin happens to work at Medas Moving Overseas Shipping, so Mr. Medas lets him ship barrels home at a discount. Still, he combs the bargain stores on 14th Street in Manhattan. "I go shopping and I want that thing, but I buy something for them," Mr. Peterkin said. He says it takes him eight months to fill three barrels.
In late July, Milien Laurent had a barrel almost ready to go, standing in the corner of the cluttered ground floor of a building he owns on Nostrand Avenue. Visible on top were a package of pinto beans, a bag of rice and a can with a Polish ham. Deeper down, he said, were cans of condensed milk and packages of candy.
When he had enough money in mid-September, Mr. Laurent had one of the neighborhood storefront companies pick it up -- most will do so at no extra charge -- and send it on to his friends in Haiti.
"I don't have money to buy food, but I try to buy food to send to them," Mr. Laurent said. "When you tell me you're hungry and I don't have nothing to give you, it makes me sick." With inflation in Haiti still high, Mr. Laurent finds, he can stretch his dollar further by sending goods rather than cash.
There are tricks to filling the barrels. "I have an eye for bargains," said Vera Weekes, outreach coordinator at the Caribbean Research Center at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. "For instance," she said, "the other day Pathmark had soap for 99 cents. They were three in a packet. All week long I'm in Pathmark buying up the soap."
Ms. Weekes is busy filling two barrels to send to residents of Montserrat, her native island in the Caribbean, which was devastated by a volcanic eruption in 1997.
In many cases, the barrels do not meet any dire need, but they are appreciated just the same. People often stock them with little niceties; one man said his relatives in Trinidad wanted Tommy Hilfiger perfume. Such luxuries may be affordable here but too expensive, or just unavailable, abroad.
Ms. Weekes said that when she was growing up in Montserrat, her aunt used to send just such gifts to her family in trunks from New York at Christmas.
She remembers getting processed foods; Uncle Ben's rice and refined flour were favorites, she said. But, she said, "I was more excited about the clothes and shoes than anything else."
Just like Ms. Weekes, many people who now ship barrels remember with pleasure being on the receiving end many years ago.
People who know the Caribbean well say that while sending goods back may be a hardship, it is largely expected of those living in the United States.
"They take it as second nature that you're supposed to send stuff back home," Mr. Munroe said.
Also, he said, Caribbean immigrants often do not want to admit to people back home that things are not as easy in New York as they thought they would be.
"Most people don't have a perception of America until they get here, regardless of how much they have their finger on the pulse of the U.S.," Mr. Munroe said. But however surprised they are, they want to be perceived as successful.
"You want people to know at home," Mr. Munroe said, "that you're doing better than you did when you were there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It's not just a barrel that's being sent," says Lawrence Medas, owner of a Brooklyn shipping business. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "CARGO: Help for Home"
Laparkan Trading Ltd. of Brooklyn is one of the companies that help immigrants in the city ship food, clothes and other goods to people back home. Here is the number of barrels -- the package of choice, usually weighing a few hundred pounds -- that it sends yearly to some popular destinations.
 
Kingston or Montego Bay, Jamaica -- 13,000 barrels
 
Georgetown, Guyana -- 10,000 barrels
 
Port of Spain or Point Lisas, Trinidad -- 7,000 barrels
 
Bridgetown, Barbados -- 5,000 barrels

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); BARBADOS (77%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (57%); GUYANA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CARIBBEAN AREA; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); BARBADOS (77%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (57%); GUYANA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CARIBBEAN-AMERICANS CHILDREN (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FAMILY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); 

PERSON: BESHKIN, ABIGAIL ROBERT PETERKIN (70%); LAWRENCE MEDAS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



228 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS/INVESTING;
JunkBonds Are Quickly In a Crunch

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
SATURDAY mornings have become a little ho-hum for Tim O'Hara at the Golden Pear coffee shop in Bridgehampton, N.Y.
Mr. O'Hara, managing director and global head of the high-yield bond group at Credit Suisse First Boston, regularly runs into clients there who are picking up cups of coffee. But these days, his clients are glum. Money is getting harder for them to borrow, they tell him. And when they can get it, it is more expensive. 
 Such is the life these days of leveraged-buyout financiers -- that is, the group of Wall Street investors who borrow money to buy troubled companies with the hope of shoring them up and selling them later for a profit. The willingness of lenders to provide money for these deals at reasonable rates is dwindling. And that is affecting these financiers' ability to buy companies.
"They're waiting until next year," Mr. O'Hara said of the clients whose high-yield bond issues he underwrites. "They're not anxious to spend a lot of money."
Why the current crunch? For most leveraged-buyout specialists, trouble began last July when Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned that the central bank would be willing to put the brakes on the economy by raising interest rates and tightening the supply of money available to borrowers. That sent a chill through mutual fund investors in high-yield, or junk, bonds. They began pulling their money out of the funds that specialize in such investments. As the pool of money to lend contracted, interest rates on junk bonds rose two to three percentage points, from roughly 9 to 11 percent to 12 to 14 percent, depending on the bond.
That is making it more expensive for leveraged-buyout financiers to borrow money. And to complicate matters, Mr. O'Hara said, some lenders are not only demanding higher interest rates, but are also asking for an equity stake of as much as 5 percent in smaller companies involved in buyout deals. That makes borrowing money an even more expensive proposition for the leveraged-buyout financiers, because it means sharing part of their ultimate profit with the lenders.
"Now they are forced to use money of their own, instead of borrowing it," said Kingman Penniman, president of KDP Investment Advisers in Montpelier, Vt. "They don't want to do that, or worse, give away a big piece of the company they are trying to buy."
What market watchers like Mr. Penniman have seen is the widening of the spread, or the difference between yields on high-yield bonds and on Treasury bonds. On April 30, Mr. Penniman said, 10-year Treasuries were yielding 5.35 percent, while an index of high-yield bonds averaged 9.11 percent -- a spread of 3.76 percentage points. By Friday, the spread had widened by nearly a full percentage point, to 4.67, with the high-yield index averaging 10.7 percent, compared with 6.03 percent on 10-year Treasuries.
"We've only seen spreads this wide for a short time, during the Russian default and the hedge fund debacle of last year," Mr. Penniman said. "It's way above what we've experienced historically."
Other concerns seem to be adding to the market nervousness, notably the fears that Year 2000 computer glitches will cause market disruptions that will play out detrimentally for bonds and bond holders. The validity of those fears remains unclear, though some lenders have warned customers that it will be difficult to finance highly leveraged transactions near the end of the year. "When people talk about Y2K, I look at the equity markets and I think, why aren't they concerned?" Mr. Penniman said.
To add to that, the default rate on junk bonds is climbing and is now running ahead of last year's rate, further dampening investor interest. As a result, bond investors are pouring their money primarily into the market for higher-quality bonds that offer more safety.
IN the short term, smaller buyout shops will suffer the most. Banks and other lenders have already put some of these customers on notice. One leveraged-buyout professional, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he got a call last week from an executive at a large lending institution, who told him that the bank was already winnowing its list of "preferred" clients. (His company was still on the preferred list, he said.)
By contrast, well-known and respected buyout financiers like Clayton, Dubilier & Rice are the least likely to be affected. "The situation six months ago was that you could have lesser-known companies get things done," said Bill Barbe, a partner at Clayton, Dubilier. "But now that is not as easy." As a result, Mr. Barbe added, "what will drive the market is quality transactions of size."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bearish on Junk" plots the weekly money flow for high-yield corporate bonds, from Oct. 1998 through Oct. 1999. (Source: AMG Data Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (69%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); VERMONT, USA (69%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES HIGH YIELD BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



229 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
A Gloomy View of Immigration

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
FROM Mississippi to Minnesota these days, there's hardly a heartland city without a Peruvian restaurant, West African hair-braiding place or Korean green grocer. Asians are now the country's fastest-growing ethnic minority group. Hispanic people will soon be the biggest one, outnumbering African-Americans by a wide margin. Nearly one in five children born today has at least one foreign-born parent.
America's "second great migration" has prompted as much controversy as the first, which brought millions of Europeans to Ellis Island. Are immigrants one reason that America's economy has been the world's most vibrant for nearly two decades? Or are they to blame for the stagnant wages of America's unskilled workers and the growing gap between haves and have-nots? Are the newcomers models of hard work, thrift and old-fashioned family values, or deadbeats who evade taxes and collect welfare? Will their children and grandchildren join the economic mainstream or wind up in the underclass? 
 There are no cut and dried answers. But for an impressively researched, brightly written and tightly argued polemic against America's current liberal immigration policy, look at "Heaven's Door: Immigration Policy and the American Economy" (Princeton University Press, 1999) by George J. Borjas, one the nation's leading -- and certainly gloomiest -- experts on immigration.
Mr. Borjas himself is a shining example of the classic immigrant rags to riches story. A refugee from Cuba who grew up in a Miami ghetto, he wound up with an Ivy League education and today holds a Harvard professorship. But in "Heaven's Door," Professor Borjas calls for sharply restricting the number of future immigrants, especially those who, as his own family was in the early 60's, are poor, unskilled and uneducated. "My family would never have been able to pass the test that I think would best serve the interests of the United States," he writes. "There were no college graduates in my family, no wealth to prove that we would not become public charges, no particular skills that would seem urgently needed."
Since the 60's, as Professor Borjas tells it, family ties rather than education, skills or national origin have determined which foreigners get to pursue the American dream. As a result, two-thirds of the recent arrivals have come from Latin America and Asia. Four out of 10 wind up in the bottom one-fifth of the income distribution. And, by the late 1990's, the average new arrival had two fewer years of schooling than the average native-born American. In contrast, 30 years ago, most immigrants came from Europe, and the average newcomer was ahead in education.
Mr. Borjas acknowledges that, despite a "precipitous decline" in average skills, immigration is keeping an aging work force younger than it would otherwise be, and has, on the whole, been good for the economy. Unskilled immigrants provide employers with bargain-priced labor and provide middle-class consumers with bargain-priced services from baby-sitting to nursing-home care.
But, reflecting a growing unease among economists over inequality, he argues that while immigration has increased the total economic pie modestly, the far more significant effect has been to depress opportunity and pay for the most disadvantaged native-born workers, especially African-Americans. "The central issue in the debate therefore," he says, "is not whether immigration increases the size of the economic pie; it is about how the pie is split."
Perhaps. But immigration has not been a major reason that wages at the bottom have stagnated for more than two decades. Rather, the computer age has rewarded the college-educated and punished high school dropouts. Further, Mr. Borjas is overly jaundiced in his views. He scarcely acknowledges that unemployment is at a 30-year low, that poverty is at an all-time low while typical family income is at a record, or that bottom-rung wages have lately been rising briskly. True, the pay of low-wage native workers would no doubt have risen even sooner and faster absent immigration, but the extra supply of willing labor has also helped keep inflation at bay and therefore allowed the economic expansion to keep rolling.
FURTHER, Mr. Borjas argues that the sheer number and concentration of immigrants are creating the same ghetto effect that has marginalized inner-city blacks. But immigrants have lately been fanning out all over the country.
The education gap is real, and Mr. Borjas is probably right in concluding that it will take several generations to erase. But he plays down some of recent immigrants' strengths -- strong family ties and a super work ethic -- that augur well for upward mobility. Hispanics have employment rates nearly as high as whites, and, as a 1998 study showed, second-generation children have higher grades and lower dropout rates than other American children.
Few people, even the most ardent free marketeers, would argue that America should open its doors to every third-world citizen who wants to emigrate. Immigration confers permanent and scarce political and economic rights. But the case for cutting immigration in half and largely limiting it, as some countries do, to the well heeled and well educated is not nearly so economically -- much less morally or politically -- compelling as Mr. Borjas would have you believe.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "WHAT THEY'RE READING"
 
COMPILED BY ALISA TANG
 
Luke Szymczak, 36
Communications equipment analyst at Prudential Securities.
BOOK -- "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan," by Edmund Morris
WHY -- "There aren't a lot of personal portraits of him, and Morris had excellent access. It's hard to separate the fiction from the reality, which is not what one would want in a biography. People waited 10 years for this story, and it appears that we're getting something between a cartoon strip and a sitcom."
 
Fernando J. Espuelas, 33
Chairman and chief executive of Starmedia, an on-line network for Spanish and Portuguese speakers.
BOOK -- "Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies," by Jared Diamond (1997)
WHY -- "This book answers many of the why's of history - why did our cultures and societies take their shape? Why and how were the patterns of history set 15,000 years ago?"
 
Debra J. Chrapaty, 38
President of E*Trade Group's technologies division.
BOOK -- "Memoirs of a Geisha," by Arthur S. Golden (1997)
WHY -- "To gain some cultural insight without leaving Silicon Valley."
 
Ryan Jacob, 30
Chairman of Jacob Asset Management, an investment advisory firm that focuses on Internet-related investments, and former portfolio manager of the Internet Fund.
BOOK -- "A Prayer for the City," by Buzz Bissinger (1997)
WHY -- "I'm a transplanted Philadelphian rather than a hard- core New Yorker. The author shadowed the Mayor during his term and gave a wonderful insight on the day-to-day activities of the mayor of a big city, especially one as diverse as Philadelphia, which is small enough to have a home-town feel, but large enough to have various strata."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HEAVEN'S DOOR CORP (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REVIEWS IMMIGRATION (93%); CHILDREN (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REFUGEES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TAX FRAUD (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); LITERATURE (63%); 

PERSON: BORJAS, GEORGE J; NASAR, SYLVIA GEORGE J BORJAS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



230 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Why Higher Interest Rates Haven't Fazed Auto Makers

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
WHENEVER the Federal Reserve raises short-term interest rates or even hints that it might do so, as it did on Tuesday -- economists issue warnings about the consequences for rate-sensitive industries, notably automobiles and housing.
Yet, despite two quarter-point rate increases over the summer, the auto industry is thriving. August and September were among the best months ever for auto sales. The 1999 model year, which ended on Sept. 30, broke a sales record set in 1986. 
 Part of the industry's continued strength may indicate that rate increases are just slow to have an effect. But some economists are saying that the spread of retail incentives and leasing, and the aggressiveness with which manufacturers are using them, are allowing the industry to minimize the effects of interest rate increases -- at least for a while, and as long as the increases are fairly small.
"Car sales are not anywhere near as sensitive to interest rates as they once were," said Cynthia Latta, the principal United States economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, "because manufacturers will do anything to 'move the metal,' as they say in the industry."
Richard Curtin, the director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan, said the rate increases last summer have had no apparent effect on the public's interest in buying new cars and light trucks.
"It's clear from our data that the entire impact of the recent rate increases has been on the housing market," he said. "While we would normally say that interest rate changes affect rate-sensitive sectors of the economy, that has narrowed greatly."
Auto makers softened the blow from rising interest rates during the summer, mainly by using their auto financing subsidiaries to subsidize new car loans and leases, offering rates as low as zero percent for up to 36 months on some slow-selling car models.
According to the Fed, the average rate for four-year auto loans from banks rose to 8.44 percent in August, the most recent month for which data are available, from 8.30 percent in the second quarter. But the average rate charged by domestic and foreign auto makers for loans of similar maturity fell to 6.28 percent from 6.56 percent over the same period.
Auto makers are also charging about 8.5 percent now for loans on models with no incentives. But they have a much lower average than the banks because of the many subsidized loans.
Of course, subsidizing car loans is expensive for the auto makers. While auto industry profits are high, they would be far higher without them. The rising cost of sales incentives has pulled down the stocks of General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler by 20 to 30 percent since it became clear in early May that the Fed would raise rates.
Manufacturers can afford the incentives, because they are essentially passing along the considerable cost savings they are demanding, and getting, from parts suppliers, said David Bradley, an auto analyst at J. P. Morgan. "The auto makers have stepped in and have cushioned the impact" of rising rates, he added.
Van Bussman, an economist at DaimlerChrysler, said discounts were likely to remain widespread. Despite the auto market's overall strength, no company wants to be the first to accept lower sales and thereby lose market share, he said.
The lending arms of the big domestic and foreign auto makers are in particularly good financial shape right now for a rate war. They borrowed billions of dollars last winter, locking in low rates for long terms. That has left auto loan rates less closely linked than usual to the current rate for two-year Treasury notes, which leaped 11-hundredths of a percentage point last Tuesday, after the Fed's announcement.
The auto industry's rate resilience poses a potential problem for the Fed, which has long followed the industry carefully. The industry accounts for 4 percent of the nation's economic output, and a much higher share of what used to be considered the rate-sensitive portion of the economy. Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation, said the industry's new ability to accept higher rates might require the Fed to raise rates slightly higher or faster than it would have previously to slow the economy.
ALMOST nobody questions that a large rate increase, perhaps a percentage point or more, would still hurt the industry. A big jump would slow growth in incomes and employment while damaging consumer confidence to the point that people would have less interest in buying new automobiles, even with incentives available.
Rate increases can also take as long as a year to affect the economy, so the recent small increases could eventually catch up with the auto industry. Higher rates have already slowed the pace of mortgage refinancings. In recent years, many Americans have been able to take out bigger auto loans because they have refinanced home mortgages, reducing their monthly payments.
Some auto executives, notably at DaimlerChrylser and Ford, have nonetheless been suggesting lately that their companies are no longer truly cyclical, and that they can remain profitable in an economic downturn. But even economists who think that the industry has begun moderating the effects of small rate increases say that such views require considerable optimism.
As Mr. Curtin put it, "It's always at this point in an expansion that an industry proclaims itself recession-proof." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); SALES PROMOTIONS (76%); SALES & SELLING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



231 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Ina Rough Quarter, a Small Victory for Stock-Picking

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
SEISMIC shifts are often imperceptible in the stock market until well after they have taken hold. But 1999 is looking more and more like the year that index mutual funds lost their star quality.
In the third quarter, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.5 percent of its value, while the average United States diversified stock fund had a smaller loss -- 5.08 percent. Not much for active fund managers to crow about, but outperformance nevertheless. 
 And encouragingly, for the first time since the early 1990's, outperformance was the rule, not the exception, among the managers. According to Lipper Inc., more than half -- 57 percent -- beat their market benchmarks in the quarter. For all of 1998, only one-fourth of them did.
Could it be that actual stock-picking will make a comeback among fund managers, who for years made money simply by buying those stocks that had been rising the most? Perhaps. But temper that possibility with this fact: In the most recent quarter, successful stock-picking was confined to just two sectors, technology and precious metals -- a sign that the overall market has been an unrewarding place to invest of late.
Thanks to the desultory market, most stock funds closed out the quarter in negative territory. Specialized stock funds did better than their diversified brethren, losing only 2.28 percent over all in the quarter. But funds that invested in value stocks got hammered, some losing as much as 15 percent.
Only international equity funds managed to show a gain -- 2.06 percent, on average. This was largely attributable to the rebound in Japanese equities.
After years in which the same handful of stocks turned up in the top-performing mutual fund portfolios, the third quarter of 1999 gave investors fresh blood. Of the six stock funds that topped the performance list in the quarter, not one counted Microsoft, Intel, Cisco Systems, Lucent Technologies or America Online as major holdings.
Instead, the top-performing funds in the most recent quarter hold relatively obscure and smaller companies. The biggest holding of the Strong Enterprise fund, a mid-cap growth fund that returned 19.51 percent, the best of all diversified stock funds, is Applied Materials, a familiar name in semiconductors. But its other top stocks include less-known names like PRI Automation, a five-year-old company that helps semiconductor makers automate their factories, and Sandisk, a maker of data storage products. The No. 2 fund, Van Wagoner Emerging Growth, returned 18.46 percent in the quarter. Its largest holding is Com21, a cable modem company.
These holdings reflect the overall market's sole pocket of consistent strength in the quarter -- technology. Christine A. Callies, investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, pointed out that through Sept. 27, technology was the only sector in the S. & P. 500 that had increased in value during the previous 10 weeks. Eight other big sectors, including financial companies, utilities and basic materials makers, deteriorated during that period.
Rising stocks were in a distinct minority. According to Salomon Smith Barney, as of Sept. 28, Nasdaq stocks had declined almost 35 percent, on average, from their 52-week highs. New York Stock Exchange stocks had fallen almost 28 percent, on average, and shares in the S. & P. had dropped by 25 percent.
More alarming, 52.1 percent of Nasdaq stocks were down 30 percent or more from their 52-week highs by Sept. 28, compared with 37.5 percent of Big Board stocks and 33.2 percent of the S. & P. Investors who didn't happen to be in technology stocks felt a lot of this pain.
Only when the price of gold spiked late in September, bringing funds in that sector an average gain of 20.35 percent for the period, did technology stocks get some competition.
SEVERAL developments damaged the overall market during the quarter. The Federal Reserve Board raised interest rates twice over the summer, for a total of half a percentage point. And the weakening of the dollar, particularly against the Japanese yen, coupled with rising commodity prices, raised fears that inflation may recur.
But rather than buying on the market's dips, investors slowed their mutual fund investments as summer drew to a close. Investors put $9.2 billion into stock funds in August, a decline of 25.7 percent from July. And Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services, said September's fund flows were still lower, at $5.5 billion. Mr. Adler said that most of the fresh money was still going into big-capitalization index funds and large-cap growth funds.
The slowdown in flows may indicate that investors are finally growing wary of stocks. Ms. Callies pointed out that in the postwar era, investors make broad shifts in their asset allocations once every 15 years or so. The asset allocation change that began in 1982, with the onset of a bull market in stocks, is now 17 years old. As a result, Ms. Callies speculated that the era of equity investments may be ending.
At the same time that money is flowing less freely into stock funds, mutual funds' cash holdings are low -- by Ms. Callies's reckoning, at 4.8 percent, which she puts at the extreme low end of the long-term range.
As the market indexes have skidded, it is somewhat surprising that managers are not building up cash to protect their portfolios from being hurt by a flood of redemptions. Instead, fund managers may be staying fully invested in stocks to try to jump-start their returns.
If the performance of well-known large-capitalization stocks is beginning to flag, it would fit a pattern -- identified by analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company -- that typically afflicts growth stocks. In short, growth stocks do not remain growth stocks for long.
According to the firm's study, which looked at stocks between 1965 and 1998, only 42 percent of all growth stocks remained hot growers for more than five years, while only 19 percent stayed high-growth for more than 10 years. Over 20 years, only 5 percent of growth stocks kept up their steam.
The hurdles are even higher for technology companies. In that sector, less than one in three growth stocks will remain top-performers for more than five years. Looking out 10 years, the share drops to 11 percent As for 20 years, only 3 percent made the grade.
The firm concluded that technology stocks -- the ones now holding up the market -- were among the least reliable of growth companies.
Despite the pouring of money into technology funds, Mr. Adler of AMG Data Services sees a rising level of caution over all. He pointed to the activity in high-yield corporate bond funds as evidence. "There is an indication in the numbers that an aversion to risk is beginning to evolve among investors," he said.
LAST summer, after the Russian debt default, he added, "high-yield bond funds showed terrific inflows." Not today. In 10 of the last 11 weeks, there have been net redemptions from high-yield bond funds, reflecting investor concern about risk.
"That continuous type of negative activity," Mr. Adler recalled, "has only been experienced twice before" -- when the Federal Reserve raised interest rates in 1994 and in the Russian default.
Of course, bond funds have been hurt by rising interest rates and inflation fears. Only those funds investing in international bonds did well, benefiting mightily from the weaker dollar.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Downdraft"
Almost across the board, investors have been rough on stocks in recent months.
 
Percentage of stocks whose value declined 10 percent or more from 52-week highs, as of Sept. 28.
 
New York Stock Exchange
10 to 20%: 24.3%
20 to 30%: 25.1
More than 30%: 37.5
Total: 86.9%
 
S. & P. 500
10 to 20%: 26.0
20 to 30%: 28.0
More than 30%: 33.2
Total: 87.2
 
Nasdaq
10 to 20%: 19.7
20 to 30%: 18.8
More than 30%: 52.1
Total: 90.6
 
Average decline from 52-week highs of U.S. stocks in each
market-capitalization category, as of Sept. 28.
 
More than $20 billion: -19.5%
$5 billion - $20 billion: -23.4
$2 billion - $5 billion: -25.7
$250 million - $2 billion: -27.1
Less than $250 million: -44.9
(Source: Salomon Smith Barney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (64%); ALU (NYSE) (64%); ALU (BIT) (64%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (70%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (64%); INTEL CORP (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); AOL INC (52%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (85%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (50%); MODEMS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ROBERT ADLER (61%); CHRISTINE A CALLIES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



232 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 6; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 2126 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

Art Party
 
WEDNESDAY -- A dinner and preview of an exhibition at the New York Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, 8 West Eighth Street, will benefit the school, which trains young artists, and the lectures and exhibitions it presents free to the public. The show features drawings by Rodin, Calder, Brancusi, Louise Bourgeois and William Tucker, among others. The evening begins with cocktails at 7 and will include a silent art auction and dancing to Brazilian music beginning at 9. Tickets, $350, or $75 for the dance party alone, from (212) 685-1095.
 
Rita Hayworth Gala
 
WEDNESDAY -- The Broadway singer Jason Raize will perform at the Waldorf-Astoria at this year's Rita Hayworth Gala, benefiting the Alzheimer's Association. Deborah Norville of "Inside Edition" will be the host of the evening, which begins with drinks at 6:30, followed by dinner and dancing. Black tie. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 843-1712. 

Sports Night
 
THURSDAY -- Reggie Jackson, the former Yankee, will be honored, and posthumous salutes will be offered to Catfish Hunter and Joe DiMaggio, among others, at a dinner at the Marriott Marquis benefiting the New York chapter of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association. The organization supports the A.L.S. Clinical Services Center at Beth Israel Medical Center, as well as research to find a cure for A.L.S., or Lou Gehrig's disease. Cocktails and a silent auction of sports memorabilia begin at 6:30, followed by dinner and the awards. Tickets, $750, from (212) 684-1812.
 
The Long Climb
 
THURSDAY -- The International Center for the Disabled, which provides rehabilitation services in New York, will hold an awards ceremony and dinner at the Plaza. Among those honored will be Tom Whittaker, an amputee who climbed to the summit of Mount Everest last year. Cocktails at 6:30 will be followed by dinner, a performance by the Platters and dancing Black tie. Tickets, $500, from (212) 585-6088.
 
Art and Antiques Preview
 
THURSDAY -- A preview of the annual International Fine Art and Antiques Dealers Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory will benefit the Society of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The organization supports research and educational programs at the center. Cocktails and hors d'oeuvres will be served throughout the evening. Tickets, $2,500 for admission at 5:45 P.M., $1,000 for entry at 6, $500 for entry at 6:30 or $200 for admission at 7, from (212) 874-5457.
 
Carole King and Friends
 
THURSDAY -- Boyz II Men, Reba McEntire, Luther Vandross, 98 Degrees and Chrissie Hynde will be among those performing music by Carole King at the Theater at Madison Square Garden. Ms. King will be honored and will perform. The event, marking the 25th anniversary of People magazine, will benefit Communities in Schools, the National Women's Cancer Research Alliance and the Wilderness Society. It will begin with a cocktail reception at 5 at the Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street. The concert is at 7:30, followed by dinner with the performers back at the ballroom. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 245-6570, or $50 for the concert alone, from (212) 307-7171.
 
Games at the Tea Room
 
THURSDAY -- The Children's Blood Foundation will hold a dinner and a night of gaming at the Russian Tea Room to raise money for the expansion of its clinic and laboratories at the Weill Cornell Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital. The foundation supports medical training, research and care for children with blood diseases, immune disorders, cancer or AIDS. The evening begins with a buffet at 6:30. Tickets, $250, from (212) 319-7566.
 
Albright at the Plaza
 
THURSDAY -- Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright will speak at the Plaza at a celebration of the 80th anniversary of the International Institute for Education, which administers the Fulbright scholarship program and helps businesses develop and manage international scholarship and training programs. Dr. Albright will be honored, as will William R. Rhodes, a vice chairman of Citigroup, and Prof. Klaus Schwab, the founder and president of the World Economic Forum. Drinks at 6:30 P.M. will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Black tie. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 685-1095.
 
For Olana's Preservation
 
THURSDAY -- Olana, the residence and studio of the artist Frederic Edwin Church in Hudson, N.Y., is to benefit from a black-tie dinner at the Pierre. E. Virgil Conway, the chairman of the Metropolitan Tranportation Authority, and John Cronin, an organizer of Hudson Riverkeeper, are to be honored for their roles in the Hudson River's renewal. A cocktail reception begins at 7, with dinner and the ceremony to follow at 8. Tickets, $350, from (212) 327-0785.
 
AIDS and Asia
 
THURSDAY -- The Asian and Pacific Islander Coalition on H.I.V./AIDS, which provides information on prevention and treatment and other services to New Yorkers of Asian and Pacific Island descent, will observe its 10th anniversary with a cocktail party at the Roosevelt Hotel, Madison Avenue at 45th Street. George C. Wolfe, the theater director, and Suki Terada Ports, a co-founder of the organization and an advocate for people with H.I.V., will be honored. David Henry Hwang, the playwright, and Cindy Hsu, a news anchor on WCBS-TV, will be the hosts of the event, which begins at 6 P.M. Tickets, $250, from (212) 620-0487.
 
Stuyvesant Ball
 
FRIDAY -- The 18th annual Peter Stuyvesant Ball, at the Waldorf-Astoria, will support the educational and cultural programs of the Netherland-America Foundation, which sponsors Dutch and American charitable efforts and student fellowships. The evening will include an auction that features a Caribbean cruise and two round-trip air tickets to anywhere served by Northwest Airlines. Black tie. A cocktail reception at 6:30 P.M. will be followed by dinner, dancing and a performance by the Marvelettes, the Motown group. At midnight, a disco will open, with breakfast at 1:30 A.M. Tickets, $400, or $175 for entry after 10, from (212) 355-6363.
 
For Homeless Children
 
FRIDAY -- Italian specialties from New York restaurants will be served at a dinner and dance to benefit Boys' Towns and Girls' Town of Italy, which provide food, shelter and education to homeless children in Europe. The evening, which begins at 7 at the Columbus Town House, 8 East 69th Street, will also help provide books at the organization's schools in Rome. Tickets, $100, from (212) 980-8770.
 
Casino Night
 
SATURDAY -- The young professionals committee of the Leukemia Society of America will hold a night of dancing and gaming to support research on leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease and myeloma, and to help patients and their families. The event, at the Racquet and Tennis Club, 370 Park Avenue (52d Street), begins with drinks at 9, followed by a buffet dinner. Black tie. Tickets, $100, from (212) 448-9206, ext. 23, or $125 at the door.
 
For Special Olympians
 
SATURDAY -- A dinner to benefit Manhattan Special Olympics, which trains and supports people with disabilities in competitive athletics, will be held at the Jewel of India, a restaurant at 15 West 44th Street. Cocktails at 7. Tickets, $50, from (212) 869-5544, or $75 at the door.
 
Care for the Elderly
 
OCT. 17 -- Henry A. Kissinger will speak and Barbara Walters will be the host of a dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria celebrating the 82d anniversary of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. The event will honor the organization's longtime leader, the late Jacob Reingold. Cocktails at 6, followed by dinner and dancing to the music of Peter Duchin and his orchestra. Black tie. Tickets, $1,000, from (718) 549-3555.
 
In Support of Victims
 
OCT. 18 -- The author Alice Sebold will read from her new memoir, "Lucky," in support of Victim Services, which assists victims of violence and their families. Linda A. Fairstein, the chief of the sex-crimes unit in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, will introduce the author. The event, at the Eileen Fisher boutique at 395 West Broadway (Spring Street), begins with cocktails at 6:30 P.M. Tickets, $90, from (212) 577-5084 or at the door.
 
Getting Back on Track
 
OCT. 18 -- Education, counseling and career assistance for former prison inmates will benefit from the Fortune Society's second annual awards ceremony, at the Bryant Park Grill. Alton Fitzgerald White, a cast member of "Ragtime," will sing, and Felipe Luciano, a reporter for the Fox-owned Channel 5, will be the master of ceremonies. The event begins with a cocktail reception at 6:30 P.M. Tickets, $125, from (212) 807-1337.
 
For Children's Services
 
OCT. 18 -- An evening of dinner and dancing at Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, will benefit Lakeside Family and Children's Services, which assists abandoned, abused and developmentally disabled children and their families in the New York area. The event begins with a cocktail reception at 6 and a behind-the-scenes tour of the stage and the old disco. A buffet dinner, at which college scholarships will be awarded to three Lakeside clients, will be followed by a show at 9:30 featuring Broadway performers and then dancing. Tickets, $350, or $250 for buffet and the show, or $75 for the show alone, from (212) 460-5755.
 
Tuneful Citizens
 
OCT. 18 -- Jessye Norman, Chita Rivera, and the Boys and Girls Choirs of Harlem will perform along with others, and Gregory Peck, Marian Wright Edelman and Cicely Tyson will be among the speakers at Avery Fisher Hall, at a salute to Lena Horne that will benefit the Citizens Committee for New York City. Ten college scholarships named for Ms. Horne will be awarded to young New Yorkers who have shown outstanding commitment to community service. The event begins at 7 P.M. with a champagne reception and hors d'oeuvres, followed by the show at 8:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 989-0909, ext. 317, or $25 to $75 for the show alone, from (212) 721-6500.
 
Casita Maria at the Plaza
 
OCT. 19 -- Bill Blass and Dr. Oscar Arias, the former President of Costa Rica who won the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize, will be among those honored at a dinner and dance at the Plaza. The event will benefit the Casita Maria settlement houses in East Harlem and the South Bronx. Mario Buatta, the interior designer, will be the master of ceremonies for the black-tie evening. Drinks at 7:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 807-7535.
 
Heart Fund Ball
 
OCT. 19 -- The Children's Heart Fund, which supports education and research on heart defects in children, is holding a ball at the St. Regis to aid the pediatric cardiology division of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Richard J. Golinko, the emeritus chief of the division, will be honored at the black-tie event. The evening begins with drinks at 6:30 and a silent auction, followed by dinner, dancing to the music of N.Y. City Swing and an auction of items including a new Mercedes-Benz and a children's birthday party for 15 at F.A.O. Schwarz. Tickets, $350, from (212) 241-8662.
 
For Human Rights
 
OCT. 19 -- Hina Jilani and Asma Jahangir, sisters and law partners in Pakistan who defend the rights of women, children and religious minorities, will be honored at the annual dinner of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. Tom Brokaw will be the master of ceremonies at the event, which begins with drinks at 6 at Pier 60 in the Chelsea Piers complex and will support the organization's efforts to protect human rights advocates. Kerry Kennedy Cuomo and Sigourney Weaver will be among those presenting awards. Tickets, $500, from (212) 666-5844.
 
For the Smithsonian Archives
 
OCT. 19 -- Items from the private archives of Ellsworth Kelly that have never been on public display, including sketches, photographs and letters, will be on view at a benefit for the Smithsonian Institution's Archives of American Art. The exhibition, at the Archives Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas (51st Street), will continue through Jan. 21. The evening begins at 6:30 with cocktails at the gallery. Dinner, with an award to Mr. Kelly for his contributions to American art, will follow at the University Club at 7:30. Transportation will be provided from the gallery. Black tie. Tickets, $500, from (212) 399-2909.
 
Fashions With Children in Mind
 
OCT. 19 -- A fashion show and dinner will help children served by the Elizabeth W. Pouch Center for Special People, which helps adults and children on Staten Island with developmental disabilities. The evening begins at 6:45, with dinner at 7 and the show at 8:15, all at the Staaten Restaurant, 697 Forest Avenue in West Brighton, Staten Island. Tickets, $50, from (718) 442-2225.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MOUNT EVEREST (78%); HIMALAYAS (78%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (50%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (56%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MOUNT EVEREST (78%); HIMALAYAS (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PAINTING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (87%); SCULPTURE (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); ART DEALERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); THEATER (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (72%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); CANCER (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (69%); MOUNTAINS (68%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (64%); 

PERSON: RITA HAYWORTH (71%); LOUISE BOURGEOIS (58%); DEBORAH ANNE NORVILLE (56%); JOSEPH PAUL 'JOE' DIMAGGIO (55%); MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



233 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
An Entrepreneur's Unlikely Mix

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

DATELINE: MCCOOK, Ill.

 BODY:
MIKE LYNCH would probably have stumped the panel on the old "What's My Line." His twinkly blue eyes, impishly salty language and well-cut suits would point to hard-driving real estate type, maybe, or brash young entrepreneur.
Actually, Michael W. Lynch has been both those things. But at 39, what he is -- incongruously to many, but logically in his mind -- is a metals man who loves playing David to corporate Goliaths. 
 He burst into the public consciousness in August, when his real estate investment company, Michigan Avenue Partners -- or, more accurately, its McCook Metals subsidiary -- offered to top a bid by Alcoa Inc. to buy Reynolds Metals. Neither Reynolds management nor its shareholders paid him much mind, and Reynolds has accepted Alcoa's offer. But anyone who thinks that is the end of McCook's bid has not met Mr. Lynch.
"I'm a street fighter, and if someone tells me I can't do something, I get an endorphin rush," Mr. Lynch said in his rapid-fire style. Neither Reynolds shareholders nor Justice Department regulators, who recently asked Alcoa and Reynolds for more information, have passed on the merger. So he has not abandoned "the dragon slayer" -- his nickname for his Reynolds project.
His tenacity does not surprise friends and colleagues. "Mike is very competitive, and capitalism gives him the biggest scoreboard," said Scott Miller, who was a Chi Psi fraternity brother of his at the University of Wisconsin.
Dominic Forte, one of Mr. Lynch's partners, agreed. "He gets an emotional charge from taking on the corporate giants," he said. "He's flamboyant, and he's not intimidated by anyone."
The oldest of seven children, Mr. Lynch grew up with "mixed messages all over the place," as he tells it. Money was ample, but his father kept the purse strings tight, and Mr. Lynch had to work odd jobs in college.
His parents split 11 years ago, and he has not spoken with his father in eight years. The only blood relative to whom he is really close is his maternal grandfather. "He loved my grandmother to the end -- he is the epitome of loyalty, he is my mentor," Mr. Lynch said. His grandfather turns 90 in February, and Mr. Lynch is chartering a jet to treat him to a weekend trip.
But none of this answers the obvious question: What is Michael Lynch, political science and economics major and real estate pro, doing in the grubby world of metals?
In one sense, it was a logical progression. He gravitated naturally toward real estate, an area in which competitive instincts and a gift of gab go far. After a stint as a broker for CB Commercial, he and a partner formed Michigan Avenue Partners to develop a property on that famous Chicago street.
It was 1991, the depth of the real estate depression, and Michigan Avenue picked up several plum properties at bargain prices. "I saw grown men cry in bankruptcy court, and I vowed I'd never live off debt," Mr. Lynch said.
He eventually bought out his partner, took on new ones and continued trawling for depressed real estate. Then, last year, he heard that Reynolds wanted to sell its McCook works, an old aluminum plant that sprawled across 265 acres just west of Chicago.
Most prospective buyers viewed the plant in terms of its products. But he saw a prime piece of real estate, ripe for an industrial park.
He bought it -- and realized almost immediately that McCook was overpaying for everything, from materials to electricity to insurance. "They had people negotiating contracts who should have been teaching school," he said.
Mr. Lynch convinced Reynolds's former suppliers to cut prices. He modernized the plant. And he successfully fought Alcoa in court, retaining the right to use technologies Alcoa had licensed to Reynolds. The results may give Mr. Lynch the best of both worlds: he is moving the aluminum operations onto half the site and may build an industrial park on the rest.
He has since bought Scottsboro Aluminum, Great Lakes Metals and various other metals plants, bringing the book value of McCook's metals asset base to nearly $1 billion.
"Mike Lynch is an old-time wheeler-dealer who knows how to buy cheap, cut costs, and make a whole lot of money," said Lloyd T. O'Carroll, a metals analyst at Scott & Stringfellow Inc.
Mr. Lynch is also spreading that cash around. A lapsed Catholic but a devout Christian -- "I believe in the Bible, but the church is run by dysfunctional men," he said -- he has designated $2 million for a McCook charitable foundation.
"As a little boy he dreamed of owning businesses, making millions, and using them to help others," said Kimberlee Lynch, his wife of seven years, who is expecting their third child, a son, later this month. "People say he's pompous, but he's not. He's incredibly focused, and he wants to do good in this world."
He puts in grueling days and rarely sleeps more than five hours. In August, after he became so distracted during a phone conversation that he nearly lost control of his car, he finally hired a driver. The driver picks him up at 5:30 A.M. and rarely delivers him back home until 7:30 P.M.
Still, Mr. Lynch finds time to read the Bible with his 7-year-old twin daughters, to garden at his home in Lake Forest, the Chicago suburb, and even to take some naps. That practically makes him the household sluggard. His wife, who never naps, gleaned her own seven-figure income last year as a part-time insurance agent and distributor for Starlight International's health food supplements -- many of which Mr. Lynch takes at her behest.
"He chills and winds down at home," she said. "When he's here, he's really all here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael W. Lynch, the chairman of McCook Metals, with rolled metal products at the company's plant, a former Reynolds aluminum mill in McCook, Ill., just west of Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (92%); AA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REYNOLDS METALS CO; ALCOA INC; MCCOOK METALS (CO); MICHIGAN AVENUE PARTNERS ALCOA INC (92%); MICHIGAN AVENUE PARTNERS (57%); CHI PSI (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REYNOLDS METALS CO; ALCOA INC; MCCOOK METALS (CO); MICHIGAN AVENUE PARTNERS CHI PSI (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MERGERS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: LYNCH, MIKE; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL W LYNCH (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



234 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2714 words

HEADLINE: Swept Away

BYLINE: By PETER DUFFY 

 BODY:
ELVIA SUTER was strolling down Bay 54th Street, a dead-end block in the tiny Brooklyn community of White Sands, when she stopped and gestured toward a 50-foot oak tree. An abandoned blue Chrysler filled with garbage was parked next to it.
"See this tree here?" asked Ms. Suter, a vigorous 82-year-old with salt-and-pepper hair. "When my son was 8, we went into the woods and picked it out. It was about three feet high. He came back here and planted it. The woman across the street, a German woman, said, 'Oh, it will never grow.' But he nourished it, and look at it: It's a sturdy tree." 
 She added, "My son is now 53 years old."
Although Ms. Suter, who moved to White Sands in 1924, did not mention it, the tree, like most of this six-block neighborhood nestled in the crook of Coney Island, will soon be history. Home Depot plans to demolish 41 of the community's 68 homes to make room for a 130,000-square-foot megastore that will be open 24 hours a day. The project was approved last month by the City Planning Commission and is being considered by the City Council, which is expected to give its nod by next month. A company spokesman said groundbreaking could begin in January.
The plan has generated some opposition, mostly from groups outside the neighborhood. But White Sands residents, who acknowledge that they willingly sold their homes, are already starting to pack their belongings and bid farewell. It is a bittersweet time for this tight-knit community, where neighbors know one another so well they often wander into one another's homes after a quick knock. Many go camping together in Ulster County in upstate New York.
"When I was growing up, I never had a key to my house," said John Davis, 42, an ebullient, barrel-chested city worker who has lived in White Sands his entire life, across the street from his 80-year-old aunt. "When I go to friends' houses in other parts of the city, they immediately bolt up the door, even when they leave for a short time. I couldn't live like that."
This is not a story of heroes and villains. But it is the story of the death of a neighborhood, one with its own distinctive history, traditions and characters.
"No matter how small, I don't think the loss of a community is ever insignificant," said Robert A. Caro, whose book "The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York" chronicles the destruction of East Tremont, Sunset Park and other neighborhoods that were devastated by urban development projects that Robert Moses masterminded. "Communities are things that make New York a home to its people. The values of community, of neighborhood, are things that cannot be replaced by anything else, even by the creation of jobs."
 
A Profusion of Cousins In Bright Bungalows
White Sands, a gritty, blue-collar enclave bounded by Coney Island Creek, the Shore Parkway, Dreier-Offerman Park and bustling Cropsey Avenue, is so small and insular that even Brooklyn experts know little about it.
John Manbeck, the borough historian and author of "The Neighborhoods of Brooklyn," was aware of its existence but unfamiliar with its name, which rarely appears on maps. A 1977 city study of Coney Island Creek says only that the area "is known to residents as White Sands."
The name derives from the white sand that used to cover the ground. It is believed that the bungalows that predominate, in a rainbow of colors and styles, were first built in the 1920's and set on stilts to elevate them above the sand. According to local lore, the sand was removed to restore the Coney Island beach, which had been depleted by the hurricane of 1938, and replaced by landfill.
The neighborhood is home to about 160 people, many of whom have lived there for decades. Although those early bungalows are small and ramshackle and the neighborhood itself has patches of deterioration, other, newer houses are proudly maintained, dressed up with gardens and smart additions. Since all the streets dead-end and there is no through traffic, it's a quiet place. It isn't uncommon for residents to drag lawn chairs into the middle of the road for a midnight card game.
White Sands families have stayed put for generations, and relatives abound. Eileen Tomaselli, 57, is typical; a smiling, chatty woman with feathered gray-blond hair, she is a lifelong resident. She and her husband, Anthony, and her son David live on the same block as her two other grown children, James and Danielle. A block over is her sister, Eleanor Barrack, who lives across the street from her sister-in-law, Lucille Gormely. Ms. Gormely, in turn, lives next door to her cousins, the Hamanns. Many older residents own several properties, which they rent to relatives.
"You get a lot of cousins that live around the corner from each other," said Harold Costino, 47, whose parents settled in White Sands when he was a toddler. "If somebody moves into the neighborhood, it is usually someone who is known. 'Oh, that's the Murphys, they are friends of. . . .' Very few cold strangers move in."
The neighborhood has traditionally been Irish and Italian, but it also includes Scandinavians, Germans and at least one Seneca Indian, Mr. Costino. Two years ago, a Chinese family and a Pakistani family moved onto one block. The men of the community usually have blue-collar jobs, as plumbers, carpenters, electricians and city employees.
Legend has it that the grandparents of the Brooklyn-born singer Connie Stevens once lived on Bay 54th Street and that young Connie would sometimes visit. Or was it Ms. Stevens who lived in White Sands? "The story always changes," one resident said.
Until recently, outsiders used White Sands as a dumping ground for stray dogs and stolen cars. The dogs became an integral part of the community, barking furiously at a stranger or a strange vehicle. Neighborhood youngsters built forts out of the cars. Recreation revolved around Coney Island Creek, where, despite the chronic pollution, children fished for fluke, bluefish, crabs and eels.
Perhaps the community's best-known resident is Jerry Bianco Sr., 78, a shipyard worker and patriarch of a large White Sands family, who attracted attention in 1971 when he built a yellow submarine. The 41-foot-long vessel, intended to salvage sunken ships, was launched into Coney Island Creek with great fanfare. Eventually, a storm dragged the sub toward Gravesend Bay, where the conning tower, no longer yellow, still juts out of the water. It is one of many stories in a neighborhood where residents easily fall into reminiscences.
Neighbors come together as often as any extended family would. At Christmas, a resident dresses up as Santa Claus and drops by each home. When a baby is born, everyone visits the newest arrival. The phrase "block party" is redundant in White Sands, because every party is a block party. If a few people are out barbecuing and drinking beer, it isn't long before a crowd has gathered.
 
The Coming of Home Depot, Benefactor and Destroyer
During the era of Robert Moses and the giant public works projects he spearheaded, it was government that destroyed neighborhoods, often against the wishes of the residents. Perhaps most famously, the Cross Bronx Expressway was built through the heart of East Tremont in the 1950's, displacing thousands and snuffing the life out of the community. Today, large-scale development is typically the work of private corporations, and the loss of a neighborhood becomes a matter of negotiation, as in White Sands.
Home Depot, which with 860 stores in North America is the country's largest retailer of home improvement products, began eyeing White Sands in 1993. According to John Simley, a company spokesman, Home Depot believed that southern Brooklyn could support another branch. The nearest Home Depot, three miles to the north on Hamilton Avenue in Red Hook, has done a brisk business. "Gangbusters is how I would characterize it," Mr. Simley said. The company also operates a store seven miles away in Ozone Park, Queens. In all, it has six stores in the city.
Plans in White Sands call for a big-box store with a garden center and a parking space for 580 cars. It will cost "several tens of millions of dollars," Mr. Simley said, and is scheduled to open early in 2001. In exchange for mapping and zoning changes that allowed the development to proceed, the company has promised to landscape the 13.75-acre site, build a walkway along the creek, improve sections of the park and upgrade local roads. The store will provide 150 to 200 permanent jobs, Mr. Simley said, 85 percent of which are earmarked for Brooklyn residents.
"Above all, we try to be a good neighbor," he said. "We don't want to disrupt or create problems when we locate."
As White Sands residents remember it, company representatives began making contact with them in 1994. Robert Barrack, who as full or part owner of 19 mostly vacant properties is one of the largest landholders, said he and his wife, Eleanor, were the first to be approached.
"They gave fair market price," Mr. Barrack said. "They are not stupid. They start low and you work your way up. They weren't hard-nosed about it. They were more than fair."
According to the latest tax assessment records, market values of homes in the neighborhood are $80,000 to $250,000. Although most residents were reluctant to disclose how much they would receive for their houses, Mr. Bianco said Home Depot has agreed to pay him "close to $200,000" for a home he bought in 1984 for $35,000 and improved extensively during the last 15 years.
Some residents were initially reluctant to strike a deal, among them Ms. Suter, who has lived in White Sands longer than any of her neighbors. Her home had been built by her father and moved to White Sands in 1924 from what is now the Belt Parkway. She still remembers the day the house arrived, pulled by a horse. "My father told my mother: 'Let her stay home from school. Maybe some day she will remember this.' " She can still picture the horse in her mind's eye.
Home Depot representatives telephoned Ms. Suter for two years before she agreed to talk. "One time they called and I asked, 'What are you going to do with my property?' They said, 'Oh, we are going to make a parking lot.' And I hung up."
Eventually she decided to sell, she said, because relatives encouraged her to do so and because all her neighbors were selling. She also worried that the city might condemn her property.
Other residents were less reluctant to sell, largely because of the deterioration of the neighborhood: the homeless people who live in Dreier-Offerman Park and the garbage that collects on the streets. They are troubled by other inconveniences. Since their homes were never connected to the city's sewage system, residents must maintain cesspools. Snowplows arrive only after servicing other neighborhoods, and street sweepers rarely come at all.
But even those residents who are not losing their homes are ambivalent. While Home Depot has promised to pay for double-glazed window and mechanical ventilating units to alleviate car noise and exhaust for the homes that will remain, those residents believe that the heart of their community has been cut out.
"Let's see," said Mr. Davis, whose home is among those that will survive the wrecker's ball, "I'm going to trade my neighbors for windows and an air-conditioner?"
The people of White Sands are not the only Brooklynites with mixed feelings about the project. Residents of the surrounding neighborhoods of Coney Island, Bath Beach and Gravesend have expressed fears about traffic congestion, and Community Board 13 voted against the project on the ground that too few traffic studies had been completed, although it has no power to stop the project.
In the eyes of the city government, however, the arrival of Home Depot will mean only good things for the neighborhood, the borough and the city.
Borough President Howard Golden cited the economic troubles of the area, noting that the immediately adjacent neighborhoods have the highest level of unemployment in Brooklyn. In a report to the City Planning Commission, he predicted that Home Depot would "contribute to the revitalization of Coney Island" and "expand employment opportunities and improve the city's tax base."
The commission agreed. "It is a well-planned economic development for the area," said Jennifer Chait, a spokeswoman for the commission.
The project is also in line with the Guiliani administration's position of encouraging megastores. Three years ago, the Mayor proposed that big-box stores be allowed in certain industrial areas without requiring public review. Legislation to that effect was defeated by the City Council.
Although the City Planning Commission could not provide statistics on how often single-family homes are displaced by megastores, Ms. Chait, the agency spokeswoman, said that between July 1998 and June 1999, 13 residential areas were rezoned to permit some form of commercial use.
One former city official has vigorously opposed the project. Irwin Fruchtman, a Gravesend resident who was the Commissioner of the Department of Buildings under Mayor Edward I. Koch, has spoken out against the new store at public meetings and in letters to community newspapers. He has attacked the city for "turning somersaults" for big developers, and has asserted that small businesses in southern Brooklyn will be hurt by this newest project.
"Home Depot wanted a location that would complete their triangle, and the city is giving them all the help they need," he said in an interview last week.
 
The Departure From Paradise
Every year, on the Fourth of July, the entire community gathers for the neighborhood's largest celebration. This year's event, held on an empty lot on Bay 53d Street, was billed as a bon voyage party and drew hundreds of revelers, many of whom had long since left the neighborhood. Prior to the day, David Tomaselli, an up-and-coming executive with a small record label who was the organizer of this year's event, had collected hundreds of family snapshots from his neighbors and transferred them onto a videotape, which he projected on a large screen during the party. Afterward, neighbors hugged one another and wiped away tears.
A few days ago, sitting on a sofa in his home, David Tomaselli, his mother and Ms. Barrack showed the video to a visitor and provided an informal narration. An anecdotal history of the neighborhood over seven decades, its images ranged from the sand-filled streets of the 1930's to last year's baby pictures. There were shots of dogs yapping in midair, people clowning around on camping trips and nearly every party held at the Ben Mc Chree Boat Club on Shore Parkway, the site of virtually every important White Sands celebration. One group of pictures was devoted to a neighborhood football team, called the Creek, which defeated local high school squads back in the 1970's and 1980's.
Although the residents have not yet received their checks from Home Depot and do not know exactly when they will have to move, they are already preparing to depart. Ms. Suter is thinking about Staten Island. The Barracks are relocating to Ulster County. James Rotollo, 70, who has lived in White Sands for 40 years, is heading to West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Tomaselli plans to get an apartment in Bay Ridge. His parents aren't sure yet. "Everything is so expensive," Ms. Tomaselli complained.
Last weekend, several families held yard sales to begin the process of clearing out. Signs were put up on Cropsey Avenue and visitors drove into the small enclave looking for bargains amid the cracked china, mismatched silverware and rusted tools. Ms. Barrack, whose grandparents arrived in the 1920's, wandered around taking pictures of her neighbors. In front of her home, Ms. Tomaselli was leafing through a scrapbook of photographs.
The mood was wistful.
"There is a serious, serious emotional tie," David Tomaselli said. "It is impossible to replace this. Even people who decided to go amicably have an emotional tie."
His mother said, "People who don't live here probably think it is a dirty old slum."
But, she added: "We grew up here, and we had fun all our lives. This was our paradise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The children of White Sands, at right, on Bay 54th Street, and, below, a photograph of the home of Elvia Suter, a longtime resident, that was taken in then in the 1930's. "No matter how small, I don't think the loss of a community is ever insignificant," said the historian Robert A. Caro. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A recent yard sale, right, at which White Sands residents disposed of some of their belongings prior to their forthcoming departure; above, one of 860 stores Home Depot operates in North America, and, top, construction work on a White Sands home in the 20's. "This was our paradise," says a longtime resident. (Top and bottom, Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times; above, George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting White Sands. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5231 PAINT, GLASS, & WALLPAPER STORES (90%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WHITE SANDS (BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES CITIES (87%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); APPROVALS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); CAMPING (62%); 

PERSON: DUFFY, PETER ELVIA SUTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



235 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Bank Stocks and the Jinx of Fed Credit Tightening

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
"RISING interest rates are bad news for banks."
Every time the Federal Reserve starts to tighten credit conditions, that nostrum is trotted out to explain why bank stocks are suffering. But for the last two decades or so, the banks' big problems have not been caused by rising rates. 
 No matter. Bank stocks have been suffering this year, in part because investors have sold shares as the Fed has raised short-term rates. After peaking in late April, a time when most folks thought the Fed was friendly, the Keefe Bruyette & Woods Banks index has fallen 15.3 percent.
Unfortunately, it may be a while before Wall Street's attitude toward the sector sweetens. Lawrence W. Cohn, a bank stock analyst and director of research at Ryan Beck Southeast Rearch in Livingston, N.J., explained why last week. Here are excerpts from that discussion:
 
Q. Why is this perception about rising interest rates being bad for banks misplaced?
 
A. That universally held misconception drives bank analysts around the bend. And it goes back to the early 1970's, when after roughly four decades of stable interest rates, this country went through the first of several bouts of inflation.
In the postwar context the banking industry had never had to defend itself against that, and banks got their clocks cleaned. Traditionally, banks had never paid attention to looking at the sensitivity of their balance sheets to rising rates. The experience was very painful.
In every succeeding rate cycle since then, and there have been five, banks have gotten increasingly sophisticated in managing risks by doing a variety of things, from repricing assets, changing the mix of their liabilities to inventing various kinds of derivative instruments that allow them to shift risk to someone else.
All of that has given the industry an ability to manage rate risk.
 
Q. But doesn't that perception explain why bank stocks have come down this year?
 
A. A rise in interest rates is a big chunk of the reason, but not all of it. There has been a real shift in attitude about where we are in the economic cycle.
Last year's problems in the capital markets, coupled with the Long-Term Capital crisis, began a view that the cycle couldn't go on forever. And that has led to increasing concerns about asset quality.
 
Q. Economic data don't support the thesis that the expansion is nearing an end. And isn't the Fed raising rates to cool off the economy?
 
A. We don't see any signs the economic cycle is coming to an end. But we have gone through this before.
Back in 1988, when the economy was quite strong, bank stocks acted quite poorly. The issue then was worry about the end of the cycle when nothing indicated it was here.
At some point this cycle will end, and when the market is worried about that, things are tough. The thing that makes this such an extraordinarily frustrating period for people in my profession is that the stocks stay very cheap for a long period of time.
 
Q. You mentioned concerns about asset quality. Are there areas where banks are overextended?
 
A. We have already seen some of the excesses in the system. Subprime consumer lending has gone through a terrible period, as has credit card quality. But that has been improving now for more than a year.
Over all, though, we don't see anything that would make the next recession comparable to what the late 1980's was for the banks. When it comes, the next recession will be sufficiently modest for the industry that you will see a decline in earnings, but not much else. If the market sees that modest effect, then you are finally going to get a multiple on bank earnings that better reflects the underlying growth of the industry.
 
Q. Absent a recession, can you see anything on the horizon that would prompt investors to take a second look at the group?
 
A. A recession is the only thing that will cause the market to reassess this situation. We had hoped that as the market saw the better capital and reserve position of the industry, it would recognize that banks were in better shape than during the last recession, which for banks was the worst since the 1930's. But it has not come to pass.
At some point yields on these stocks will reach a point where they start to create a floor.
 
Q. For the past couple of years a good number of bank stocks had a takeover premium built into their stock price. Merger activity has slowed this year. Why?
 
A. The primary reason is the drop in stock prices. But it was not possible that 1999 was going to be as active in the merger area as 1998 was, because by any measure that was an exceptional year of merger activity.
Merger activity has picked up a little recently, and we still expect a rush of activity as banks try and beat the 2001 deadline, when pooling-of-interests accounting gets eliminated.
 
Q. Are there any stocks you like at this point, given the market's sour mood on the group?
 
A. We think the place to be is those kinds of companies that are less exposed to movements in interest rates from a perception standpoint and from a business standpoint.
That brings us to companies with big processing or money management businesses, like Bank of New York, Northern Trust, U. S. Trust and Mellon Bank.
We also like companies with solid dividends and the capacity to grow those dividends. In that area, we like People's Bank of Connecticut, which has been growing their dividend at a 20 percent compound annual rate for the last five years. We think they can do that for the next several years.
 
Q. So people should stay away from the big money center banks?
 
A. The money centers are stocks that will have the hardest time making progress. At some point they will get so cheap they will drag in value investors. But they are stocks that have had substantial asset quality problems at the end of the economic cycle. When they move out of institutional favor, as they are now, it is hard for them to move higher.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence W. Cohn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

PERSON: COHN, LAWRENCE W; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



236 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
In E-Commerce Frenzy, Brave New World Meets Old

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
WHEN Amazon.com declared two weeks ago that it was beginning a bold campaign to become an Internet shopping bazaar, Wall Street applauded. And why not? Amazon, a corporate poster child of the New Economy and pioneer of on-line retailing, would be collecting money from any business, large or small, that wanted to set up shop under its cyber-tent.
Besides, Amazon really needs the cash. Its losses are mounting, as they are for most Internet merchants. But, Amazon explains, the red ink merely underlines the scale of its ambitious investment for future growth. 
 And what is Amazon spending so lavishly on these days? Building a high-tech bunker of supercomputers or hiring battalions of software wizards? No, Amazon is spending much of its money on a half-dozen huge warehouses across the country.
The New Economy is increasingly coming face-to-face with the old: Net code hackers and money hustlers meet the members of Bricklayers Local 247. The hot, new fields of the Internet economy suddenly include distribution and logistics, the humdrum backstage of business. Indeed, as electronic commerce moves into the mainstream -- an estimated 17 million American households will purchase on line this year -- it has prompted a new appreciation for the business skills of the old bricks-and-mortar world.
Customers, it seems, still have decidedly off-line standards of service. They demand timely delivery of goods and the ability to easily return merchandise that proves disappointing, for example.
The on-line retailers who come up short on those fronts, industry analysts predict, will be casualties in the coming consolidation among on-line retailers -- a Darwinian winnowing expected to begin during this year's Christmas shopping season as winners are sorted from losers.
"A lot of the dot-com retailers are going to fold after their venture capital money runs out," observed David Pecaut, a senior vice president of the Boston Consulting Group.
Curiously, the biggest winners in on-line retailing could well be today's department stores, discount chains and specialty stores. In fact, 62 percent of E-commerce sales are accounted for by bricks-and-mortar and catalog companies that also have begun on-line ventures. Within five years, Mr. Pecaut expects that share to rise to 85 percent as companies like Wal-Mart, Nordstrom and Sears improve their performance on the World Wide Web.
THE reason, he says, is that their assets from the "legacy world" -- well-known brands, distribution networks, stores and purchasing power -- will prove to be advantages, and increasingly so in electronic commerce. The leading on-line brands like Amazon and Ebay, for example, came onto the marketplace a few years ago as innovative newcomers, when cyberspace was far less crowded and Internet brand-building was far less costly. The chance of an Internet start-up gaining that kind of brand recognition today, Mr. Pecaut says, is slim.
"For marketers, the superior economics in the future are going to come from the old standards of business -- and not just being on line," he said.
The new catch phrases of modern retailing have embraced that notion: multi-channel retailers, integrated shopping and 360-degree marketing. All are meant to convey the concept of servicing -- or assaulting -- the consumer on many fronts, on line and off.
Some Internet companies are even using their high-priced shares as currency to buy bricks-and-mortar counterparts. For example, the on-line auctioneer Ebay purchased Butterfield & Butterfield, a San Francisco-based auction house founded in 1865, for $260 million in stock earlier this year.
The statistics for on-line retail sales, and projections of future revenue, show meteoric growth. Yet a closer look at the numbers suggests how much traditional retailing retains its hold, despite the rapid, up-from-zero growth of E-commerce. On-line sales in the United States will rise sharply this year to $20 billion and jump to $185 billion by 2004, according to Forrester Research Inc., a technology research firm in Cambridge, Mass. Still, the $185 billion figure, even if it proves accurate, would represent only 7 percent of the nation's retail sales in 2004, the firm maintains.
The rise of the Internet has clearly created not only new wealth but a new sense of economic opportunity.
"The essence of the new Internet economy is its ferocious speed, the faith that this is a big deal and the uncertainty that it will pay off," said Thomas Eisenmann, an E-commerce expert at the Harvard Business School.
The economic payoff from Internet technology will almost surely come first in an area that gets the least attention: its use as a low-cost communications technology to automate all kinds of business transactions. "The Amazons of the world get all the press, but the real growth in electronic commerce in the next five years is going to be in the business-to-business market," said Peter Schwartz, chairman of the Global Business Network, a consulting firm.
FUELING that growth will be companies using the Web instead of faxes, telephones and face-to-face meetings to handle the "back office" tasks involved in trading with their corporate customers and suppliers. Forrester Research projects that the business-to-business market could reach $1.5 trillion by 2003.
But even the Internet-assisted overhaul of dealings among businesses in the next few years represents an evolutionary instead of a revolutionary step. Much of the anticipated transformation amounts to doing the same chores more efficiently because of new technology -- as was true with the telephone and, before that, the telegraph, which has been called "The Victorian Internet," in a book published last year (Walker & Company) by Tom Standage.
And if the past is any guide, the surest corporate winners in the E-commerce business may be the suppliers of basic tools and services for the Internet: computers, software and technical know-how. That, at least, seemed to be the lesson of the last great gold rush in California. It was the general stores and saloons, not the miners, that pocketed the steady money.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Working the old-fashioned way at Amazon.com's distribution center in Seattle. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "WindowShopping.com"
On-line shopping is expected to grow dramatically, yet it will remain a small portion of total retail spending, and growth should level off. Graph tracks total U.S. online retail revenues, online shopping as a percentage of total retail, and new online shopping households added each year for 1999 through 2004. Data is tracked from 1999 through 2004. All figures are projection. (Source: Forrester Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC AMAZON.COM INC (90%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STORAGE; DELIVERY SERVICES INTERNET RETAILING (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TRENDS (89%); BRANDING (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); BRAND EQUITY (63%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



237 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3364 words

HEADLINE: Tearing Down The Facade of 'Vitamins Inc.'

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
THE scope of the conspiracy boggles the mind. For a full decade, top executives at some of the world's largest drug companies met secretly in hotel suites and at conferences. When Federal investigators were closing in, they moved to the homes of high-level European executives.
Working together in a coalition they brazenly called "Vitamins Inc.," they carved up world markets and carefully orchestrated price increases, in the process defrauding some of the world's biggest food companies, including Kellogg, Coca-Cola and Nestle. 
 It was, in the words of Joel I. Klein, head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, "the most pervasive and harmful criminal antitrust conspiracy ever uncovered."
In May, after the conspiracy collapsed, those involved agreed to pay nearly $1 billion to settle Federal antitrust charges, by far the largest criminal fines in American history. And further penalties could come in Europe and elsewhere. The companies involved have pleaded guilty to the Government's charges, but they have refused to discuss details of the case beyond what the authorities originally charged.
Now, virtually every big vitamin maker in the world is on the brink of agreeing to pay an additional $1.1 billion to resolve a consolidated class-action suit brought by purchasers of bulk vitamins -- the raw vitamin ingredients that go into everything from cereal and orange juice to vitamin pills and chicken feed. The suit alleges a wide variety of anti-competitive practices.
How could a conspiracy on this scale ever be born, much less survive a decade? How, in a global marketplace filled with sophisticated buyers and sellers, could a group of multinational corporations, largely from Europe and Asia, avoid detection for so long?
They did it, interviews with investigators and a review of court documents show, with a sly mixture of corporate panache and tight discipline -- nourished by a European tradition that actually encouraged such anti-competitive practices. The big vitamin makers aren't talking, except to say that they regret fixing prices and are working to keep it from happening again.
"We can't dispute the facts and we've decided it is of no value to unravel it. The situation is behind us," said Carolyn R. Glynn, a spokeswoman at Roche A. G., which is based in Basel, Switzerland. "We've paid dearly for it."
But even lacking chapter-and-verse corporate confessions, it is still possible to piece together the outlines of this historic swindle.
 
The Origins
2 Giant Companies In Secret Talks
It all began in 1989, when executives at Roche and BASF A. G. of Germany began holding secret talks about price-fixing, Government investigators said. At the time, both companies faced pressure from rivals and from the prospect of falling prices.
Their solution was to agree, in secret, to carve up the vitamin market and to recruit other big vitamin makers to come in on the arrangement, like Rhone-Poulenc of France and Takeda Chemical Industries, Japan's largest pharmaceutical company. Because these companies have operations in the United States, this was a blatant violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
"These companies seemed to be indifferent to the possibility that the antitrust laws would be enforced," said Robert Silver, a lawyer at Boies & Schiller, of Armonk, N.Y., who filed the first class-action suit against the vitamin makers in 1998.
Roche was the ringleader. Its executives, Federal investigators say, organized the meetings, coordinated the price-fixing and ordered documents destroyed. And it wasn't just one Roche officer but a succession of high-level executives who carried out the details of the plot.
The company had gone this route before. Roche's antitrust problems date to the early 1970's, when it was fined by antitrust officials in Europe for engaging in anticompetitive behavior in the sale of two tranquilizers, Librium and Valium.
Roche also faced litigation over the vitamin market in 1973 after Stanley Adams, a high-level executive in its vitamins and fine chemicals division, sent a confidential letter to antitrust officials at the European Commission in Brussels detailing what he said was Roche's violation of European law in its dominance of the bulk vitamin market.
In "Roche Versus Adams," his 1984 book, Mr. Adams said the company regularly fixed prices. Roche would "get together the major vitamin and chemical producers and talk prices with them," he wrote. "Meetings were held, often in Basel. The manufacturers discussed world prices for different vitamins and chemicals and set a price which they all agreed to keep."
Although the vitamin price-fixing accusations were never proved, and Mr. Adams himself turned out to be less than a savory character -- he was jailed in 1994 for plotting to murder his wife for the insurance payoff -- the story he outlined turned out to be eerily similar to the one Government investigators described in the more recent vitamin case.
In both cases, there were said to be meetings in Basel, coordinated price increases and threats to smaller competitors. By the 1990's, Roche, BASF and Rhone-Poulenc, which together controlled more than 60 percent of the world's vitamin supply, formed a giant price-fixing phalanx, the Government said in court documents.
Roche alone had revenues of $3.3 billion in the United States while the conspiracy was running, and during that time, Justice Department investigators say the conspirators gradually and artfully raised the prices of raw vitamins, so as not to attract notice. They also rigged the bidding process. The average price of bulk vitamin A was $11.59 a pound in February 1990; in November 1998, it was $19.84 a pound, according to a study by the lawyers. The Justice Department says that $5 billion to $6 billion in United States commerce was affected.
The vitamin conspiracy wouldn't be just a European operation for long. In 1991, three Japanese vitamin makers -- Takeda, Eisai and Daiichi Pharmaceutical -- joined in. And a year later, prosecutors say, the cartel included Lonza A. G. of Switzerland, Chinook of Canada and as many as 10 other vitamin makers, including Ducoa. There are few American companies involved in the production of vitamins.
As the operation went global, there were regular meetings in Switzerland, Germany and elsewhere with a varying circle of participants, investigators said. The companies exchanged sales and market-share data, illegally coordinated price increases and decided, region by region, who would get what share of the market, right down to the half percentage point, and even the penny, the Government said.
There were also efforts to prevent cheating and regular "budget meetings" to make sure everyone was on the same page, according to the Government's court documents. "This was a very elaborate and effective conspiracy," one high-level Justice Department official said. "The companies operated as if they were a single entity. And they were very precise. It was greed, pure greed."
 
The Environment
Raising Suspicions Of Wider Price-Fixing
The vitamin business, to be sure, is not unique. Even as some of the largest chemical and pharmaceutical companies atone for the sin of cornering the vitamin market, antitrust experts say the very length and existence of the vitamin cartel raises troubling questions about the possibility of price tampering throughout the food industry.
In the last few years, Federal prosecutors have broken up three international food and agriculture cartels that lasted for more than a decade. The Justice Department says there are now 35 Federal grand juries hearing evidence about the possibility of other global cartels operating in this country, affecting billions of dollars in commerce.
And in the wake of a number of large mergers in food and agriculture, as well as criminal price-fixing convictions earlier this year against executives at the Archer Daniels Midland Company, some of the nation's leading antitrust lawyers say the legal remedies now available may not be enough to thwart price-fixing cartels.
"This is not a one-time thing that has been rooted out," said Kenneth J. Adams, an antitrust lawyer who joined the class-action suit against most of the large vitamin makers. "There's no reason to believe this won't happen again."
Although Justice Department officials say they have successfully smashed the cartel, even Government prosecutors say they are astonished at what took place over the past decade.
Not since the reign of I. G. Farben, the German chemical giant that operated as a state-sponsored conglomerate in the 1930's and 1940's, has an international cartel so effectively and systematically manipulated a world market.
In a sense, such collusion can be seen as part of an age-old tradition. Some experts say the secret vitamin pact may have grown out of a corporate culture that encouraged collusion, and legal systems in Europe and Asia that were then far more accommodating to price-fixing than the American legal environment.
"Until recent times, European countries didn't have laws that stopped cartels; in fact, they had laws that encouraged cartels," said George L. Priest, a professor of law and economics at Yale University. "But today, virtually every country is coming around to the view that the more competition, the better the economy."
What the vitamin conspirators controlled was most of the world's bulk vitamin production -- vitamins A, C and E, niacin and other B-complex vitamins -- a $1 billion-a-year industry in raw vitamin ingredients.
The big companies sell the raw vitamins to animal feed operations, food and beverage makers, and pharmaceutical and cosmetics companies, which turn the raw products into off-the-shelf vitamin tablets and even skin cream.
 
The Warnings
Animal-Feed Mixers Fight Back Early
America's largest food companies, which blend raw vitamins into things like bread, rice and juice, said they were unaware of any unusual pricing practices.
"They saw the price increases and inquired about them," said Jonathan D. Schiller, another lawyer at Boies & Schiller, which sued vitamin makers on behalf of big food companies like Land o' Lakes, the butter maker.
"But the vitamin makers justified the increases by saying that it was exchange rates or production cost increases," Mr. Schiller said.
But the animal feed industry, which bought huge amounts of bulk vitamins and used them to produce healthier and faster-growing livestock, was more alert to the conspiracy.
Vitamin producers shipped raw vitamins, often in powder form, to a vitamin blender, or pre-mix operator, who then created a special blend of vitamins that was sold to large farms and animal feed operations, like the huge chicken farms of Tyson Foods, the world's largest poultry producer.
It had worked that way for decades, until the 1980's, when vitamin makers saw the American pre-mix industry as a source of additional revenue -- a way, some lawyers said, for the companies to strengthen their hold on the world's biggest market for bulk vitamins.
BASF entered the blender market in 1986. According to lawyers for the independent blenders, BASF and Roche later tried to destroy small mixers with what the lawyers called predatory pricing.
BASF executives declined to comment, but small pre-mix blenders say BASF charged them high prices for raw vitamins while selling blended vitamins directly to animal feed operators below cost, in the hope of snuffing out their independent rivals.
"They threatened us," said Eugene E. Reed, a former vitamin blender in Little Rock, Ark., who told investigators that in 1997 he sat in on a meeting in Atlanta with a BASF executive who made threats against an American blender.
"They told a friend of mine: 'You need to remove yourself or you'll be forced out of the business.' "
There were logical reasons for combining production and blending, like getting to market faster. But lawyers involved in the class action say the larger economic reason was simple: eliminating competition.
"You squeeze out the guy in the middle," said Mr. Adams, the lawyer for the pre-mix blenders. "You vertically integrate, and then you control both ends."
By the mid-1990's, blenders and animal feed producers had grown increasingly suspicious.
Among themselves, they repeated tales of threats to small blenders, and some vitamin customers complained about a lack of competitive bidding.
"We did notice that the bids seemed to be unusually consistent," said Les Baledge at Tyson in Springdale, Ark.
"And if you went to a competing company they said the supply wasn't available."
 
The Trail
One Cartel's Collapse Fuels New Inquiries
For the vitamin cartel, the beginning of the end may have been signaled by the scandal at Archer Daniels Midland. In 1996, the company agreed to pay $100 million to settle Federal charges that in the early 1990's executives had conspired with European and Japanese companies to fix the prices of feed additives.
At the time, it was the biggest international cartel ever uncovered by Federal prosecutors. One key Archer partner was Roche, which agreed in 1997 to pay $14 million to settle criminal charges that it helped fix prices for one additive, citric acid.
The Archer case cracked open because of Mark E. Whitacre, an Archer executive who secretly tape-recorded company executives discussing price-fixing with rivals. Then came confessions from other executives. During the investigation, Justice Department officials heard Roche might have also been fixing prices in the vitamin market.
But there was no immediate confession on vitamins, partly because there was no tape and no mole. When Kuno Sommer, head of marketing in the vitamins and fine chemicals division of Roche, a key participant in the meetings on citric acid, was questioned by Federal agents in March 1997, he denied that there was any price-fixing in vitamins.
Federal agents later discovered, according to the Government's settlement documents, that before the 1997 interview, Mr. Sommer had "met separately with at least two other high-level Roche executives. At the end of those meetings, it was understood by the individuals that if Sommer was asked about Roche's participation in a vitamins cartel, Sommer would lie and deny that such a cartel existed."
By that time, private antitrust lawyers had already begun their own investigation in hopes of winning a huge settlement. Among their findings was a memo Mr. Sommer had written in September 1993 that suggested a continuing price-fixing scheme. "Good experience with citric acid," Mr. Sommer wrote before a meeting with Archer executives. "Next opportunity B2. We think it's worth that we explore all possibilities of cooperation. Let's explore cooperation product-by-product."
By 1998, some of the nation's leading law fims joined the fray. Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld & Toll was investigating the case. And lawyers at Boise & Schiller -- headed by David Boies, who is prosecuting Microsoft for the Government -- filed suit on behalf of J & R Feed Services in Cullman, Ala., accusing large vitamin makers of conspiring to fix prices. A year later, the Justice Department brought its first price-fixing charges against Lonza of Switzerland. Then the department turned to the biggest players.
Initially, the big three vitamin makers -- Roche, BASF and Rhone-Poulenc -- denied the charges. Even when lawyers working at Roche first learned about the conspiracy in late 1997 or early 1998 and directed that it be stopped, according to other lawyers involved in the case, the cartel continued to operate. Meetings were moved to executives' homes to avoid detection.
 
The Turning Point
One Big Player Comes Forward
 But earlier this year, Rhone-Poulenc broke ranks. It came forward as part of an amnesty program, begun in 1994, that offers leniency to the first company to cooperate in a Federal antitrust investigation. Some lawyers involved in the case say Rhone-Poulenc was eager to appease regulators scrutinizing its pending merger with Hoechst A. G., the German pharmaceutical giant, which earlier this year paid $36 million to settle Federal charges that it had conspired to fix prices on food preservatives.
After Rhone-Poulenc's confession, the cartel's wall of silence crumbled.
Roche and BASF stepped forward. So did a large group of Japanese companies, which agreed last month to pay $137 million to settle vitamin price-fixing charges. Roche was hit the hardest, though, agreeing to pay $500 million to settle charges, equivalent to about one year's revenue from its vitamin business in the United States. Two Roche executives have been sentenced by Federal courts to prison terms of a few months. BASF paid $225 million and Rhone-Poulenc avoided any fine.
Partly as a result of those payments, the Justice Department's antitrust division has already recovered $1 billion in all cases this year, more than in the previous 30 years combined.
Archer Daniels Midland "was not the iceberg; it was the tip," said Mr. Klein, of the Justice Department, in an interview.
 
The Future
Will a Settlement Prevent Repetition?
What was it about vitamins that nourished a conspiracy?
Antitrust experts say international cartels develop because the right dynamics are in place. Most operate in concentrated markets with few players, making it easy to coordinate pricing. They also operate in businesses that require a big investment to enter. And price-fixing commonly involves commodities, like paper or chemicals, because generic products are harder to differentiate, allowing conspirators to price uniformly. Vitamins were a perfect fit.
Even though there have been huge sanctions against the conspirators, some experts worry that the penalties may not be enough to prevent cartels from reappearing. Mr. Adams, the lawyer, said the Justice Department ought to compel the breakup of the cartel's American subsidiaries, because they have already killed off many of their competitors. "The Justice Department could have imposed structural relief to inject competition," Mr. Adams said.
The vitamin cartel made billions of dollars, he said, often with price mark-ups of 20 percent, far more than the cartel will repay in criminal fines. "That made it worthwhile," he said. "Their thinking was, A: You might not get caught. B: If you get caught, you pay the ticket. Is this simply an expensive license to keep stealing?"
The Justice Department doesn't think so. Officials say the agency has fulfilled its legal duty. They add that the antitrust division does not have the authority to restructure foreign companies and does not want to force them to break up American subsidiaries. "The penalties coupled with the jail time I think is a far greater deterrent than structural relief," Mr. Klein said. "I'm confident that we've nuked this cartel."
Still, questions remain about whether the big vitamin makers, which still dominate the world market, will try again to raise profits artificially. Even after the Archer Daniels Midland scandal and government investigations into the vitamin market, investigators say Roche continued to operate at the head of the cartel. "They basically kept perpetuating it, basically saying it's worth it," one Justice Department official said.
And though Roche was hit with big fines for being a repeat offender, Roche executives say the conspiracy was carried out by a small group of rogue executives.
"You will understand that this was not part of our responsibility," Franz Humer, the chief executive, said at a news conference in Basel after the settlement. "It is certainly not easy to understand the reasons for actions of employees who in secrecy organized a conspiracy of this kind."
BASF executives said something similar, arguing that there is no foolproof way to prevent another cartel from developing. "There will be no 100 percent guarantee that even with audits, everything will be legal," Eggert Voscherau, a BASF board member, said in an interview with The Chemical Markets Reporter in July. "We cannot set up a police state."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker weighs raw vitamins in preparation for mixing them at a blending company's plant in the Midwest. (Mike Gullett for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Chart: "The Vitamin Fix"
Last May, some of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies confessed to taking part in what Federal investigators now say was a huge, decade-long conspiracy to fix prices of bulk vitamins around the world.
 
THE BIG PLAYERS -- Estimated current United States market share for all bulk vitamins, a $1 billion market:
 
ROCHE -- 60%
BASF -- 28%
RHONE-POULENC -- 7%
OTHERS -- 5%
 
1989
 
LATE 1989 -- Roche of Switzerland and BASF of Germany begin to conspire to fix prices and divide up world vitamin markets, according to Federal prosecutors.
 
1991
 
LATE 1990 AND 1991 -- Rhone-Poulenc and several large Japanese vitamin makers join the price-fixing conspiracy, Government officials say.
 
1993
 
1993 OR 1994 -- A BASF business plan spells out its intent to end competition among vitamin blenders and control 90 percent of the market, according to a class-action lawsuit filed against BASF and other vitamin makers.
 
1996
 
OCTOBER 1996 -- Archer Daniels Midland agrees to pay $100 million to settle Federal charges of price-fixing in the lysine and citric acid markets. As part of the investigation, the Government questions Barrie R. Cox, an Archer Daniels executive, who describes his company's plot to fix prices. He also gives details of Roche's key role in the conspiracy.
 
1997
 
JANUARY 1997 -- At a meeting in Atlanta, BASF executives threaten one of the company's small competitors, according to lawyers for the class-action suit.
 
MARCH 12, 1997 -- Kuno Sommer, a high-level executive at Roche, admits that the company engaged in price-fixing in the citric acid market but denies that price-fixing occurred in vitamins. Government investi 2/3gators later learn that Mr. Sommer was coached by other Roche executives to lie.
 
MARCH 26, 1997 -- Roche pleads guilty and agrees to pay $14 million to settle charges that the company fixed prices and allocated markets for citric acid with Archer Daniels and others.
 
1999
 
EARLY 1999 -- Rhone-Poulenc tells investigators that it took part in the cartel. (Because of its early cooperation, Rhone-Poulenc is not fined.)
 
FEBRUARY 1999 -- The vitamin conspiracy ends, according to Government documents.
 
MARCH 2, 1999 -- Lonza of Switzerland, along with five executives of other companies, pleads guilty to price-fixing in vitamins.
 
MAY 20, 1999 -- Roche and BASF agree to pay a record $725 million fine to settle Federal charges. The next day, the chairman and the chief executive of Roche attribute the conspiracy to a small group of rogue executives.
(Sources: Company reports; court documents)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (60%); BASF (BIT) (60%); BAS (FRA) (60%); KO (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (60%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (60%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (60%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (76%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO; KELLOGG CO; NESTLE SA VITAMINS INC (93%); BASF SE (60%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); NESTLE SA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO; KELLOGG CO; NESTLE SA US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: VITAMINS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); CARTELS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (74%); HISTORY (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



238 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 4832 words

HEADLINE: A Leader's-Eye View Of Leadership

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
LAWRENCE A. BOSSIDY spoke of the value of hiring those who have failed. L. Dennis Kozlowski shook his head at the "absurd" valuations of Internet companies, while Charles B. Wang talked about having dot-com envy. Shelly Lazarus defended the $80-million-plus pay package that Hewlett-Packard recently awarded its new leader.
Early one Monday morning in late September, these four chief executives -- Mr. Bossidy of Allied Signal, Mr. Kozlowski of Tyco International, Mr. Wang of Computer Associates International and Ms. Lazarus of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide -- gathered over coffee at The New York Times to talk about leadership and how they do their jobs. All are featured in a recent book, "Lessons from the Top: The Search for America's Best Business Leaders," (Doubleday/Currency, 1999) written by Thomas J. Neff and James M. Citrin, two executive recruiting consultants from Spencer Stuart in New York. Mr. Neff and Mr. Citrin also joined the discussion, as did Reed Abelson, Alison Leigh Cowan and Patrick J. Lyons of The Times. 
 The four chief executives brought different perspectives to the two-hour discussion. Mr. Bossidy, who has more than four decades of business experience, helped turn around Allied Signal and is currently merging it with Honeywell to create a company with $25 billion in sales. Mr. Kozlowski has guided Tyco through the purchase of more than 100 companies since he took over as chief executive in 1992. At Computer Associates, one of the world's largest independent software concerns, Mr. Wang managed the transition from founder to the leader of a company with more than $5 billion in annual sales. And while the agency that Ms. Lazarus runs is not an independent or public company -- the London-based WPP Group acquired it in 1989 -- it has long been one of the most successful advertising agencies in the world.
Much of the discussion focused on the challenge of managing people: the fierce competition for talented employees, the need to communicate effectively, the growing demand for a healthier balance between work and life outside the workplace. The four also frankly discussed compensation, and all noted the importance of their own actions in conveying the values of the companies they lead.
Following are excerpts of the conversation.
 REED ABELSON
 
Making Their Mark
 
Q. What kind of thoughts do you have about the legacy you're going to leave behind? Is it just to have the biggest company?
BOSSIDY -- It isn't size that is as important to me as to have the employee base be convinced that we were always willing to change a lot of things, that the company had some edge.
KOZLOWSKI -- We went out and did a reverse acquisition of ADT a couple of years ago where we had to charge our shareholders capital gains on the deal. It was a pretty unpopular decision with shareholders and even with my board. I hope to exemplify leadership in a way that we're willing to do things that are unpopular.
WANG -- I don't know if legacy is defined only in business. If I could be remembered for something, it's probably how I raised my kids and what else I did. As much as we think we're very important, I think we forget there's probably somebody in our ranks who thinks they can do it better and probably can do it better. Our job probably is to make sure that they have the right values.
LAZARUS -- I inherited a legacy, which came home very much to me when David Ogilvy died. We had a memorial service, and thousands of employees returned who hadn't worked for the company in 20 and 30 years because the emotional connection to what David founded was so remarkable. So I see my job much more is to keep that alive.
WANG -- Why wouldn't you make your own legacy?
LAZARUS -- Well, because it's marvelous, because it's founded on a set of values. It's not founded on a personality, on an individual. And it's a set of values that are all about excellent people and excellent work and all about recognizing individual contribution. I've stayed for 28 years because I believe in all those things.
 
Success and Succession
 
Q. The book "Lessons from the Top" is clearly a reflection in time. As we approach 2000, what qualities and skills will your successors need?
BOSSIDY Trying to stay ahead of the game, trying to work with a work force which is far more independent than it was when I started and trying to be responsive and keep those organizations at the leading edge will be the challenge.
I mean, you could be a C.E.O. 10 years ago and never have talked to your employees. You talk to them every day now.
This notion of C.E.O. and C.O.O. chief operating officer , which I think is awful, will go in the next 10 years. It's a bad thing under a set of circumstances that doesn't envision transition immediately, because it separates two jobs that should be joined.
KOZLOWSKI -- I agree that the C.O.O. concept is a dangerous one in most companies, because it really separates the C.E.O. from the operating groups.
WANG -- You know, maybe by the traditional definition of what the C.E.O. or C.O.O. does, what their job function is, perhaps you can say that. But maybe I'm fortunate. I know who the next C.E.O. is: He's my C.O.O. But he doesn't really operate in that traditional sense. We do things together. He happens to have the unfortunate task of doing everything I don't like to do.
If you asked him, he'd probably tell you he can run the company better than I can. And I hope he feels that way, because that's what makes somebody who should be the C.E.O.
LAZARUS -- The thing that keeps me up at night is the scarcity of talent. In my industry, we keep recycling the same eight people. There's so much opportunity for young people now -- the world of the Internet and start-ups and dot-coms, and 28-year-olds making $50 million overnight. The challenge for us is to figure out how to keep those people long enough that they are ready to become C.E.O.'s.
BOSSIDY -- I think there's more talent than ever before. The trouble is, it migrates to narrower places. A few years ago, if you didn't go to a consulting firm, you weren't essentially in the main. Now if you're not with a dot-com you're basically not allowed to the party.
KOZLOWSKI -- There are 20-year-olds coming out of college now, and out of graduate school, that are far brighter and have a far greater perspective of the world than anybody did in my class. But there's another thing that's happening, too: Really talented, bright people are starting to question the life styles that are involved in this kind of work.
LAZARUS -- Absolutely. I think we're going to have to get much more flexible and open-minded about how we -- I don't even say employ people -- but how we source resources. Because there are people who are now saying, "I'll give you X number of hours a week but I am not signing up as a full-time employee."
Q. Can you give us an example of the flexible arrangements you find yourself making?
LAZARUS -- Well, we have a man who wants to live in Penelope, Tex., where he has a ranch. I'd make him a creative leader in my agency; he doesn't want to do that. He said: "I will sell you 40 percent of my time. And I will also retain the right to refuse an assignment if I don't want to do it."
He has done a brilliant job for us, absolutely brilliant. If I can get five more of him, if I get a hundred more of him, I would take them.
BOSSIDY -- You've also got to be careful that the only people you retain aren't those who are risk-averse and don't want to do the dot-com situation. So I say to our people: "Let's go get some people from the dot-coms right now. They're failing every day. But at least they showed the interest and the courage to take some risks."
Q. So failure can be a good thing?
BOSSIDY -- I used to hire real estate people. I always hired ones that had failures. I wanted the person who had lost a lot of money for somebody else to come work for me. You don't reward -- you don't praise -- failure. But it can be a wonderful thing in terms of what you learn.
Q. Even if the failure is very public?
BOSSIDY -- I think every failure needs to be analyzed. Why? What happened? And sometimes you've got to stand up, yourself, and say, "I was a part of that and I have as much responsibility for it as anybody does. Now, let's make sure we don't make that same mistake again when we develop another product."
WANG -- I think what you've got to do is take the blame. I mean, ultimately you give all the credit to your people and you take all the blame.
We tell our people we're no smarter than any other company in the world. The problem with all the other companies seems to be, they may spend five times the amount of time to make decisions, spinning about what went wrong: "It's really not my fault." And all of that time could have been used to make decisions. So if we could just cut out all the spinning, then we'd have that much more time.
KOZLOWSKI -- Any time you're going to try something, at whatever level, there's always a risk of failure.
BOSSIDY -- And if you study it for three months, or study it for a day, probably the percentages are about the same.

Embracing the Internet
 
Q. These days, one primary reason that chief executives seem to fail and are shown the door is the Internet.
KOZLOWSKI -- I don't see the Internet as being the demise of C.E.O.'s. There are a couple of examples, maybe, but C.E.O.'s usually trip over themselves. They make slow decisions or bad decisions or invest the money in the wrong way or don't have a focus -- aren't quick out of the box.
LAZARUS -- I think the healthiest thing that's coming out of this whole Internet phenomenon is that the good C.E.O.'s are rethinking the whole way they go to the market.
So it's not the Internet per se. I think that becomes sort of like a distraction. But because you have this new capability -- this new way to distribute, inform, communicate -- the good companies are stepping back and saying, "What does this mean about the whole way we go to market?"
BOSSIDY -- One of the things I try to do is get everybody in the company involved on the Net in some way -- manufacturing people, more outsourcing; purchasing people, more global sourcing. And you can use it as a way to reinvent the company. You get a whole new set of excitement; some new people come to the fore. You do some things experimentally that you would never do otherwise.
 
E-Communicating Pros and Cons
 
Q. You all lead large organizations. How do you stay in touch with your employees?
WANG -- Get a good C.O.O.!
BOSSIDY -- There's such a thing as the E-mail now. And you have an easier time communicating with anybody than ever. You can issue E-mails, you can get E-mails, all the time. And I think it's essential that you do.
LAZARUS -- But I also think there's no substitute for face-to-face.
BOSSIDY -- I agree.
LAZARUS -- Something happens when you are in the room with people with whom you work, trying to solve a problem together or just listening to them. And the E-mail becomes more meaningful after the trip with the face-to-face.
KOZLOWSKI -- We have 140,000 employees in 80 countries. And it takes a lot of face-to-face time, a lot of travel on my part, to be able to articulate our goals and where we're going.
But I really like showing up. You know, I really like being there and being able to have a dialogue like this.
BOSSIDY -- If you aren't willing to communicate and if you're not good at it, you're at a disadvantage. You have to do even more than you've ever done before in whatever way you do it, but it's something that you ought to do every day, someplace.
KOZLOWSKI -- Employees are far more willing to critique -- openly critique -- the C.E.O. than ever before.
BOSSIDY -- That's better than having it only in chat rooms.
LAZARUS -- I agree.
WANG -- I don't have E-mail. I force my people to get in touch with me. And it takes an effort. And it must be important, then, too.
And I travel a lot. Once a year we also bring all our field people together for what we call a kickoff. We spend a week of basically bringing them all up to date on what's happened. But as you get bigger, you still have to force the issue of thinking small, because otherwise you end up in a bureaucracy that can choke you.
 
Fair Play in the Numbers Game
 
Q. What about that other constituency: the institutional investors, the analysts?
WANG -- My C.O.O. deals with Wall Street.
KOZLOWSKI -- I spend 10 percent of my time communicating with investors.
BOSSIDY -- One of the things I think C.E.O.'s do is understand who your constituents are, and one of them is share owners. You've got customers, you've got employees, you've got suppliers, you've got share owners, you've got communities in which you live. You've got to spend time with all of them.
 
Q. Does paying attention to the share owners make you too short-term at times?
KOZLOWSKI -- You absolutely have got to deliver what you promised in the short term. And you've got to have a strategy in place worrying about two years from now. I pretty much know what the next year and a half will look like and have a forecast in place that I'm very confident in.
LAZARUS -- I'm actually sitting here thinking this is probably the only benefit of having been acquired hostilely by an English company.
 
Q. We have seen very good managements run into trouble when they surprise analysts. But then, maybe truly good managements never surprise analysts.
BOSSIDY -- You're better off to run it on the basis that you avoid those surprises to the fullest possible extent.
NEFF -- You could probably get away with one surprise.
KOZLOWSKI -- I don't agree.
BOSSIDY -- No. The price is immediate.
KOZLOWSKI -- Yeah. You miss earnings by a penny and you can lose $3 billion of market value the same day.
 
Q. Doesn't that increase the temptation to have a little bit in the back pocket to make sure you're going to make your numbers?
KOZLOWSKI -- It increases the temptation of making sure you give appropriate guidance to Wall Street as to where you think you're coming out.
You can't manage earnings. There are very specific accounting rules and S.E.C. rules now that preclude one from going that route. But it really is terribly important to have good communication and good visibility of your own businesses, so that you can become, and are, and continue to be a predictable company.
WANG -- I don't know if you really can be that predictable. There are a lot of things beyond your control. We do so many deals a year. Some of them can slip by a few days. You don't know until almost the -- actually, till the last day of the quarter, many times.
Q. You see a company that makes its numbers for 15 years in a row. Do you suspect they're just lucky enough to be in a very predictable business, or do you suspect that the chief executive is good at making the numbers?
KOZLOWSKI -- I think they're good. I think companies like G.E. are good. They're well-run companies.
 
That Urge to Merge
 
Q. This is a golden age for mergers. Do you see that changing?
BOSSIDY -- I think it depends on two things: What's the interest rate environment and what's the stock market going to be?
I think there's benefit to being big. To Charles's point, I think you want to be as big as you can and run it as small as you can, as a way to be quick.
KOZLOWSKI -- When interest rates fluctuate, pricing usually comes down on companies to be acquired and you're more inclined to use some combination of stock and cash in those deals. I would expect, for any horizon I can see, a Tyco that would continue to be quite active.
BOSSIDY -- Dennis, let me ask you a question. What's going to happen to your view if pooling of interests, a method of accounting for mergers is eliminated?
KOZLOWSKI -- I think what we attempted to do with Raychem -- where we could have pooled Raychem and shown another penny or two a share but where we used half stock and half equity -- is the kind of deal that you're going to see going forward. However, part of the proposal is showing earnings before the amortization of goodwill. Then you have the best of all worlds. And there are so many unintended consequences of poolings, limitations that the S.E.C. puts on you -- not being able to sell off things that you don't want to have, on the purchase of your own stock -- I think it's almost a good thing that poolings will be eliminated. It will protect us from ourselves.
BOSSIDY -- I agree. I think there's going to be a lot of furor expressed on the potential elimination, but I don't think at the end of the day it's going to have much impact.
 
A Brave New World?
 
Q. Does this unprecedented period of prosperity herald a "new economy," or are you afraid that it's got to end pretty soon?
WANG -- I think we are in a new economy. I think we've gone through this kind of industrial age, the marketing age, and now we're really in an information age. And I think the people we call the knowledge workers are expected to have more information and make decisions faster.
KOZLOWSKI -- It's a true global economy now, too, that just didn't exist five years ago, where you're buying and selling on a worldwide basis, and your competitor now may be in Indiana, or your competitor may be in Brazil, or your competitor may be in Germany.
Plus, the information technology that you have available to you now allows you to see a lot of things on a real-time basis that you weren't able to see five years ago.
Q. Is the business cycle gone?
KOZLOWSKI -- No, probably not. In business, as far as I know it, the good times get bad and bad times get good. Maybe there are longer cycles now.
BOSSIDY -- I think, too, there's another factor, which doesn't mean that markets won't, over time, change.
I think the U.S. has a big competitive edge now. We have taken a lead in the information technology. We've taken the lead in Internet. I don't say that we're destined to always have that advantage, but I do think in the last number of years we've moved faster than the Europeans, we've moved faster than the people in the Far East.
Q. So higher price-to-earnings ratios are justified?
BOSSIDY -- I think on a global basis, yes. You know, markets are smart.
Q. What about the Internet valuations? Do you all wish you had dot-com at the end of your company's name?
KOZLOWSKI -- No. Some of it is absolutely absurd.
WANG -- I wish we had dot.com.
We do so much business on the Internet, but traditionally, the perception has been that we are a plumbing company, what's behind it. Our software manages the largest Web sites in the world, and we have more security software than any other independent software company. And yet our valuation is not a dot-com.
LAZARUS -- Once you relax the profit requirement, you know, it's very different. And we have clients coming in who are new dot-com companies who say, "We have an advertising budget of $70 million, $80 million," and you sort of press them on the economics.
I just saw where Etoys today is going to invest 70 percent of their sales last year in advertising in the next three months. I mean, it's madness.
BOSSIDY -- But you know, therefore, that's going to stop.
LAZARUS -- It's got to stop.
BOSSIDY -- But I do think that the medium will continue.
Tom, what percentage of your placements have been Internet placements in the last 12 months?
NEFF -- In terms of current assignments in the U.S., it's into the double digits. It's probably approaching 15 percent, currently. So we've had over 100 active search assignments for Internet C.E.O.'s.
 
Q. Many a brilliant marketing campaign aims to familiarize the public with these new Internet names. What about the companies that possess the old great names?
LAZARUS -- Well, I think they have an advantage if they use it. Sears, which is one of our clients, as a name for the old catalogue company, as a place that you trust to get merchandise, is brilliant. But they've got to get onto it or Amazon.com is going to become the retailer of the year 2000. I mean, because I don't think they're stopping at books.
WANG -- I really believe that an established business should look at a hybrid type model instead of thinking of this as a separate, distinct silo. Imagine if you could get on line, buy books and at the end of your whole order, you have a choice: send it to me or go drive through a drive-through window at Barnes & Noble and pick up my package.
BOSSIDY -- And yet, it's ironic that because of Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble's got a better household recognition than ever before. So the question is: Can you capitalize on that?
 
The Chief as Superstar
 
Q. Last week George Shaheen surprised all of us by jumping from Andersen Consulting, which he ran with an iron fist, to the Webvan Group, the Internet grocery vendor. Out of his mind?
KOZLOWSKI -- He has the opportunity to make a whole lot of money over there, from what I've read. So, you know, it's like the risk somebody pointed out before: if he has a shot at $100 million or thereabouts, it's probably a reasonable place to go. And he's probably a pretty capable executive, so it's a risk worth taking.
 
Q. Do the media exaggerate the extent to which the C.E.O. is the company and the company is the C.E.O.?
KOZLOWSKI -- I've thought about that a lot, and I think the difficulty you have is it's hard to talk about a company -- that Allied Signal did this or Tyco did that.
BOSSIDY -- I think you ascribe brilliance too soon. I mean, you take a Jack Welch of General Electric for 20 years -- he deserves it. He's come through good and bad times and always has done well. But I don't think you should do it in terms of a year or two. I mean, you might want to see them season a little.
 
Q. What about C.E.O. compensation? There is some concern that while the market's been doing wonderfully, C.E.O.'s have made out more than handsomely.
BOSSIDY -- The press had something to do with that. They didn't like salaries and bonuses, so they said, "You ought to put more of your income at risk." And so the corporations did, and now they're complaining about that.
But when I get asked in my own audiences, I say: "I make a lot of money. And take on a lot of risk."
And then I say, "Our savings plan is up $2.5 billion since I came." That doesn't mean just me -- the whole company has made a lot. And the people who own the stock in the company make a lot of money.
KOZLOWSKI -- I do not receive one single penny of bonus unless my earnings per share grow over 20 percent a year. However, I do start accruing restricted shares of stock, and I make an awful lot of money in the stock. We pay taxes on that, and our compensation is totally in line with the shareholders. And one could look at it and say, yeah, we truly are overpaid, but a lot of it's been the appreciation of the stock market.
WANG -- It's been noted that I got a $600-and-some million grant. But people don't realize this was a plan that was approved by 86 or 87 percent of the shareholders. If we brought a value of $18 billion to shareholders, I would think then we'd earned a bonus. It was a five-year plan with a seven-year tail.
KOZLOWSKI -- You got a $600 million grant? I'm glad I'm not your shareholder.
BOSSIDY -- I wouldn't mind being your adopted kid.
LAZARUS -- I had a fascinating conversation last week with someone who was absolutely outraged by Carly Fiorina's pay package when she recently signed on at Hewlett-Packard . And I said, "Yes, but why would she have come otherwise?"
 
Q. It's often said that at a certain level it no longer matters how much any of you make, that you would be doing just as good a job for $100 million less or $20 million less.
KOZLOWSKI -- Yeah, all my meals are paid for, for as long as I'm around. So, I'm not working for that any longer.
But it does make a difference in the charities I ultimately leave monies behind to, and it's a way of keeping score.
BOSSIDY -- Hewlett-Packard doesn't have a habit of going out and paying exorbitant salaries, so they wanted her Ms. Fiorina to run the company, and that's what the market was, and she got the market price. How can you be critical of that?
LAZARUS -- I don't even know her, but I think she would have considered herself foolish if she left all that money on the table. Why would she do that?
 
Setting an Example
 
Q. Do employees and other stakeholders in the companies look to activities outside the executive suite as signals about the chief executive's leadership and values?
WANG -- I think charity is a personal thing. We also recognize the company is also a member of the community and the world at large. What I try to do is encourage my people to give. If you're an employee of C.A., if you give $1, C.A. will match $2 for it. So this way we really push them to give more.
BOSSIDY -- I think, though, there is an issue as to how much time a C.E.O. should spend doing other things.
I think you're hired to run the company. That doesn't mean you should be ignorant of what's going on in Washington, but you ought to go down there selectively as opposed to weekly.
I don't think you can get involved in a whole bunch of charities. I think you can get involved in a charity and then spend some time, and influence it, and try to make it better. But the more I see C.E.O.'s fragment their time doing a lot of other things, I think, the less successful they're going to be.
LAZARUS -- I'd like to answer your question in a somewhat different way, because I think I'm always asked these questions about balance and how do you retain women.
How I spend my time and how I communicate my own values and my own priorities does have a very significant impact on the employees in my company. So that when I stay out for three months for maternity leave, I am well aware that that makes it all right to take maternity leave.
And if the C.E.O. isn't going to the school play, and the C.E.O. is canceling his vacation, and the C.E.O. is not coming home to be at his 6-year-old's birthday party, well then, the rest of the company knows how they're supposed to behave.
 
Q. We still haven't seen too many cases of women with small children running large organizations.
WANG -- Why is it different for women? I raised my three kids. One of them is 28 years old. And I raised them while I was building Computer Associates. Now I have two more kids. One's 6 and one's 1 year old. I go to the school play. I'm the one that goes to the parent-teacher conference.
 
Q. There is a widely cited statistic that two-thirds of the men who work, are married and have children, have wives who stay at home, but hardly any working wives with children have stay-at-home husbands.
WANG -- My wife works. She works for C.A. She has 4,000 people reporting to her.
KOZLOWSKI -- So she is your successor?
WANG -- No, she's not. She's too nerdy!
BOSSIDY -- I've had nine children. There's no reason why you can't be president and do a lot of the things as the kids grow up. I did.
And I do think the hardest deal in the world is for a woman to have two or three young kids, to work when their spouse works. That is just physically exhausting. That takes a toll after a while. And I don't know what we in business have done yet to be able to resolve that.
KOZLOWSKI -- We've tackled it a little differently in the last couple of years, where we've put about 8,000 of our managers through diversity training, approaching all types of issues, from creating a culture where a man or a woman can work from the home, to being much more flexible in their abilities to make contributions to a company, to being supportive of maternity leaves before Congress mandated them. And I think you really need to do that, because if not, you're going to eliminate an awful lot of talented people out of your pool of resources.
LAZARUS -- The smart C.E.O. has to do that. Why would you give up 50 percent of the population when talent's a scarce resource?
BOSSIDY -- I tell people: "Don't come in here on Saturday and Sunday unless something special is going on, because all you're going to do is become a bore. I mean, do something, music or whatever you like, but for heaven's sake, grow." They'll say, "How many Sundays do you work?" I work a couple of Sundays a year, only because something special is happening.
 
Q. What is the one thing about being a chief executive that you would change with a wave of your hand, if you could?
KOZLOWSKI -- I'd probably eliminate the jet plane, so that we wouldn't be expected to be in so many different places so often. Jets have really destroyed civilization.
WANG -- One thing is, don't perceive us C.E.O.'s as some kind of higher order of human beings. I really want to work with people and not have a meeting where everybody is, "He's here, so I've got to be on a different kind of behavior." I wish they would just relax.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: C.E.O. ROUNDTABLE -- Four chief executives talked frankly about doing what they do, from managing people to preparing their companies for the future. And they weren't shy about their compensation. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Photos/Chart
 
Lawrence A. Bossidy
Allied Signal
 
THE EXECUTIVE
Chief executive since 1991, chairman since 1992. Joined Allied Signal after 34 years at General Electric; will retire next year after merger with Honeywell. B.S. in economics, Colgate University, 1957. Age: 64.
THE COMPANY
Based in Morristown, N.J. Industrial conglomerate with interests in aerospace, chemicals, turbines and auto parts. Market capitalization: $33.74 billion (based on Friday's closing stock price).
 
L. Dennis Kozlowski
Tyco International
 
THE EXECUTIVE
Chief executive since 1992, chairman since 1993. Former chief executive of the Grinnell Corporation and the Ludlow Corporation. B.S., Seton Hall University, 1968. Background in finance. Age: 52.
THE COMPANY
Executive offices in Exeter, N.H. Diversified manu-facturing and services company with interests in fire protection, electronic security, medical products, electronic components and other businesses. Market capitalization: $88.48 billion.
 
Charles B. Wang
Computer Associates International
 
THE EXECUTIVE
Chairman, chief executive and founder of the company (as a joint venture in 1976; partners bought out in 1980). Born in Shanghai, emigrated to the United States as a child. B.S., Queens College, 1967. Age: 55.
THE COMPANY
Based in Islandia, N.Y. Second-largest indepen-dent computer software company after Microsoft, with strength in business applications and data management. Market capitalization: $31.18 billion.
 
Shelly Lazarus
Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide
 
THE EXECUTIVE
Chairman and chief executive since 1997; president of various units since 1989. B.A., Smith College, 1968; M.B.A., Columbia University, 1970. Age: 52.
THE COMPANY
New York-based advertising agency founded by David Ogilvy in 1948; since 1989, wholly owned by WPP Group, based in London. Ogilvy's gross worldwide billings in 1998: $8.8 billion. WPP market capitalization: $7.44 billion.
(Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TITLE: ;LESSONS FROM THE TOP (BOOK)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (57%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (53%); WPP (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (59%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED SIGNAL CORP; TYCO INTERNATIONAL CO; COMPUTER ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC; OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE CA INC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (83%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); WPP PLC (53%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED SIGNAL CORP; TYCO INTERNATIONAL CO; COMPUTER ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL INC; OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); LITERATURE (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BOSSIDY, LAWRENCE A; KOZLOWSKI, L DENNIS; WANG, CHARLES B; LAZARUS, SHELLY; NEFF, THOMAS J; CITRIN, JAMES M; ABELSON, REED ROCHELLE LAZARUS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



239 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times in the 90's

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Boom Generation" (Op-Ed, Oct. 8):
T. H. Watkins doesn't need to hearken back to the Great Depression to teach his Generation Y students a cautionary tale about economic downturns. When I graduated from Columbia in 1991, the school canceled a jobs fair because companies weren't interested in attending. The highest salary listed on the university's jobs board was $8 per hour. Contrary to what the economic revisionists say, the last recession lasted from 1988 to 1994. 
 Things have changed dramatically. Now hundreds of companies compete for my alma mater's newly minted graduates. Thoughout the 80's and early 90's, Gen Xers, who were then under 30, faced underemployment, hopelessness and staggering student loan debt. And for today's young people, optimistic as they may be, that last part hasn't changed.
 
TED RALL
New York, Oct. 8, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); GENERATION Y (88%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GENERATION X (73%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (70%); 

PERSON: RALL, TED; WATKINS, T H (PROF) TED RALL NEW YORK (55%); GEN XERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



240 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Correspondence/Vienna, Rightward;
Something's Afoot in Austria, But It Isn't Goose-Stepping

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: VIENNA

 BODY:
WEDGED inside a crowd in Vienna's central square, listening to a politician harangue the throng while 200 student demonstrators behind you scream "Nazis, raus! Nazis, raus!" at him, it's important to quell those waves of memory and remind yourself: You don't speak German, stupid. Forget all those black-and-white films you watched as a kid. This isn't "Triumph of the Will" even if you're getting the guttural aural cues. It was your father who was in on the Normandy landing; you only caught the flick.
Outsiders often think they spot Naziism on the march in German-speaking countries. It's a conditioned reflex, the same way African newspapers love to run big pictures of tiny Ku Klux Klan rallies, leaving the impression that every third American is a Klansman. 
 One American TV report on the 27 percent showing by Jorg Haider's right-wing Freedom Party in voting here last week worked in old clips of goose-stepping soldiers and a fulminating Hitler. An Israeli headline said: "One Out of Every Four Austrians Chose a Neo-Nazi Chancellor."
That offended even Austrians who detest Mr. Haider (whose party tied for second and is highly unlikely to become Chancellor).
In fact, my translator said, the speaker was criticizing the gap between the pay of Austrian bank presidents and working stiffs. It's true that when Mr. Haider complains about "Uberfremdung," or over-foreignization, even Austrians say the word has a certain "Deutschland Uber Alles" ring to it. But the overtly racial element of Naziism is lacking. It's similar to the sentiment expressed in Ross Perot's "giant sucking sound" from south of the border -- nativist populism.
Even here, it isn't necessarily racial. An Egyptian taxi driver, Hassan Ramy, told me he was a Haider voter. What about his anti-immigrant feelings? I asked. He's against the ones who don't have papers, he answered.
True, Austria was long criticized for failing to deal with its Nazi past; for years, while Germany apologized, it portrayed itself as Germany's first victim. And Mr. Haider has made what a Jewish leader in his party called "a couple of stupid remarks that are constantly quoted."
In one, he retorted in the heat of debate that the Third Reich had a sounder employment policy than the governing Social Democrats, and in another he told a veterans' reunion that included some Waffen SS soldiers that they were "decent people who stuck to their belief through the strongest headwinds."
Neither at the Vienna gathering I attended nor at a noisy beer-tent rally in Mr. Haider's home area, near the Slovenian and Italian borders, did his supporters harp on race. "Sixty percent of the people here, I think, are protest votes," said Hans Hechenleitner, 53, explaining that people felt the ruling Social Democratic-conservative coalition in Vienna left them feeling powerless. "There's not racism, except maybe among some of the uneducated ones, and you have also this difference in the U.S., is it not so?"
I asked Mr. Hechenleitner about something Mr. Haider has said in Vienna, complaining about the "extremist" tag: "People say I'll declare war on Slovenia if I'm elected. But that's not true. In my area, we have good relations with the Italians and Slovenians."
The reaction suggested Mr. Haider had gone a bit bleeding heart in pandering to the urbane Viennese. Mr. Hechenleitner and his friend, Horst Assam, 62, looked at each other. Mr. Hechenleitner finally spoke, betraying the Austrian mistrust of outsiders: "No, you can't say we like them. But we work together."
THERE is definitely something creepy about Mr. Haider's xenophobia and how many Austrians it appeals to. Austria is in the middle of Europe and has been overrun by a lot of peoples -- and Austrians themselves are often eager to enumerate their diverse ethnic backgrounds for you. But there's something in at least 27 percent of the country that wants to shut the door, and it lives even in the breasts of Egypto-Austrian cabbies. Andreas Rudas, a senior tactitian for the Social Democratic Party, called it "the omnibus effect," as in, "Once I'm on the bus, I want the doors to close so it doesn't get crowded."
What liberal leaders find disturbing is less Mr. Haider's rhetoric on race than his oratory on crime -- which, by extension, whips up fear of foreigners. Prodded by his claims that it is coddling drug dealers, the Government launched a series of drug raids. "But the subtext becomes anti-black, anti-Nigerian," said Georg Hoffman-Ostenhof, a political columnist for the weekly Profil, even though the black population is minuscule.
WITH 4 percent unemployment, health care for all and a negligible murder rate here, it's a mystery why a lot of Austrians are convinced that their tiny nation is a hotbed of crime.
"What drug dealers?" my translator, who weighs about 100 pounds and feels safe bicycling anywhere in Vienna at night, asked Horst Thaler, a 66-year-old in a Tyrolean jacket at a rally for Mr. Haidar's party.
"Look in the Karlsplatz," he said.
It was a subway station a few blocks away, so we did. By Times Square standards, it's an Alpine village. By Austrian standards, it's littered, and there were several unwashed guys begging for "Zigaretten."
On election night, coming home from watching the late returns, I passed the Karlsplatz again. The beggar who approached me was, I presume, Austrian; he was polite and completely bilingual.
Then a music event nearby let out, and a crowd came surging toward the tram. They climbed on, loud and obnoxious, practically shouting at each other. They were from North Carolina and California, they were in black tie and had hearing aids. They were ticked: They didn't know the opera in Vienna begins at 6, and they had missed the whole first act.
Uberfremdung.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SLOVENIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NORMANDY, FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA; AUSTRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SLOVENIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (78%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); IMMIGRATION (62%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; HAIDER, JORG JORG HAIDER (95%); HANS HECHENLEITNER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



241 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Now, State of Siege, Colombian Style

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A Latin American country slides toward chaos. Leftist guerrillas attack the government, right-wing death squads attack guerrilla sympathizers, peace talks falter. The economy spirals downward, scattering thousands of refugees, and fears of instability sweep through the region. The United States hurries to the rescue with hundreds of millions of dollars in aid.
With the Colombian Government facing its most serious crisis in years, Clinton Administration officials confirmed last week that they are putting together a package of military and economic assistance that could reach dimensions not seen in the hemisphere since the cold war. They are also trying to reassure anyone who will listen that Colombia today really looks nothing like El Salvador once did. 
 The United States will not be giving Colombia lots of sophisticated weapons and aircraft, the officials say, nor will legions of Colombian soldiers be training at Ft. Bragg. American military advisers in Colombia are to help troops there fight the drug trade rather than insurgents, except where the insurgents protect the trade. "There are, in my view, few if any really logical, easy comparisons to make between El Salvador 10 years ago and Colombia now," said the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Thomas R. Pickering, who once presided over the military build-up in El Salvador as the United States Ambassador there.
Still, there are many in the Administration and many more outside it who see quicksand in Colombia. The government that Washington is supporting in Bogota is weak and increasingly unpopular. The army it trains has been ineffective on the battlefield and frequently complicit in the massacres of civilians by rightist paramilitary groups. The rebel armies it hopes to bend have held out in the jungles for decades. The Administration is also on unsteady ground at home: For domestic political reasons, it has proclaimed a central goal in Colombia -- curtailing the drug trade -- that will likely mislead Americans about what it hopes to achieve there.
What has panicked both the Clinton Administration and Congressional Republicans is not so much the latest turn in Colombia's cocaine problem as the growing troubles of its new President, Andres Pastrana. Little more than a year after Mr. Pastrana came to power with bold concessions intended to bring the biggest rebel army to the negotiating table, the talks are stalled in the earliest stages, the guerrillas appear stronger and more recalcitrant and the President is widely criticized as naive. Unrest within the armed forces has surged and paramilitary killings have continued. The country's long-buoyant economy, having made it through the regional debt crisis of the 1980's relatively unscathed, is suffering its most severe recession in decades.
Whether the United States sinks deeper into Colombia's troubles or helps to solve them may ultimately depend a good deal on how it defines its objectives there. Over the last three months, officials have gone to unusual lengths to reconsider those aims: Working groups have been set up, strategy papers have been prepared and assistant secretaries of all sorts have shuttled back and forth to Bogota. Yet even as that review got under way, senior officials seemed to limit its parameters: The center of American policy, they insisted -- "the spear point," as Mr. Pickering put it -- will remain the illicit drug trade.
Colombia's drug problem has taken a significant turn for the worse. Over the last several years, as the authorities in Bolivia and Peru have made headway in intercepting drug planes and helping poor farmers supplant crops of coca, the raw material of cocaine, drug producers have sharply expanded their fields in remote, sparsely populated areas of southern Colombia. That shift has strengthened both the Colombian producers and their guerrilla allies, who profit by taxing the coca fields and hiring out to guard jungle air strips and drug-processing labs.
Nonetheless, the drug "emergency" that some senior United States officials have begun to describe does not necessarily threaten new waves of cocaine washing onto American streets. It is not clear how or even whether the shifting of coca crops around the region will affect the availability or price of cocaine abroad. Nor, despite technological advances in tracking drug shipments through the Caribbean, can the Administration promise that better-funded interdiction efforts will seriously reduce the flows of cocaine and heroin into the United States.
According to several officials, most of the aid proposals being circulated internally would give relatively short shrift to such basic (and comparatively inexpensive) solutions as the training of Colombia's judges and the strengthening of its notoriously porous prisons. Instead, American "counternarcotics" aid will aim to help the security forces beat back the guerrillas in southern Colombia so that crop-spraying and lab raids can proceed. As illogical as the assurance increasingly sounds, Administration officials continue to insist that the United States will stay out of the civil war.
In private, at least, such officials are more candid about acknowledging that a decade after the cold war's end, the drug fight is the only policy objective likely to win political support for the $1 billion to $2 billion in aid that they have talked of putting forward over the next three years. (Even then, a Colombia package will have to compete in the weeks ahead with foreign-aid proposals ranging from help for peacekeeping in Africa to support for the Israeli-Palestinian peace accords.)
It is hardly disputed that the United States has other significant interests in Colombia, from oil fields to radar stations to the stability of a democratic ally. In recent months, State Department and National Security Council officials, in particular, have pressed for what they call a more "integrated" approach -- one that might include trade benefits, development aid and human rights programs as well as military support. But as Colombia's military leaders showed their wish lists around Washington last week, it appeared that some central issues remained unresolved: how the beleaguered military might best be strengthened, how the guerrillas might be drawn into serious talks, and how those two goals interlock.
IN a July 20 letter to Mr. Pastrana, President Clinton suggested a new point of departure for American policy, saying, "The hardest step may be the first: convincing all sides in Colombia that a military solution is not possible and that all will gain from a negotiated settlement." But neither Mr. Clinton nor his senior aides have explained clearly how this might be achieved. Administration officials have begun trying to recruit other Latin American countries and United Nations mediators to bring pressure on both sides. In the meantime, the search for a comprehensive strategy in Colombia continues to resemble a free-for-all in which different factions of the Administration have put forward different aid proposals -- many of them with different implications for how to wage peace.
Some United States officials, including the commander of American military forces in Latin America, Gen. Charles E. Wilhelm, argue that only significant reverses on the battlefield will bring the rebels to the bargaining table. But at the pace at which the United States is now training and re-equipping the Colombian military, officials say it could take years to start changing the military balance. Critics of the policy also ask what might happen if Colombia's generals gain unexpected ground against the guerrillas -- and decide to continue fighting in order to press for a better deal.
"So far, the thinking has not gone much beyond, 'Let's get some helicopters in there,' " said Michael Shifter, a senior fellow at the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy research group based in Washington.
Viewed from Washington, the greatest difference between Colombia in 1999 and El Salvador in 1979 may be that virtually no one in the White House now believes Colombia's Government is in any immediate danger of falling to the rebels. That consensus may make it harder for officials to argue for a huge "emergency" infusion of American aid. It could, however, be the basis for an approach to Colombia's problems that might be sustained even when the flow of illicit drugs fails to miraculously end.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victims of a rebel attack northwest of Bogota, Colombia. The United States is preparing a major package of aid to the Government. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EL SALVADOR (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); COCAINE (68%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



242 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Rx Redux;
Fevered Issue, Second Opinion

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE signs are unmistakable: Washington is rediscovering the health care crisis. It did not, after all, go away with the failure of the Clinton Administration's attempt at universal coverage in 1994.
New Census data show the number of uninsured Americans is climbing, in the face of an extraordinary economic boom. The cost of health insurance, after a few years of stability, is rising as well. The House of Representatives spent last week in angry, anguished debate over the state of the nation's health care, then passed a sweeping new bill to rein in the managed care industry and protect patients' rights. And out on the Presidential campaign trail, candidates are beginning to offer their solutions -- with much political forethought -- to the increasingly apparent problems of access, cost and coverage. 
 President Clinton all but snapped an "I told you so" when confronted with the Census numbers last week. "We told you in 1994 that if this were voted down, the insurance companies would continue to drop people, or employers would, because of the system we had," he said, clearly stung by the notion that 44.3 million uninsured Americans would be part of his legacy.
The new politics of health care is, not surprisingly, framed by the failure of the Clinton plan. Even as the uninsured return to the political agenda, nobody is out campaigning for a plan on the scale of Mr. Clinton's -- or, for that matter, for anything like what was routinely discussed by several Democratic Presidential candidates in 1992 with what now seems breathtaking naivete.
Even as some experts bemoan the shortcomings of piecemeal, incremental steps to expand health care coverage, much of the political class seems committed to the approach; witness the package of tax breaks intended to encourage coverage that Republicans in the House passed to much fanfare last week.
Still, the past seven years have in some ways profoundly changed the lay of the land: Managed care is no longer a theory but a reality for most Americans. The Clinton Administration did not restructure the health care system, but the private sector did. As Bob Blendon, an expert on public opinion and health at Harvard, put it, it was a "top-down" revolution that people never got to vote on.
Hence the backlash: The most popular enemy on Capitol Hill last week was not the bureaucrats in "big government," as it was during the struggle over Mr. Clinton's 1,342-page health plan, but the bureaucrats in health maintenance organizations and other forms of managed care. Government regulation, in fact, was presented as a necessary check on out-of-control H.M.O.'s; Representative Charlie Norwood, a conservative Republican dentist from Georgia who was elected to Congress in 1994 as a fierce opponent of the Clinton plan, was now standing shoulder to shoulder with the Democrats and Mr. Clinton, leading the charge against H.M.O.'s.
Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for People and the Press, says this concern about the power of H.M.O.'s has made health care more of an issue for middle-class working people with coverage. The percentage of people polled by the Pew Center who say "reforming health care" should be a top priority rose from 56 percent in January 1997 to 69 percent in January 1999. A particularly big jump occurred among men aged 30 to 49, Mr. Kohut said. This helps explain why a Republican-controlled House, much of whose leadership is deeply uncomfortable with government regulation, passed the managed care reform bill by such a lopsided vote last week.
THE managed care backlash is only one piece of the health care puzzle, although perhaps the easiest piece politically. To many health care planners and lawmakers on Capitol Hill, the primary concern is the steady rise in the uninsured, many of whom are low- and moderate-income workers.
"I worry what will happen when there's a recession," said Dr. Judith Feder, dean of policy studies at Georgetown University and a former top health adviser to the Clinton Administration. "If low-wage workers are in trouble in good times, where will they be in bad?"
Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, says voters raise similar concerns in focus groups, something she calls the Jack Nicholson effect: "What if this is as good as it gets?"
Still, politicians have only recently begun to venture near the issue again; there are no easy fixes for the uninsured, big solutions carry big price tags and the cost, complexity and political ham-handedness of the Clinton plan are painful, lingering memories.
It is no coincidence that Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley are leading the way; concern about the uninsured tends to be higher among Democratic primary voters, according to Ms. Lake.
Deborah Steelman, who is advising Gov. George W. Bush of Texas on health care, said the issue is "really on his radar screen," particularly the plight of low-income workers who lack insurance, but she also indicated that his health care proposal was not imminent.
Still, while concern may be rising, even many voters who worry about the uninsured are wary of big solutions, some analysts say. "I just don't think there's a mood out there for some big government program that involves big intervention," Mr. Blendon said.
Mr. Bradley's plan, which won praise for its boldness because it set a goal of universal "access" to health insurance, was a careful political document that avoided the new governmental structures and mandates of the Clinton plan. (Even so, its estimated $65 billion a year cost may eventually prove a tempting target.)
In fact, the constituency for "health care reform" is divided and complicated, several experts said. Some voters are insured but angry at their H.M.O.'s. Some voters are motivated by the plight of the uninsured, and others are mostly concerned about Medicare and coverage for prescription drugs. "I just don't think this health care issue is a cohesive issue the way it was in 1992," said Mr. Blendon.
MOREOVER, what some experts see as the most worrisome trend in health care -- rising costs -- is the most difficult to discuss politically. Managed care leaders have tried hard to make the case that putting new mandates on the industry -- particularly opening it up to lawsuits -- would raise costs that would ultimately be passed on to employers and consumers. And industry officials seem stunned at times at how little credit they get for making care more efficient and, at least for a while, for controlling costs.
But cost-control in health care is a risky business: the cost-containment provisions in the Clinton plan led to fears of rationing. And the gatekeepers and referral requirements of managed care led to one horrific anecdote after another on the floor of the House last week about dying children and heedless bureaucrats on the other end of the phone.
Some experts worry that the managed care revolution has already squeezed out the easy savings. "I've thought for many years that there was an underlying upward trend in medical spending because of the increase in new capabilities in medicine, which we're now seeing fairly dramatically in pharmaceuticals," said Joseph Newhouse, a professor of health policy and management at Harvard. He suggested that after "some one-time gains from the managed care revolution" that upward trend may be reasserting itself.
Rising health care costs, of course, can have a direct effect on the number of uninsured. And higher costs can raise profound questions of equity; for example, Congress is currently struggling with the fairness of a Medicare program that lacks prescription drug coverage, just when the pharmaceutical revolution offers immense promise for many of the ills of old age.
The complex, interlocking nature of these issues pushed the Clinton Administration -- and many other health planners, for that matter -- to go for a grand, comprehensive plan. Working on these problems with incremental measures, step by step, is harder, some health planners say, but is probably all the political system can handle.
Families USA, a consumer group, and the Health Insurance Association of America plan to convene a conference of past combatants to try to seek common ground on the uninsured. Ms. Steelman, a lobbyist and longtime Republican adviser, said of the larger struggle: "This isn't about one big-bang theory. This is about trying to balance costs and needs and rights. It's the crucible of American politics. It's where it all comes together."
Advocates for the uninsured take heart from the fact that, at the very least, the eerie political silence around 44.3 million Americans is breaking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (The Stock Market)
 
Chart: "The Uninsured: Who Are They?"
An estimated 44.3 million people, or 16.3 percent of the United States population, had no health insurance in 1998. Shown is the percentage of selected groups who are uninsured.
 
Age
 
Under 18 -- 15.4
18 to 24 -- 30.0
25 to 34 -- 23.7
35 to 44 -- 17.2
45 to 64 -- 14.2
65 and older: -- 1.1
 
Race/ethnicity
 
Non-Hispanic/white -- 11.9
Black -- 22.2
Asian -- 21.1
Hispanic origin -- 35.3
 
Education
 
No high school diploma -- 26.7
H.S. grad., only -- 18.3
Some college -- 15.9
Assoc. degree -- 12.3
Bachelor's degree or higher -- 8.5
 
Work experience
 
Worked sometime during year -- 18.0
Worked full time -- 16.9
Worked part time -- 23.2
Did not work -- 27.0
 
Place of birth
 
U.S. born -- 14.4
Foreign-born -- 34.1
Naturalized citizen -- 19.2
Not a citizen -- 42.9
 
(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CENSUS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



243 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: When the Stars Come Out to Play Politics

BYLINE: By Michael Beschloss; Michael Beschloss, author of "Taking Charge," the first of a trilogy on the Lyndon Johnson tapes, is writing a history of the Lincoln assassination.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
It looks as if Mad magazine is scripting Presidential politics. Donald Trump has announced his Presidential exploratory committee. He is dreaming of Vice President Oprah Winfrey, insisting that if the talk show host runs with him, they will win. The actress Cybill Shepherd is said to be pondering her own chances for the White House. Can Rob Lowe, star of the new NBC drama "The West Wing," be far behind?
No one can imagine that any of these candidates -- including more serious yet unconventional aspirants like Jesse Ventura and Warren Beatty -- will succeed Bill Clinton. Some have said that Mr. Trump's motive is to flog the latest volume in his life story, remembering what the whispers about a Presidential bid did for Colin Powell's book sales in 1995. With the economy zooming along and no war on the horizon, Americans may feel that politics is less directly connected to their lives and that they may as well indulge themselves in some harmless entertainment. 
 But there is more to the phenomenon of celebrity politics than that. The rise of the celebrity candidate alerts us to certain aspects of Presidential politics at the turn of the century, just as the rise of Prohibition party candidates 100 years ago (including the aptly named Silas Swallow) was a harbinger of a grand and frustrating national experiment.
At one level, this is merely the inevitable, absurd consequence of a system that is no longer about working your way up the ladder. By creating a system of front-loaded primaries to choose their nominees, the Democrats and Republicans unwittingly placed a high premium on exactly what many celebrities have: instant national name recognition, money (or access to it) and the ability to play to the cameras. Although his chances of winning are slight, Mr. Beatty could win a significant portion of the vote in early Democratic primaries, especially if he presented himself as the avatar of the party's disenfranchised left.
In the past, candidates for major party nominations who get lavish attention have usually been officeholders or generals. If the spotlight fell on a private citizen, it was usually some grave figure like Wendell Willkie, the New York utilities sachem nominated by the Republicans to oppose Franklin Roosevelt's third term.
These candidates did not simply plunge into the contest and pour their own money into television. They were vetted by the political establishment. Although a political neophyte, Willkie had to withstand the scrutiny of the Northeastern junto of lawyers, bankers and publishers who in those days could throw their weight around within the Republican Party and who rammed the Wall Street millionaire through on the sixth ballot.
Were Mr. Beatty to seek the Democratic nomination under the old system, he would have had to go with hat in hand to the bosses, governors, members of Congress and other party leaders who chose delegations. Although the actor has been a player in Democratic politics for more than 30 years, the Old Guard would almost certainly have sent him packing.
Nowadays, insurgent candidates outside the two parties have a much better ability than ever before to get themselves and their messages across to the voters. Had Donald Trump run in, say, 1932, he would have had to depend on Walter Lippmann and other political journalists to tell Americans what they thought of him and his ideas. (It is not hard to imagine the reaction of Lippmann, who with his delicate sensibilities refused to accept money from his father because it came from tenement rents, to the candidate Trump.)
But Mr. Trump does not need to pay court to today's gatekeepers. He can go on "Larry King Live" and the Internet to reach exactly the voters who might find his candidacy appealing. Television and the Web have become the great equalizers between professional politicians and those famous people who think it might be cool to be President. At a time when a sitting President can no longer command automatic attention from all networks when he gives a speech, a real estate developer can make himself one more face on the screen, right alongside an incumbent Vice President, a Governor and a former Senator.
Just as in 1952 and 1976, when Dwight Eisenhower and then Jimmy Carter were elected, this is a moment in which nonpoliticians can have the upper hand. Even though the anti-government frenzy of the early 1990's has faded, no candidate in 2000 would dream of reviving the slogan that Vice President Richard Nixon used in 1960: "It's Experience That Counts."
Instead Al Gore moves to Nashville, Bill Bradley gives short shrift to his 18 years in the Senate and George W. Bush stresses that he lives in Austin, Tex., not Washington.
All three may have more in common with Donald Trump and Warren Beatty than they care to admit: fame, money and access to the airwaves. And, paradoxically, they may be able to get away with demonstrating less substance on the issues than the third party hopefuls can.
History shows that the most successful third party candidates in this century got a large number of votes not because of their technique, money or entertainment value -- which in some ways was as considerable at the start of the century as it is at the end -- but because they fought for issues that the major parties were ignoring.
As the Bull Moose nominee in 1912, former President Theodore Roosevelt won 27 percent of the vote because he argued that his handpicked Republican successor, President William Howard Taft, had dropped the ball on Progressive reform.
George Wallace captured 13 percent in 1968 by appealing to white Southerners and urban ethnic voters who felt left behind by Lyndon Johnson's Great Society and who were fuming about civil rights and "the breakdown of law and order."
Ross Perot won 19 percent of the popular vote in 1992, not because of his homespun quips about his large ears and his business acumen, but because he convinced voters that deficits were ruining the country and that, if elected, he would seek a balanced budget far more strenuously than his opponents.
If Republicans and Democrats settle early on nominees who seem to agree on the preponderance of issues, a celebrity insurgent could make a contribution as the champion of a cause that is going unaddressed.
But if the economy starts to collapse or if the country faces a foreign crisis, the threshold for leadership is likely to magically rise once again. After all, when the United States became a world power a century ago, the voters put a stop to the age of journeymen Presidents like Rutherford B. Hayes and Benjamin Harrison.
When that new seriousness arrives, as it will, this flukish moment in our politics will evaporate -- a luxury that we could no longer afford.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (R. O. Blechman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD; BEATTY, WARREN; BESCHLOSS, MICHAEL DONALD TRUMP (90%); OPRAH WINFREY (72%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



244 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Rara Avisat G.M.: A Director From Japan

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
When Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's chief executive, was named to the board of General Motors last week, he joined only a handful of other Asian executives who are directors of United States companies. Among the few are Goro Watanabe, vice chairman of Mitsui Chemicals, who serves on DuPont's board, and Minoru Makihara, chairman of Mitsubishi, who is on I.B.M.'s.
Despite all the corporate talk of globalization, big business often leaves its multinationalism at the board-room door. 
 John T. W. Hawkins, a managing director at Russell Reynolds Associates, a headhunting firm in New York, says very few executives are willing to cross the Pacific to attend frequent board meetings. And given the turmoil in Asian economies, he added, American companies have become even less willing to try recruiting directors in Asia.
But companies are more likely to look to Europe, he said. European directors can make a day trip out of a board meeting by hopping on the Concorde, particularly if the company is based in New York. No such snappy commutes are possible from Tokyo or Seoul.
 REED ABELSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nobuyuki Idei

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4183 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (58%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MITSUI CHEMICALS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); RUSSELL REYNOLDS ASSOCIATES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: IDEI, NOBUYUKI; ABELSON, REED NOBUYUKI IDEI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



245 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: The New York Times Business Best Sellers

 BODY:

HARDCOVER
 
This Month / Last Month 

1+ / 1 -- LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $21.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
 
2+ / 3 -- WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
 
3 / 2 -- ETHICS FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM by the Dalai Lama (Riverhead, $24.95). The ethical system Buddhism offers for life and work, including appropriate strategies for interaction.
4 / - -- FASTER: The AcCeleration of Just About Everything by James Gleick (Pantheon, $24). How technologies that were meant to create leisure time have instead given rise to multitasking our way through work and life.
 
5+ / 7 -- FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Based on 80,000 interviews.
 
6* / 5 -- THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE by Thomas L. Friedman (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50). A columnist and former correspondent for The Times explains the electronic global economy.
7+ / - -- SMART WOMEN FINISH RICH by David Bach (Broadway, $25). A program for achieving financial security.
 
8* / 4 -- SEE JANE WIN by Sylvia Rimm with Sara Rimm-Kaufman and Ilonna Rimm (Crown, $25). The experiences of 1,000 girls as they became successful women.
 
9+ / 6 -- BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway (Warner, $30). The chairman of Microsoft discusses how technology is changing the ways business is done.
 
10 / - -- CUSTOMERS.COM by Patricia B. Seybold, R. T. Marshak and Ronni Marshak (Times Books, $27.50). How to create a profitable strategy for doing business on the Internet.
 
PAPERBACKS
 
This Month / Last Month
 
1+ / 2 -- THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/S&S, $14). Principles for success.
2+ / 1 -- THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
3+ / - -- SECRET FORMULAS OF THE WIZARD OF ADS by Roy H. Williams (Bard Press, $16.95). A philosophical view of the advertising and marketing industries.
4 / 4 -- RICH DAD, POOR DAD by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Techpress, $15.95). What the wealthy teach their children about money that other parents do not.
 
5 / - -- TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller Sr. by Ron Cherow (Vintage, $16). A portrait of the oil mogul and philanthropist.
 
Rankings are based on September figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); BESTSELLERS (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (76%); ETHICS (76%); LITERATURE (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); WRITERS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); CHILDREN (60%); RELIGION (56%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (55%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); BILL GATES (50%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



246 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Faces Two Big Tests in South

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: ROCK HILL, S.C., Oct. 6

 BODY:
It has been more than 50 years since any state banned an existing form of gambling, but a drive around the border roads of York County helps explain why South Carolina is poised to do just that.
Video poker is everywhere. Its robotic musical signature drones from gambling machines in virtually every gas station and convenience store as mesmerized players feed in dollar after dollar to play five-card stud and blackjack. Gaudy windowless parlors with five machines to a room greet visitors who cross the state line from North Carolina. The industry crept up on the state through a series of back-door legal moves, but 34,000 of the machines have now taken root across South Carolina, far more than in any other state, and many people have had enough. 
 On Nov. 2, voters will have a choice to either ban the machines beginning next summer or regulate them more closely. The latest newspaper poll shows that a sizable majority of likely voters -- more than 60 percent, in one poll -- want the machines permanently unplugged.
That vote, and another one on Tuesday in which Alabama will decide whether to institute a state lottery, will be among the most important tests in years of whether gambling's steady growth in the Southern Bible Belt has finally reached its limit. Although the lottery is more accepted and far less intrusive than video gambling, several polls show that its popularity in Alabama has dropped in recent months. The outcome of next week's lottery vote, which once seemed certain to pass, is now considered a tossup.
"These are very big symbolic votes coming up," said William N. Thompson, a gambling industry expert and public administration professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. "The last time a state voted out gambling was in 1948, when Idaho banned slot machines. It will be a very big victory for the anti-gambling side if it's thrown out in South Carolina."
Alabama's Governor, Donald Siegelman, campaigned almost exclusively on a promise to create a lottery, and is selling it as the only way to create a pre-kindergarten program and a college scholarship program similar to that in neighboring Georgia and other states. Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina, who also ran on a pro-lottery platform and accepted about $3 million from video poker interests, now says he is opposed to video poker. His state's lottery will be on the ballot in November of 2000.
In both of the coming votes, gambling proponents have encountered large and potent coalitions of religious groups, but the size of the opposition in South Carolina has been particularly remarkable. Virtually every denomination in the state -- including Southern Baptists, Presbyterians and Jews -- has joined in well-organized coalitions to get anti-poker voters registered and to the polls. They have been joined by the South Carolina Chamber of Commerce and most large businesses, which are worried about the state's image, and most editorial pages. The state election commission has reported a noticeable burst in voter registrations in the last two months.
"The social cost and the implications for our citizens were already huge," said Paula Harper Bethea, chairwoman of the South Carolina chamber. "But we also think it has a negative economic impact on the state, because it greatly affects our image. We're struggling to get ahead in a lot of areas, and we have a good quality of life, and we think we deserve better than video poker."
The 2,300-member chamber, the state's largest business organization, is running television and radio advertisements against the machines, while an anti-gambling group, Legacy Alliance, is putting up billboards. Meanwhile, religious groups are distributing yard signs and building grass-roots support. A recent rally in Rock Hill, a hotbed of anti-poker sentiment, drew a crowd of 3,500 to protest the effects of video gambling.
Opponents have an endless sheaf of stories about middle-class parents who lost their life savings to a video poker addiction, or poor families who spend their food money in the parlors. But they have been careful not to make the vote a referendum on the merits of gambling itself. The Rev. Steve Hogg, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Rock Hill and a prominent leader of the anti-poker forces, said many people in his coalition approved of lotteries or horse racing, though he does not, and so they decided to focus on the one issue that united them.
"We couldn't have put this coalition together if the lottery was on the table, but we all agree that video poker is the most destructive and addictive form of gambling there is," said Mr. Hogg, a conservative Southern Baptist who wore a blue Vote No button on his shirt pocket. "I'm not one of those Christians who believes in outlawing everything I think is sinful or immoral. I'm part of the community, and we have to be pragmatic about what we consider to be life-or-death issues."
Most of the support for the machines has come from the state's video poker industry, which has revenue of about $2.8 billion a year and has raised about $2 million on the campaign to keep the machines, more than twice as much as its opponents. Supporters say the state will lose $200 million to $300 million in yearly tax revenue if the machines are banned, and predict that 28,000 people will lose their jobs. Many video parlors and gas stations are plastered with fliers that cast the issue in terms of personal freedom, saying that the next step is to ban the Internet or rock music.
Since the poll was published by The State, in Columbia, and five other newspapers last month, the pro-poker forces have intensified their broadcast advertising and direct mailings, and are building a get-out-the-vote effort among poker employees and players to rival that of the churches. But many who have watched the issue say the industry may have grown too large to stay alive.
"I think it's tightened up since the poll," said John Cavanaugh, a political science professor at the University of South Carolina. "But there's still a strong anti-gambling feeling that's catching hold in the state. Everyone sees the machines when they go to the gas station, and many people know someone with an addiction problem. The tide seems to be turning."
There is a considerable sentiment against the lottery in Alabama, as well, again led by church groups, but the intensity of the opposition is less than in South Carolina because of the nature of the game. Many people consider the lottery less addictive and less harmful than video poker, and are jealous of the lottery-financed college scholarships offered to Georgia students.
"If this fails, there is no Plan B," said Rick Dent, a spokesman for the Alabama Education Lottery Foundation, which is running the pro-lottery campaign. "This is our one chance to ever have college scholarships, pre-K and computers in the schools. If there were another way to pay for them, surely we would already have them."
But lottery opponents have also repeated a frequent criticism of the numbers game: most tickets are purchased by poorer residents, a large number of whom are black, while the scholarships tend to go to middle-class white students. Church leaders said they were particularly angered by a statement from Governor Siegelman several weeks ago that opponents of the lottery should be ashamed of themselves, and they said no other issue had brought different denominations so closely together.
"We simply believe that government should not fund itself with money from the people who can least afford it," said Michael Anderson, executive director of the Mobile Baptist Association, which represents about 100 churches.
Mr. Siegelman later said he respected those who disagree with him on religious or moral grounds, but pollsters say the intense church-by-church mobilization has significantly eroded support for the lottery. A poll conducted by three newspapers and published this week showed that 51 percent of likely voters said they supported the lottery, down from 61 percent in August.
"Remember, every church in Alabama has a bus," said Eric Johnston, a Birmingham lawyer who is treasurer of the largest anti-lottery coalition. "And on Tuesday, they're all heading for the polls."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Carolinians will vote next month on whether to ban video poker machines. The state has 34,000 of the machines, and signs like this one just south of Pineville, N.C., greet people upon arrival in South Carolina. (Donna Bise for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAMING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LOTTERIES (89%); POKER (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CARD GAMES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); RELIGION (70%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



247 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Jolts Canadians With a Plea On Federalism

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 9

 BODY:
Canadians on both sides of the nation's deep linguistic divide say they were stunned by President Clinton's unexpectedly passionate appeal here for national unity and federalism.
President Clinton traveled to the flashpoint of separatism in North America and without once mentioning Quebec nationalism argued on Friday that "the United States and Canada are among the most fortunate countries in the world because we have such diversity." 
 If every major "racial and ethnic and religious group" won independence, "we might have 800 countries in the world and have a very difficult time having a functioning economy," Mr. Clinton said, addressing a forum on federalism that earlier in the week had become a platform for complaints by Quebec separatists. "Maybe we would have 8,000 -- how low can you go?"
"The great irony of the turning of the millennium is that we have more modern options for technology and economic advance than ever before, but our major threat is the most primitive human failing -- the fear of the other," he said at Mont Tremblant, north of Montreal.
"We must think of how we will live after the shooting stops, after the smoke clears, over the long run," the President said. National independence, he warned, is often "a questionable assertion in a global economy where cooperation pays greater benefits in every area than destructive competition."
American leaders traditionally sidestep the hornet's nest of the separatist aspirations of many Quebecers, the central political quandary of Canada for the last three decades. In turn, Canadians put extraordinary weight on the words of the President of the United States, the nation that dominates Canada's foreign trade and investment.
Canada's widely read weekend papers, English and French, viewed the speech as a strong argument for Quebec's remaining inside Canada.
President Clinton made "a powerful argument in favor of federalism, which he describes as the political regime of the future," Vincent Marissal wrote in La Presse, a Montreal daily that bills itself as the largest-circulation French newspaper of the Americas. "But his message on the merits of federalism went much further, questioning even the usefulness of the nationalist projects in the era of globalization."
The English-speaking media were less restrained.
"Clinton Sings Praises of United Canada," read a banner headline in The Montreal Gazette, one of only two surviving English language daily newspapers in Quebec.
The National Post, a conservative newspaper, hailed Mr. Clinton's "historic speech" with a banner headline, "Clinton Takes a Swing at Separatists."
The Globe and Mail, Canada's other nationally circulated newspaper, declared, "Mr. Clinton's speech was the most powerful and subtle argument in favor of the federal idea heard in Quebec in years."
Quebec separatists sought to make the best of the speech, noting that Mr. Clinton had praised the European Union, a relationship they see as a model for future ties between an independent Quebec and "English Canada."
Separatists also noted that after the speech Mr. Clinton met with Quebec's Premier, Lucien Bouchard, the first such meeting between an American President and a separatist Premier.
But Mr. Clinton did not allow photographs, kept the meeting to 15 minutes, and then rushed off to a photo opportunity and golf with Canada's Prime Minister, Jean Chretien.
On Oct. 30, 1995, Quebec voters came within a whisker of approving a third nation for North America. In a referendum with a huge turnout, the yes vote for an independent Quebec was 49.4 percent.
But austerity policies adopted by Mr. Bouchard's government seem to have contributed to a fall in separatist support, currently said in opinion polls to be around 40 percent. Consequently, Mr. Bouchard has been vague about holding what would be a third referendum on the issue since 1980. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

COMPANY: GLOBE & MAIL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LINGUISTICS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (60%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



248 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Faults Senate Over Hispanic Judicial Nominees

BYLINE: By BILL DEDMAN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 9

 BODY:
President Clinton told a national Hispanic group today that the Senate was a black hole of delay, unwilling to vote for his Hispanic nominees for Federal judgeships but afraid to vote against them.
"Now I don't know about you, but if I took three and a half years to make a decision, you wouldn't think I was a very good President," Mr. Clinton said. 
 The President was warmly received today at the annual conference of the Hispanic Leadership Institute, a nonpartisan organization that promotes voter registration and training of Hispanic officials.
He credited the Clinton-Gore Administration for a growing economy, particularly this week's report that household incomes of Hispanic Americans are growing faster than those of other Americans.
But he devoted much of his address to the judicial nominees.
He said it was not an isolated incident this week when the Senate rejected his nominee for the Federal District Court in Missouri, an African-American, after the seat has sat empty for two years. The Senate voted 54 to 45 on Tuesday to reject the nomination of Justice Ronnie White of the Missouri Supreme Court. Republicans say they have approved hundreds of Clinton nominees, including two on the day that Judge White was rejected.
That nomination was rejected, Republicans said, because Judge White had an extremely pro-criminal record in hearing appeals of death penalty cases. The President criticized the vote as "a disgraceful act of partisan politics."
And while many Republicans said they were not aware of Judge White's race when they voted against him, the White House, in its reaction, emphasized what it called unfair treatment of minority nominees.
Mr. Clinton continued that theme today, turning the focus on Hispanic judges.
"They just disappear somewhere in the dark recesses of the calendar of the Senate," Mr. Clinton said. "Why? Well, they don't want to vote him down because they hope that you will vote with them in the next election, but they don't want to vote for him."
He said the Senate was dragging its feet on the nominations of Richard A. Paez of California, the first Mexican American to serve on the Federal bench in Los Angeles, for a vacancy on the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; Marsha Berzon, an appellate lawyer, also in the Ninth Circuit; Judge Julio Fuentes in the Third Circuit; Enrique Moreno, a lawyer, in the Fifth Circuit, and Judge Ronald Guzman for the Northern District of Illinois.
"Now I think the treatment of Richard Paez and Marsha Berzon is shameless," the President said.
"I am pleased to announce that Judge Guzman finally received his Judiciary Committee hearing last week for a vacancy here," the President said. "But the Senate's treatment of Judge White and its failure to vote on the outstanding Hispanic nominees that are pending creates a real doubt" about the abilities of the nominees and about the Senate's willingness to perform its "constitutional duties to advise and consent."
Hispanic Americans have become the fastest-growing group of voters, according to a study released here by the Leadership Institute. From 1976 to 1996, Latinos increased their voter registration by 164 percent, compared with 31 percent for the nation. In votes cast, Latinos have increased to five million in the 1996 Presidential election, up from two million in the 1976 election. The number of Hispanic elected officials has not risen so fast.
"I have always wanted an administration that looks like America," the President said. "You've heard me say that a dozen times, I bet. More and more, America will look like you." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (55%); SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (55%); SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JUDGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (88%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CAPITAL CRIMES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); RICHARD A PAEZ (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



249 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 3368 words

HEADLINE: As Benefits Expire, the Experts Worry

SERIES: LIFE AFTER WELFARE -- Out of Time.

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
Wisconsin, of all places, suddenly has the jitters about cutting families off welfare.
Since 1996, the state's famously tough work rules have swept more than 57,000 families from the rolls and turned a war on welfare into a social experiment commanding international attention. Almost 90 percent of the families that were getting welfare checks three years ago no longer receive them, and envious bureaucrats from around the globe visit the state to hear officials boast of the disappearing dole. 
 But Wisconsin is now grappling with the ultimate symbol of the new welfare age: time limits. Virtually everyone on welfare in the state is required to join a work program, and there are two-year limits on those jobs. This month, for the first time, a handful of Wisconsin families have hit the deadline. As a result, they could lose their checks not for refusing to work for their aid, but simply for staying in the program too long.
The question of what to do with these families has everyone in the welfare system on edge, with the revealing exception of the poor themselves. In theory, time limits are supposed to push the needy down the path to self-reliance. In practice, most poor people are too tangled in the chaos of daily life to give them much thought. Instead, the limits have had an impact far more complex and indirect than the political slogans behind them.
What they have set into motion are waves of worry along bureaucratic fronts. Competing approaches to the deadlines' enforcement are in play as requests for extensions arrive. The state officials who oversee the program are quarreling with the private agencies that help run it. And all are looking to avoid blame when families stay mired in problems that are sometimes decades in the making.
Amid the proliferating subplots, the deadlines have had at least one clearly positive effect: afraid of being called to task or even fined for their clients' slow progress, welfare agencies are revisiting old cases with new intensity. But it remains unclear how much even the best social work can accomplish, especially as troubled lives compete with expiring clocks. And the heightened concern about these few families implicitly raises questions about the tens of thousands dropped from welfare before them without nearly as much thought.
Though the program, Wisconsin Works, or W-2, prides itself on being tough, so far the forces of caution have prevailed. Forty-eight recipients have sought extensions to the two-year limit and all have received them, putting off the day of reckoning by three to six months.
Among them was Robin Edwards, a 38-year-old mother of six who works as a janitor at a Milwaukee parochial school in exchange for a monthly welfare check of $673. A painfully shy woman who stares at the ground when she talks, she reads at the third-grade level and is unclear about such basics as what year her deadline expires. "I'm really not too sure," she said.
In fact, her time expired this month. As it did, it added to the concern up the bureaucratic ladder.
At Y-W Works, a private agency in Milwaukee that handles her case, social workers redoubled a two-year effort to help Ms. Edwards find a regular wage-paying job. Sabrina Lee returned to Ms. Edwards's problems with child care. Pepita Johnson gave weekly lessons on talking to employers. Mark Miller lined up interviews at a hospital and a grocery.
The challenges before them were considerable. In the past 10 years, Ms. Edwards had held just one private job, for a few weeks. Among the skills she is trying to acquire are the rudiments of workplace grooming. "They tell me, 'Don't go in there with body odor on you,' " she said.
As the social workers attended to Ms. Edwards, the head of Y-W Works, Julia Taylor, asked the state for more time.
J. Jean Rogers, the state official who oversees W-2, personally sifted through two years of case notes to review the agency's work. Ms. Rogers, a strict critic of welfare, gave Ms. Edwards three more months, but only after urging Y-W Works to follow a seven-point plan.
"Contact employers with whom she has interviewed to determine for certain why she is not being hired," she wrote. "Engage her in family planning." Ms. Rogers's decisions, in turn, are reviewed by aides to her boss, Linda Stewart, the Secretary of the Department of Workforce Development, who is considered more of a moderate.
The entire process is buffeted by competing political concerns. Saying many families have not received enough help, critics of W-2 have threatened to sue on behalf of the first recipients who lose their aid. "The state should extend the deadline for everyone, given the disarray the program was in," said Pat DeLessio, a welfare rights lawyer.
But others are warning against retreat. "We have to make sure that time limits have teeth," said State Representative John Gard, a Republican who sponsored the legislation creating W-2. If extensions become the rule, he said, "we'll need to scrutinize this closely."
As for Ms. Edwards, though she is getting a remarkable amount of attention, her circumstances are not particularly remarkable. Officials often describe the last cases as the hardest, but that is not necessarily so. Work programs like W-2 sometimes affect the most troubled families first: addicted, depressed or disturbed clients often just disappear. For every client now getting a second look, there may well be two or three others with similar problems who vanished into the post-welfare world.
Ms. Edwards herself had a spotty history in the program, sometimes missing weeks of work. But Y-W Works continued to pursue her. And its efforts just produced a result that took her by surprise: She got a job. On Oct. 1 she began working three days a week as a janitor at a Toys 'R' Us.
No one pretends her problems are solved. With only a part-time job, Ms. Edwards is still on welfare -- she now sweeps the school two days a week -- and her clock is still ticking. Supporters of time limits would call her breakthrough a testament to the power of deadlines. Critics would describe her as a vulnerable woman whose safety net is shrinking.
Her supervisor at the school, Venus McMurry, sounds a pessimistic note. "I don't care what anybody says, the girl's not ready to work," Ms. McMurry said.
Ms. Edwards offers no predictions about where this experiment is heading. "Hopefully, I'll have some luck," she said.
 
The Country
Clinton's Proposal Seized by Republicans
Though they swept the country appearing inevitable, time limits on welfare were anything but. Until Bill Clinton ran for President in 1992, few welfare experts had pondered them and no states had tried them.
Although time limits are now hailed by conservatives, they were first proposed by a liberal, Prof. David T. Ellwood, an economist at Harvard. He wanted to give the poor two or three years of training and then require those still on the rolls to work for their checks. But they would remain eligible for aid, with the Government providing the jobs, if necessary, along with other services.
President Clinton used that plan as a template for his 1992 pledge to "end welfare as we know it." Like Professor Ellwood, Mr. Clinton merely proposed sending the poor to a work site after a few years. He never suggested dropping them from the rolls.
But conservatives seized on his bold rhetoric and called for doing just that. "Ending welfare," they argued, meant enforcing finite periods of eligibility, period. Otherwise, they said, the poor would lack the motivation to leave welfare.
Soon, this new definition prevailed: not time limits followed by work assignments, but time limits followed by nothing. Under attack for failing to keep his "end welfare" pledge, President Clinton accepted a Republican plan in 1996, signing a law that placed a five-year lifetime limit on eligibility for Federal benefits.
The law permits states to set shorter limits, and Wisconsin is one of 20 to do so. It also allows states to exempt 20 percent of their welfare families from the deadline. Wisconsin has no outright exemptions, though there is no limit on the number of extensions a recipient can seek.
At first, time limits appeared to be one of the most consequential features of the new welfare law. The Urban Institute, a Washington research group, predicted that of the 5 million families then on welfare, 1.4 million would suddenly be dropped in 2001 when their five-year limit expired. But a good economy and tough work rules have already cut the country's welfare rolls nearly in half, and as a result, the impact that time limits will come to have is now less clear. Many of the 2.7 million families still receiving aid are expected to leave the rolls before their deadlines expire. And after such precipitous reductions, states may approach the deadlines more permissively than once expected.
So far, the state evidence is mixed. Some of the largest have rejected the strict limits envisioned by Federal law. California and New York, which account for a third of the nation's recipients, have said that after five years they will reduce, but not eliminate, a family's cash aid. If necessary, they will finance the continued payments themselves.
Massachusetts, by contrast, is rigorously enforcing a two-year limit. Of the first 5,000 families to reach the limit, about 70 percent lost their cash assistance. (Time limits do not affect food stamps or Medicaid.) Similarly, Louisiana dropped 4,200 families this year, about 10 percent of its caseload, after they reached a two-year limit. Time limits in Connecticut have cut the most families, about 19,000, but the vast majority were working families who would have been ineligible for welfare in most states.
For evidence about how the limits work, most analysts turn to Pensacola, Fla., which began experimenting with them in 1994. As in Wisconsin, the poor seemed to pay the deadlines little mind. Families given limits of two or three years left the rolls no quicker than a control group of other families.
But researchers found that the Pensacola program, like Wisconsin's, did motivate caseworkers. "They felt like they really had to pay attention to people as they approached the time limit," said Dan Bloom of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a New York City group that evaluated the program. Likening time limits to shock therapy, Mr. Bloom said creative managers might be able to find other ways to motivate caseworkers. But, he added, "it's harder."
 
The State
Conflicting Visions About Time Limits
Wisconsin would seem the last place to fret about families losing welfare. When Gov. Tommy G. Thompson, a Republican, took office in 1987 after an anti-welfare campaign, there were nearly 100,000 families on the rolls. Now there are 7,700.
But as a few dozen families now seek extensions, tensions are running high. Consider the jousting around Simona Alva, a Mexican immigrant who went on welfare seven years ago after her husband fell ill with epileptic seizures.
An outgoing woman with 11 children and 10 cockatiels, Ms. Alva insists that her ability to work is limited. She speaks no English. She gets lost on city buses. Though seven of her children are grown, she worries that a mentally ill son, who is 24, will burn down the house without her supervision. And like many Hispanic women, who are leaving welfare more slowly than blacks or whites, she feels her place is in her home, watching over her troubled family. "The woman is supposed to take care of the man," she said.
Since joining W-2, Ms. Alva has held the least demanding of two major types of jobs in the program, called a "transitions" job. She spends four hours a day, under close supervision, packing books and calendars. But with eligibility at each job level limited to two years, she is now expected to move up to a more demanding "community service" job, with longer hours, or leave welfare. The combined eligibility for all work levels is five years. Because clients are generally required to move up the ladder, those who start in community service, as most do, are typically expected to leave the program for regular jobs after two years. They are the ones most affected by the current deadline.
In Ms. Alva's case, Y-W Works, the private agency, requested an extension, arguing that her ability to work is "complicated by her husband's and her son's disabilities." State officials were skeptical. "This seems to be a person who is ready to move up," they wrote.
The agency resisted. ("Her illiteracy renders her vulnerable in the workplace.") The state pushed back. ("She can communicate functionally.") In the end, the state gave Ms. Alva six more months to study English and to find care for her husband and son.
These first decisions have been shaped by at least three layers of bureaucratic politics. One involves tensions between the private welfare agencies and advocacy groups for the poor. Eager to avoid a lawsuit, some agencies are seeking extensions for any client who wants one, shifting the burden to the state. "It's a game of chicken to see who's going to be the first to make a denial," said an official at one agency.
To circumvent the limits, some agencies are also quietly shifting clients to an easier level of work -- buying them two more years of eligibility. As the deadlines approached, the number of Milwaukee clients placed in the least-taxing "transitions" jobs grew 11 percent as the overall rolls declined.
A second level of tension pits the agencies against the state. Under state contract, agencies can be fined $5,000 for any "failure to serve" a client. So far, no fines have been issued, but Ms. Rogers, the presiding state official, has sometimes criticized the Milwaukee agencies. With Ms. Rogers examining every request for an extension herself, a flurry of social work is sometimes intended as a defense.
A third level of tension exists among state officials, as suggested by the contrasting tenor of their remarks in recent interviews. Ms. Rogers is a firm believer in time limits who has longtime ties to the Governor. "If time limits are serious, you have to treat them seriously," she said. "You don't just look for some external reason" for extensions. Her boss, Ms. Stewart, sounded less stern. "I don't think our legislators expect us to be punitive toward people," she said.
 
The Agency
Limits Produce More Social Work
Amid the tensions, families that might have been left to languish are getting a second look. At Y-W Works, a weekly brainstorming session shows the personalized attention that the system can muster at its best. Client by client, a roomful of social workers revisited the struggles of people approaching the deadline.
Here is one: "She's a schizophrenic who refuses to take her medication."
And another: "She finds it hard to stop using marijuana."
And another: "She just plain flat out doesn't have the emotional energy to do anything about where she is in life."
While such personal attention was missing from the old welfare system, its achievements remain unclear.
Teams of workers were sent to the homes of the schizophrenic woman and the woman on marijuana. But that was just a start. The depressed woman had the group stumped. Her Medicaid plan will pay for only six visits with a therapist. "We've got to find something better than that," her caseworker said.
If the meeting shows the system at its most conscientious, it also shows that clients can -- indeed, often do -- still fall through the cracks. After all, these are families who have made little progress in nearly two years.
Sometimes caseworkers miss problems. Often clients hide problems. Turnover among caseworkers is high. And families that move must often start at a new agency, as cases are apportioned geographically. The schizophrenic woman, for instance, had had been seen by three other agencies.
While Ms. DeLessio, the welfare rights lawyer, called Y-W Works one of the more attentive agencies, she said the system as a whole had failed to live up to the promises behind time limits. "The whole idea is we were going to do these individualized assessments and get people the services they need," she said. "That did not happen."
Ms. Taylor, the agency head, says the issue is less the casework than the difficulty of the cases. Of the first 10 Y-W Works clients to reach their limit, 5 were physically disabled or caring for disabled relatives. Five spoke little or no English. On average, they had a fifth-grade reading level and had been on welfare for the last seven years.
Time limits "do help create a sense of urgency, and sometimes that's helpful," Ms. Taylor said. "But we're dealing with really difficult problems. It's not something that's going to necessarily get solved in two years."
In mulling extensions, sometimes the hardest cases are easiest, because the need for more time seems most obvious. Such is the case with Elise Moore, another schizophrenic woman. She often refuses medication and will attend her work assignment only if her housemate comes with her. Even then, she often flees. "If I hear voices, I'm gone," she says. "I don't want to be around people when I start to scream."
Her case generated no dissent: state officials quickly agreed to an additional six months. Y-W Works plans to use the time to help Ms. Moore reapply for Federal disability benefits. A more difficult challenge, in Wisconsin and beyond, involves people with less obvious but perhaps no less disabling, problems. On the surface, Loretta Triplett, 48, seems, if anything, overdue to leave welfare for work. She has a high school diploma. . Three of her four children are grown.
And she insists she could find work if she had to. "It needs to be a position I'm going to enjoy," she said.
In a program that promotes entry-level work, statements like that, if taken alone, could disqualify her from an extension.
But inside, Ms. Triplett is stalked by more than finicky standards. She has battled depression for 35 years and tried medication without success. Tensions at home add to her worries. She says her son drinks heavily, and with her daughter susceptible to depression, Ms. Triplett must often care for three young grandchildren. She is self-conscious about her missing front teeth, and she conducts job interviews -- indeed, most conversations -- through clenched lips. "I don't like to smile," she said.
Tight-lipped about her problems as well, Ms. Triplett began opening up to a counselor at Y-W Works only recently, shortly before her benefits were scheduled to expire.
If they do, she will join legions of Wisconsin women in the post-welfare world, many with similar problems. About two-thirds find at least sporadic work, according to most surveys. Others turn to family or boyfriends. Relatively few have wound up on the streets. But relatively few have escaped poverty. Most simply find new ways to get by. Ms. Triplett said that if she lost welfare she would move in with her mother.
In June, Ms. Triplett began a new work assignment, at the electric company. Arguing she could gain new clerical skills, Y-W Works asked for another six months. The state gave her three. "We don't want to cut her off," said Anne Paczesny, her counselor. "We see her as making progress. It's just not as fast as W-2 wants."
 
Life After Welfare
With the nation's welfare rolls down by 47 percent, President Clinton, as well as his Republican critics, count the 1996 welfare law as the cornerstone of their respective legacies. The law replaced a 60-year-old cash safety net with time limits and work requirements.
No place has come closer than Wisconsin to the goal of "ending welfare." A decade ago, 100,000 families relied on public aid. Now 7,700 do. The changes taking place in the state, particularly in Milwaukee, its largest city, continue to reverberate in broad and unpredictable ways. Throughout the year, The New York Times is returning to Milwaukee to plot the pattern of change.
The articles and related coverage of welfare issues are available on The New York Times on the Web at www.nytimes.com/politics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robin Edwards, a janitor and mother of six, hit Wisconsin's welfare deadline but got an extension. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 1); FACING DEADLINES -- Robin Edwards, above, who works as a janitor at a parochial school in exchange for her welfare check, reached her benefits deadline, as did Loretta Triplett, left, who has battled depression for 35 years and works part time as a clerk at an electric company. Both received extensions of their benefits. THE FINAL CASES -- With some Wisconsin families at the deadline for the cutoff of aid, welfare workers in Milwaukee recently discussed how to help them. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WISCONSIN WORKS (69%); Y-W WORKS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (96%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); 

PERSON: ROBIN EDWARDS (85%); J JEAN ROGERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



250 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Two Texans, Three Theories
There are at least three theories about the relationship between two powerful Texas Republicans, Gov. George W. Bush and the House majority whip, Tom DeLay. PAGE 28 

Unlikely Champions of Art
The corporate leaders who serve on the Brooklyn Museum of Art's staid board have been transformed by the Giuliani administration into angry defenders of art. PAGE 43
 
The New Euro Arts
The European arts world has fostered a new generation of creative nomads, bonding through cultural sensibilities that have little to do with nationality. Now much of their work will be seen in New York, as part of the New Europe '99 festival. ARTS & LEISURE
 
Second Opinion
Why Washington rediscovered the health care crisis. WEEK IN REVIEW
 
California's Tall Timber
In Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks, Y2K refers to the age of the giant redwoods. Amid the 1,000-year-old whippersnappers in Muir Woods, there are quiet corners for contemplation. TRAVEL
 
Stranger Than Nonfiction
Steven R. Weisman reviews "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan," an authorized biography by Edmund Morris, who found he had to write fiction in order to get at the facts.BOOK REVIEW
 
The Search Engine
How the founder of Silicon Graphics, Netscape and now Healtheon built his fortune on nothing more than his next wildly simple notion, and came to embody a new kind of economic man. MAGAZINE
 
View From the Top
In a wide-ranging round-table discussion, chief executives of four leading corporations candidly dissect the challenge of the Internet and the demands -- and rewards -- of leadership. MONEY & BUSINESS
 
SPECIAL TODAY
Mutual Funds Report
In a quarter when most stocks lost ground, fund investors found good news in two beaten-down market sectors, gold and Asian stocks, while bond funds suffered. MONEY & BUSINESS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MONEY&BUSINESS (78%); ARTS&LEISURE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); BOND FUNDS (63%); BONDS (63%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



251 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: A Scramble for Office Space in Jersey City, Manhattan's 'West Bank'

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The hottest address for investment bankers today is the former home of a toothpaste and detergent factory.
It is not on Fifth Avenue, the Avenue of the Americas or Wall Street, but across the Hudson River in Jersey City. 
 Merrill Lynch & Company is about to close on the purchase of a waterfront parcel for a million-square-foot office tower where 1,300 workers once churned out Colgate toothpaste, according to real estate executives and Jersey City officials. And Goldman Sachs & Company, the investment bank, is negotiating with the Colgate-Palmolive Company to buy as many as four other parcels for what could be 3.9 million square feet of office space.
Lord, Abbett & Company will move its entire operations there from the General Motors building. And, real estate brokers said, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette is looking for space for its Internet business at the 20-acre site, where Colgate's landmark 55-foot octagonal clock still illuminates the Jersey City waterfront at night.
"It's the hottest address in town," said Leonard Boxer, a real estate lawyer with Stroock & Stroock & Lavan who has many Wall Street clients and a residential project at the Colgate site. "Jersey City is benefiting from its proximity to where the action is: New York."
Last week, the Chase Manhattan Corporation announced that it would move 3,500 back-office jobs to Florida and Texas, while continuing to expand in Manhattan. But most financial companies are looking closer to home.
This is not a repeat of the late 1970's or early 90's, when some Manhattan companies fled a recession- and crime-racked city. Wall Street is increasingly looking to what New Jersey developers like to call the West Bank of Manhattan for back office space, and occasionally, a new headquarters, because financial companies are booming and large blocks of office space are virtually nonexistent in New York.
Jersey City is less expensive and only minutes away by PATH train or ferry. State and local governments there are willing to provide enormous tax breaks and other incentives.
"All these financial services firms are bursting at the seams," said Richard B. Clark, president of Brookfield Financial Properties, a major Manhattan landlord. "They're moving nonessential functions across the river so they can expand the front office in Manhattan."
Fearful of losing large segments of the financial industry, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has provided $2 billion in tax breaks to 50 large corporations threatening to leave Manhattan. But his administration has failed, urban planners say, to create back office space in Brooklyn or Queens that might stem some of the defections to Jersey City, where office rents are $10 to $30 a square foot cheaper than in Manhattan.
In the last real estate boom, in the 1980's, Mayor Edward I. Koch oversaw the development of office buildings in Long Island City, Queens, as well as the Metrotech complex in downtown Brooklyn, which serves as back office space for Chase Manhattan Bank and other companies. But those projects have been full for years.
H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nongovernmental planning group, said the city should have provided land and incentives to developers to build additional office space on waterfront sites outside Manhattan, rather than giving corporate giants like Time Warner, Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley billions in tax breaks.
"There is no economic development policy," Mr. Shostal said. "They've thrown all the incentives at the big guys and they don't have anything left for the development of back office space or the small- and medium-sized firms that generate a lot of job growth."
Randy L. Levine, Deputy Mayor for economic development, disagreed sharply with Mr. Shostal.
"Due to our success in retaining and attracting companies, there is a shortage of space in Manhattan," Mr. Levine said. "We are trying to find, and in some cases have succeeded, in finding back office space in Staten Island and College Point, Queens."
But developers say no Wall Street company would go to College Point or Staten Island, the psychological equivalent of the other side of the moon. It is the Colgate site that is suddenly in the corporate searchlight.
Unlike the developers of other Jersey City office parks, Colgate wants to sell the land rather than lease it. The company's Jersey City factory closed in 1986 after more than a century of operation. Colgate sought to turn the site into an office park, and in 1992, a developer completed what is now called 101 Hudson Street, offices for both Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. But not much else happened for years.
Now, Hartz Mountain Industries is completing one office building at 90 Hudson Street, which will be a home for Lord, Abbett and the National Discount Brokers Group, and is starting a second on another Colgate site.
SJP Properties, one of the largest commercial developers in New Jersey, recently bought the only remaining factory building at Colgate and plans to transform it into modern office space, which has attracted Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, as well as other potential tenants.
Real estate executives on both sides of the river said Merrill Lynch would soon complete the acquisition of another parcel for a large office tower at Colgate. Merrill will almost certainly enjoy a number of tax breaks, just as it has in Manhattan. Peter Riguardi, the real estate broker representing Merrill Lynch, declined to discuss the deal.
"Jersey City affords large companies the ability to get large blocks of office space at competitive prices," Mr. Riguardi said. "The Colgate sites, in particular, provide them the ability to control the development."
On Tuesday, the developer Lester Fisher won approval from the Jersey City planning board for a twin-towered complex with 650 apartments that would rise nearly 30 stories over a garage on the Colgate property.
But it is the prospect of Goldman Sachs's buying all the remaining land at Colgate that has Jersey City buzzing. The investment bank has doubled in size (to 3.5 million square feet) and the number of employees (10,180) in lower Manhattan over the last four years. Goldman anticipates that it will need an additional two million square feet by 2004, which brought the bank to the Colgate site, where it would own the land.
New York City officials say that Goldman has talked to them about a vacant lot at the north end of the World Financial Center, or the office tower over a new trading complex for the New York Stock Exchange, if and when it is built. But many brokers are betting on Colgate, where, they said, Goldman is negotiating a contract to buy two parcels and an option on two others.
"Goldman Sachs is interested in tying up all the remaining office sites on the river," said Joseph Barry, chairman of the Applied Companies, a residential developer on the Jersey coastline.
Certainly the number of companies landing on the Jersey City beachfront is mounting.
"I think the focus on the waterfront will become even more intense over the next 18 months" as the economy slows and corporations become more interested in reducing costs, said Josh N. Kurilofs, executive director of Cushman and Wakefield, a real estate broker.
Last month, the Insurance Services Office, an information clearinghouse, announced that it would move its headquarters from Manhattan to an office building under construction at Samuel J. LeFrak's vast Newport complex on the water in Jersey City. Mr. LeFrak is just finishing a separate building in Newport that will have offices for PaineWebber, U.S. Trust and Cigna.
Robert Murray, a spokesman for Colgate, declined to discuss any pending deals. But, he added, "If everything were to happen, it would be the culmination of a dream we set out for that site 13 years ago."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Colgate-Palmolive site, with its landmark 55-foot octagonal clock. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 43); Where toothpaste was once made, financial companies are taking root on the Jersey City waterfront. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 47)
 
Map of the Jersey City Waterfront highlighting the Colgate site: The Colgate site is minutes away from Manhattan by train or ferry. (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CL (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; LORD ABBETT & CO; DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE INC MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (84%); STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (83%); LORD ABBETT & CO (70%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; LORD ABBETT & CO; DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); HUDSON RIVER; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; OFFICE BUILDINGS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



252 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Political Puzzle of 2 Texans: Candidate and House Leader

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER and FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9

 BODY:
There are a couple of leading theories about the relationship between the Texas Republicans who may soon be running the country:
A.) That the party's Presidential front-runner, Gov. George W. Bush, and the House majority whip, Tom DeLay, are closer than we know, ideological kindred spirits who like to play good cop/bad cop but then share the double-secret conservative handshake when nobody is looking. 
 B.) That these two guys from opposite sides of the tracks have little to nothing in common and if Governor Bush were elected President, would enjoy roughly as easy a relationship as the Governor's father did with Newt Gingrich, the firebrand who later became Speaker.
Those close to both men suggest yet another possibility: While they are not unfriendly and are at least somewhat like-minded, both are tough and competitive enough to be willing to win at each other's expense, if need be. And smart enough to recognize that they need each other, at least for now.
In the last two weeks, Mr. Bush certainly seemed to go out of his way to poke Mr. DeLay and all House Republicans in the eye a couple of times. First, he accused them of trying to "balance their budget on the backs of the poor." Then, in a speech on education, he portrayed his party as fixated on affluence -- "focused on the national economy, to the exclusion of all else." But aides to Bush insist that his later remarks, which had been written before the first flap occurred, were not intended to cut Congressional Republicans a second time, and seemed harsher in light of the earlier criticism.
After initially lashing out that the Governor "does not know how Congress works," Mr. DeLay is said to be over his pique (or facsimile of pique, in the alternative view). Though Mr. DeLay, who is commonly viewed as the real power in the House, volunteers that he and the Governor have "never had dinner; we aren't social friends," his comments do advance the theory that the two are ideologically much closer than their stylistic differences might suggest. And, of course, no one in the Bush campaign has ever hinted that their candidate is anything other than a credentialed conservative.
"I'm not sure there's a whole lot of difference between us," Mr. DeLay said in a recent interview, before Governor Bush's unflattering remarks. "I'm not sure there's a dime's worth of difference between us, philosophically. I don't know of any moderate Texas Republicans, if you really want to know. It's conservative and more conservative."
In his quest to put a friendlier face on the Republican Party, Mr. Bush has more reason to put some distance between himself, the majority leader, Dick Armey, another fellow Texan, and Mr. DeLay, also known as "the Hammer," who Democrats are trying to make his de facto running mate. ("Just remember B-A-D," said a spokesman for Vice President Al Gore, Chris Lehane. "Bush-Armey-DeLay: Bad policy, bad politics, bad for America.")
One Republican strategist said that because Governor Bush would be jettisoning the House Republicans' confrontational style, the members of Congress hurrying to board the Bush bandwagon seemed to be catching on only belatedly to the fact that their instant affection for the Governor might not be reciprocal. Most House Republicans rushing to support him "never calculated that it was an act of self-immolation," the strategist said, adding that most were still "as oblivious to what this means for them over the next two to four years as a 6-year-old is to the workings of a jet engine."
But not so Mr. DeLay, who seems both reconciled to the fact that some distancing is probably inevitable and willing to return the favor and speak out against the Governor if necessary. "Bush has to do what he has to do to win his Presidency," he said at week's end. After making the critical remarks about fellow Republicans in last week's education speech, one adviser to the Governor said Mr. Bush had acknowledged that House leaders know the score, saying, "Those guys understand."
And the Governor, in turn, understands that he needs Congressional support -- 152 House members have endorsed him so far, along with 25 Senators -- and so must keep Mr. DeLay at least relatively happy. "For House Republicans, DeLay is the most important figure, and within the campaign there's a recognition that we need to be working with him," the Bush adviser said.
Many in Congress have already pitched in with fund-raisers back home, and will help turn out the Republican vote in their districts, where many of them are quite popular. If Governor Bush is elected, a working relationship with House Republicans would certainly make life easier, even if they fail to hold on to their majority. But it is also generally understood that if he has to sacrifice the House to get elected, he will.
Meanwhile, relations do not seem to have been permanently chilled by the recent criticism. Aides to the two men socialize, and a couple of people in Mr. DeLay's office have been under serious consideration for senior positions in the Bush campaign, which already includes plenty of Capitol Hill veterans. The Governor's official liaison on the Hill, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, who says he talks to the Governor's staff nearly every day, is also Mr. DeLay's chief deputy whip.
Even before Governor Bush formally announced his candidacy, he and some House Republicans had begun meeting informally to discuss an agenda for 2000; Mr. Bush needed their early support, and House Republicans needed a strong Presidential candidate, one with the potential to help them preserve their slim majority despite some pretty iffy poll ratings.
"Frankly," Mr. Blunt said recently, "a lot of our members endorsed him before they met him," but have only become more enthusiastic as they have gotten to know him, he added. When asked to name Governor Bush's closest friends on Capitol Hill, he thought for a while and then said, "I think he and Tom DeLay are friends" -- again, not golfing buddies, but political allies with an understanding.
In background, bearing and basic style, the two men are obviously worlds apart: Mr. Bush is an Ivy League-educated former owner of a professional baseball team who was born into a political dynasty -- a sunny, big-picture guy's guy who likes to get along and seemed to enjoy governing Texas alongside his good friend, the late Democratic Lieut. Gov. Bob Bullock.
Mr. DeLay, on the other hand, is the son of an alcoholic wildcatter, a man Mr. DeLay describes as "like something straight out of 'Giant.' " The House whip is a former pest exterminator who made his own way, got into politics to cut red tape and became a true believing, i-dotting and t-crossing, fight-to-the-finish conservative, the ultimate partisan, and proud of it.
"Bush does the forest, DeLay does the trees," said Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist, with a laugh. "Bush is passive-aggressive, DeLay is aggressive-aggressive."
Governor Bush, by all accounts, seems to regard Mr. DeLay with a respect exactly commensurate with the power he wields in the Congress.
They met in 1980, "When I was first starting," Mr. DeLay remembers, "and his Daddy was running with Ronald Reagan." Their first encounter was at a fund-raiser in Houston, near Mr. Delay's Sugar Land home. "He was, what's the word I want? Passionate is too feminine, but he was gung ho for his Daddy. He was kind of oil field trash -- that's an endearing term, by the way. And when I first met him he was trying to find himself."
Since then, "He's certainly smoothed over the edges. Probably the best thing that ever happened to him was getting involved with the Texas Rangers, because he focused and learned from that."
In 1990, when President Bush abandoned his no-new-taxes pledge, Mr. DeLay was front and center among House Republicans who opposed him. And the younger Bush did not enlist Mr. DeLay into his gubernatorial campaign against the incumbent, Ann Richards, a Democrat. "I don't recall him relying on Congressional Republicans at all," said Representative Henry Bonilla, a Texas Republican who knows both men well.
But Mr. DeLay does seem to get along better with the Governor than he ever did with President Bush, referring to the younger Bush as a fellow Christian and "much more of a people person" than his father. Typically, he likes to position himself as the benefactor, rather than the supplicant, in the relationship. "When he needs something, he calls, and we try to take care of him," Mr. DeLay said.
But even if in truth the balance of power is probably in Mr. Bush's favor, Mr. DeLay does have the power to hurt the Governor, and those who know Mr. Bush say that means he will try to keep him as close as possible.
As one Bush supporter who knows them both put it, "They're different guys, but at the end of the day, they're both just a couple of pols. And I can see them now, on the Truman balcony with their boots up, trading war stories."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Although the election is more than a year away, there is political speculation about how the House majority whip, Tom DeLay, left, and Gov. George W. Bush might get along if Mr. Bush wins the White House. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUDGETS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



253 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Ford and Auto Workers Avert Strike With Tentative Agreement

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 9

 BODY:
After round-the-clock negotiations lasting nearly 30 hours, the United Automobile Workers union reached a tentative agreement today with the Ford Motor Company on a new contract for its 101,000 unionized workers.
"The U.A.W. has reached a tentative agreement with Ford on a new contract covering hourly workers at Ford facilities in the United States," the union and the company announced in a joint statement at 1:30 this afternoon. Both the union and the company refused to discuss any details of the contract until they had a chance to discuss the contract with the workers. 
 Because the Ford contract is expected to have terms nearly identical to those in contracts the union has already negotiated with other auto companies, it is expected to cover four years and call for hefty raises.
Ford's unionized workers would get annual raises of 3 percent on top of increases that nearly compensate for inflation. In addition, they would get a $1,350 signing bonus and sweetened pension benefits.
Unionized workers were awaiting details of the contract, but were pleased that a threatened strike at midnight Friday did not materialize, despite negotiations that continued past the midnight strike deadline. Workers are expected to ratify the contract later this month.
The agreement today ends the union's drive this autumn to negotiate new labor contracts covering the nation's 400,000 unionized auto workers, whose contracts were due to expire Sept. 14 but were extended during the negotiations.
On Sept. 16, the union reached a deal with the DaimlerChrysler Corporation covering its 75,000 factory workers in the United States. On Sept. 28, the union reached a deal with the General Motors Corporation covering its 143,200 blue-collar workers and 48,000 workers at Delphi Automotive Systems, the auto parts unit that G.M. spun off to shareholders in May.
This week, the union told Ford it would end the current contract at 11:59 P.M. on Friday and would call a strike if no agreement had been reached by then.
With auto companies earning record profits, the union was able to force them to share the wealth with blue-collar workers, who now earn $50,000 to $100,000.
"This is the fattest contract in decades," said John A. Casesa, an auto analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The auto industry has been in continuous restructuring since the early 70's, so this was a rare opportunity to get a piece of meat."
The union had threatened to strike to show dissatisfaction with Ford's plan to spin off its giant Visteon Automotive Systems unit to shareholders.
Nearly a quarter of Ford's unionized workers toil in Visteon factories, and they feared that their jobs and pensions would be less secure if Visteon were an independent company.
As negotiations continued past the midnight Friday deadline, thousands of workers at four Ford factories walked off the job, causing Ford to lose about 13 and a half hours of production. However, the company said this morning that workers had reported to work today.
Though neither the union nor the company released details today, Ford was expected to have promised wage and job protection for its 23,500 Visteon workers in the event of a spinoff.
It has been 23 years since there has been a strike at Ford, which has basked in sunny labor relations as its rival, General Motors, suffered 17 strikes in the last six years, including one last year that cost it $2 billion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); VC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (53%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); VISTEON CORP (53%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (53%); VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS (50%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LABOR UNIONS (94%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (85%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



254 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14LI;Page 1;Column 1;Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3236 words

HEADLINE: In Troubled Roosevelt, A Takeover Still Awaits A Makeover

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT

 BODY:
LILLIAN COGGINS-WATSON is an elementary school principal who gives everything to the delicate and daunting mission of educating some of Nassau County's neediest children. She has stayed for a generation and often stops to hug pupils whose parents attended the same school. The children wear uniforms with colorful ties made from African fabric. Trained storytellers visit. Sixth graders spend a week visiting Washington, D.C.
She insists that education at the Ulysses Byas School in the Roosevelt school district be an intricate, meticulously planned process. For instance, the very first reading mistakes of kindergartners are systematically corrected before they can become habitual. It seems to be paying off: last year's fourth graders ranked in the top 10th of readers in the state. 
 "What are you?" Ms. Coggins-Watson demands as she leads a visitor from classroom to classroom. The smiling children thunder back, "First in the universe!"
The tragedy of the Roosevelt district, which contains four elementary schools and a combined middle and high school, is that these so-far successful children face a rough road in an exceptionally troubled school system. Four years after the state seized control of the 2,900-student district, the only one Albany has taken over, it remains in turmoil. Each step forward seems threatened by the same old, deeply intractable problems.
The consensus is that state intervention has brought few new ideas and even less new money, the district's greatest need by virtually everyone's estimation.
Michelle Smith is pleased to have two sons, 6 and 10, at Ulysses Byas School, but sees all the positive energy in that school as solely the result of Ms. Coggins-Williams's drive and inspiration.
"Where are the funds to have more things for these children?" she asked. "I mean Ulysses Byas is a great school, but they don't have a playground."
Ms. Smith is scouting private prep schools that might give her older son, a straight-A student, a scholarship. Another parent, Anastasia Mayo, already sends her 17-year-old son to a Catholic school in Manhassett, St. Mary's, for a barely affordable $5,000 a year. She does not know what she will do with two younger children still in the Roosevelt system.
"The Roosevelt district has really failed me," she said. Just two weeks ago, she found out that none of her son's seventh-grade teachers had been told that he had severe reading problems that need special attention.
The state takeover is an educational experiment that remains, at best, unfinished. And in two more years, law requires that the state leave Roosevelt, which all in all might not be a bad thing.
"I wouldn't support this model again," said James A. Kadamus, the state's deputy commissioner of education, who wrote a recent report on Roosevelt that, among other things, advocated hiring a private consultant to sort through the mess and make recommendations.
Michael Mostow, the district superintendent who also headed the state's staff at Roosevelt immediately after the takeover, is downright dismissive of the critics. He points to current initiatives from computer education to teacher training to corporate fund-raising. But he insists that he is more than competent to run things without kibitzers from Albany.
What's even worse, he complains, is Albany's latest decision to put one of nine new charter schools in Roosevelt -- a decision he is fighting ferociously. If the charter school begins next year as planned with 200 pupils from kindergarten through second grade, he says, it will cost his district $1.7 million and grow each year as more classes are added.
"This should never have happened in a suburban school district that's poor," he said. "It's a travesty."
Others see a charter school as the only solution. "All of us have failed so far," said Bob Francis, who leads a Roosevelt advisory committee authorized by state law and is on the charter school's board. "I don't have any problem recognizing that we failed."
Most telling, the principal who bragged about her fourth-grade winners said several minutes later that their best teacher had been hired by a nearby district for more money. So had two exceptional third-grade teachers. In the entire district, 16 percent of teachers leave each year, compared with a Nassau County average of 9 percent. The reason is that the district pays at least $10,000 less for an experienced teacher. Its salary schedule is the lowest in downstate New York outside of New York City.
Administrators twirl through their own revolving door. So, too, do state overseers brought in from outside. (New ones, who will be paid for the first time, have just been appointed. They are the third such group since the state takeover.)
It might not be cause and effect, but critics say it all wears on the students. Junior and senior high school students do considerably worse than their elementary counterparts. Last year's 11th graders were Nassau County's lowest achievers on standardized tests, a result of what one school board member calls "a menu for failure." Although the graduation rate rose last year to 97 percent, a record high for the district, only 4 of the 120 high school graduates received Regents diplomas, compared with 5 in 1996, the academic year of the takeover.
Seretta McKnight, who was president of the Roosevelt school board when the state fired the panel and who remains a fierce critic of both state and local officials, puts it more graphically. "A systematic retardation process has been going on," she said. "Slowly, our children fall apart."
A striking response is the number of local parents scrambling to send their children to private school. At Ms. Shelley's Upward Prep school, which serves grades kindergarten through 4 and has two buildings, one on Nassau Road and the other on Centennial Avenue just a few blocks from the Roosevelt district's Centennial Avenue Elementary School, an official said that 90 percent of 500 students are from the Roosevelt district. That comes to around a quarter of the district's enrollment for the same grades.
Kevin Hagans, a heavy equipment operator for New York City, strains financially to send two children to Ms. Shelley's. He cites smaller class size, an excellent after-school program and what he thinks is better security. "You have a better chance to really prepare your child," he said.
Maybe this is what it means to be a poor, nearly 100 percent African-American and Latino school district in the midst of more affluent suburbia. But this is no war zone. Lawns in Roosevelt are well tended, and every so often appears the sort of wonderful garden that makes people smile on a sunny morning. The scene varies little from Baldwin and other nearby neighborhoods.
Still, the one-square-mile Roosevelt district has the highest poverty index of any district in Nassau County, the highest unemployment rate and the largest population receiving public assistance. Nearly three-quarters of Roosevelt students are eligible for free or reduced-price school lunches, compared with 17 percent in the rest of Nassau county.
A bitter irony for the strivers who escaped the Bronx and Brooklyn to seek the suburban dream is that Roosevelt also has Nassau County's second-highest residential property tax rates.
Much of the tax burden is caused by the district's small size and the virtual absence of businesses to tax. But the United States Justice Department is suing Nassau County, accusing it of assessing minorities exorbitantly high property taxes. Roosevelt residential property is taxed at $55 per $100 of assessed value, compared with less than $40 in neighboring Freeport. The average value of a home in Freeport, a more integrated community, is $225,000, compared with $160,000 in Roosevelt.
"Roosevelt is like a part of inner-city Brooklyn that grew up on Long Island," said Alan Singer, an associate professor of secondary education at Hofstra University.
Dr. Singer works regularly with teachers at Roosevelt's junior-senior high school. He said that Roosevelt exists only because surrounding districts "don't want their kids," and that Roosevelt and a similar district in Suffolk County, Wyandanch, continue to exist only to maintain segregated patterns.
His view that they were never economically or educationally viable was expressed as early as the late 1960's by the state Education Department. By 1989, when the state compiled its first list of schools in danger of imminent failure, Roosevelt and Wyandanch were on it.
But no move was ever made to close the Roosevelt district, or at least its most troubled school, the junior and senior high. This would have required sending the students to nearby districts. Mr. Kadamus, state deputy commissioner, explained that such a step would have had to be approved by the state Legislature and probably by the voters in nearby districts -- Hempstead, Uniondale, Freeport and Bellmore-Merrick.
"Certainly, our neighbors were not going to go for that," Ms. McKnight said. "We're a black district that was defenseless."
But it would be hard for anyone to argue things were not in a deplorable state.
"If a community could be charged with child neglect, possibly with abuse, Roosevelt would be a strong candidate," wrote Daniel Domenech, who at the time was the Boces superintendent for western Suffolk County and was asked by the state in 1995 to lead an investigation of the reports from Roosevelt.
"Although each member of the visiting team is an experienced, veteran administrator," he wrote in his report, "few could recall ever visiting a school with conditions as deplorable as what exists at Roosevelt Junior-Senior High School."
The report mentioned a lack of books in classes, fires in lockers, calcified chemicals in laboratories and poor sanitation in the cafeteria. It said that no district buildings had certificates of occupancy and that all had numerous fire-code violations. Security problems, including students freely tossing firecrackers in the halls, were particularly noted. Students entered and left the building at will despite the presence of security guards at doors.
Dr. Domenech, who is now superintendent of the Fairfax, Va., school district, said his most poignant memory was student after student approaching him to say: "Help us. Can you do something about our school?"
The result was a bill in Albany sponsored by local legislators and supported by the state Regents. The bill permitted but did not require removal of the local school board. So the state began with more moderate steps than kicking out incumbent boards. In part, this was a matter of philosophy. "I believe in local control," Gov. George E. Pataki said when he signed the law in July 1995.
Among the 22 states that have taken over school districts, there is a mix of actions, ranging from very intrusive, such as New Jersey's, to West Virginia's, which kept local boards. Todd Ziebarth, a policy analyst at the Education Commission of the States, a Denver-based study group, said that both approaches had usually helped with finances and in some cases with needed capital construction. But the impact on education itself is more uncertain, he said.
"There hasn't been a compelling pool of evidence suggesting that takeovers consistently improve student achievement," Mr. Ziebarth said.
But the Roosevelt takeover was particularly timid, even tentative, many players say. And some think the result was a squandered opportunity. Mr. Mostow said the state should have been allowed to dissolve the elected school board, fire all teachers and administrators and totally restructure the district. Mr. Domenech agreed, saying, "It would have been wonderful for us to have the powers to clean house."
But he said the powers permitted by the legislation were not always employed. "After the legislation was passed, there wasn't the political will to follow through and do what had to be done," he said.
Then, over the first months of what was discreetly termed "the intervention," tensions escalated. The local board moved to assert its independence by changing superintendents, a move the state considered disruptive. There were also disagreements about the pace of school repair and curriculum reform. The result: a real state takeover. On Jan. 3, 1996, the Regents ordered the board removed.
For five months, progress was rapid. New computers and working toilets became the order of the day. A deficit of more than $1 million was erased by extra state aid. Every child received a textbook in every subject.
But in May 1996, a new board was elected. All were totally inexperienced, and the New York State School Board Association has said it takes members three to five years to get the hang of the job, even under smooth circumstances. Tensions developed with the state over how to manage the large physical reconstruction effort required. As the board scurried to interview dozens of architects, not to mention teachers, some new members seethed over being second-guessed by the state at every turn.
"It seemed they were bolstering their own egos more than working with the board in the district," said Mark Davis, a board member since 1996.
Another factor that residents believe has definitely tested the grace of political discourse is that members of the school board are the unincorporated hamlet's only elected officials.
Mr. Mostow was offered a job in as a superintendent in Bethpage. He wanted to stay at Roosevelt, but the district would not match the $135,000 offer. So he left, only to return in the fall of 1998. Progress slowed, and Dr. Domenech left the district in November 1997. Principals and acting principals came and went, four of them since the takeover. Anthony Pecorale, who succeeded Dr. Domenech and resigned just last month, said that attaining consensus within the local board was difficult, much less reaching common ground with the state. "The board is at best a 3-2 board, and that community can't afford that," he said.
Underlying the debate has been the prickly issue of money. The community voted down two property tax increases this year, the first a mild one of 0.5 percent, based on getting $3 million in extra state aid. The second, with no expectation of state help, would have meant a 21.8 percent increase.
The defeat of that budget forced a mandatory "austerity budget," but even that meant a tax increase of 9.8 percent and the cancellation of numerous budget items, including $670,000 in teacher salary increases, $394,000 for teacher aide positions and $283,000 to hire five new reading teachers.
When last-minute state aid came through, the district cut the tax increase to 4.7 percent. The state criticized the tax cut in a report late last month, suggesting it will make it very difficult to increase teachers' salaries, and said the state needed to spend $32 million to repair and upgrade schools and recommended a bond issue. The state estimates taxes must go up 11 to 12 percent annually each of the next three years.
The predicted increases include nothing to improve school quality. Instead, they are necessary to make up for state advances of aid, which have been running $4 million a year. The state is requiring that these advances be stopped, and by June 2002 will have phased them out completely.
"The ultimate issue here is finances," Mr. Kadamus said. But it is not the only issue.
As he enters his second year as boss, Mr. Mostow says he is relishing the challenge. He has greatly expanded teacher training and preparation, gotten grants to give every third grader in one of the four elementary schools school computers both at school and home, and hired two more foreign-language teachers for the high school. The language instructors are critical because the school has lacked sufficient courses to prepare students for foreign-language Regents exams, which is a requirement for a Regents diploma and perhaps the biggest reason that so few in Roosevelt have received one.
Mr. Mostow used state grants to decrease student-teacher ratios and to mix special-education students into regular classrooms. The district last year revived dormant after-school programs and added summer school. The superintendent has also attended to such details as building two tennis courts, in addition to the two it has, so the tennis team can play interscholastic matches at home for the first time. The P.T.A. has been reorganized, the football field resodded and the libraries remodeled. He has thrilled junior and high school students by buying a pizzeria-quality pizza oven for the cafeteria.
"I've never had as hard a job as this job," Mr. Mostow said. "There are so many things to juggle simultaneously."
Indisputably, there are positive signs as one wanders through the schools. Mary Deutch, a fifth-grade teacher who formerly taught in Far Rockaway, Queens, said Roosevelt kids are simply nicer. In her old school, she said "the kids knew every gun, every type of drug." Here, she said, "There's not a tough kid in the whole class."
Lynda Sarnoff, who is director of special and alternative education, said she came to Roosevelt after 25 years in the New York City system, where she supervised 45,000 children at the end. "I wanted to get closer to kids," she said. "You can work child by child."
One of her progams is a new alternative school for disruptive high schoolers. Jamal Griffin, 17, a junior in the alternative school, located in a separate building away from other schools, said he appreciated the extra attention. "Without this, I would have got lost," he said. "I would have been out of school or something."
Edwina Williams, who as P.T.A. president last year revived the moribund organization, said parents were getting more and more involved. Last year's initiatives began with a potluck supper and crescendoed into a variety of activities. Most important is encouraging parents to visit the high school, and a new parents' room was recently established through the P.T.A.
"We're working to be supportive and they're listening," Ms. Williams said. "I'm determined not to give up hope."
At the center of the storm is Shelton Wilder, the new high school principal. He came from Mississippi, where he specialized in improving reading test scores of flagging schools. Though the state report suggested he may need help adjusting to New York, particularly the move from Mississippi's tests of academic competency to the higher standards being imposed in New York, Mr. Wilder sounded quite confident.
"Desire is the ingredient that makes a district jump," Mr. Wilder said.
One of his plans is to replace study halls with classes where students learn something. Another is to take classes to visit a penitentiary as inspiration to stay in school.
Not that anything will be easy. Ronald Musson, the third assistant superintendent for business in less than a year, said he had found the district's financial coordination worse than he had suspected. "It's very challenging," he said. "Challenging and overwhelming."
Perletter Wright, the principal of the Washington Rose elementary school for the 10th year, acknowledged the difficulties. But she said she always feels a sense of purpose when a child pulls at her skirt and says he needs her.
"We don't sit on our hands and cry because we don't have something," she said. "It's not a crying time, it's a doing time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about problems in improving the Roosevelt public schools after the state takeover of the district misstated its current enrollment. It is 3,250; 2,900 was the figure for the 1998-99 year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fourth-grade students at Roosevelt's Ulysses Byas elementary school have classroom computers to use. But troubles persist in the 2,900-student school district. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Standardized test scores at Roosevelt High School, above, lag behind the achievements at the district's four elementary schools. At Ulysses Byas elementary school, below, students like these second-graders wear uniforms. Principal Lillian Coggins-Watson with a Ulysses Byas library class. The students' motto declares they are "first in the universe." (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PRIMARY SCHOOLS (92%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); RANKINGS (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



255 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Next Big Thing

BYLINE: By David S. Reynolds; David S. Reynolds is a Distinguished Professor of English at Baruch College and the City University of New York Graduate School. His books include "Walt Whitman's America" and "Beneath the American Renaissance."

 BODY:

STILL THE NEW WORLD
 American Literature in a Culture
 of Creative Destruction.
 By Philip Fisher.
 Illustrated. 290 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $29.95. 
 IN computers, today's sleek cheetah is tomorrow's plodding turtle, ready for the basement or the recycling bin. Philip Fisher claims in "Still the New World" that American history has been a prolonged exercise in creative destruction. He points out that every new technological advance and pop culture fad obliterates a host of others: "All that now exists is equally half-real, half-unreal because it exists under the threat that it might soon become obsolete or be discarded."
The idea of creative destruction is rooted in the work of the economist Joseph Schumpeter and the social historian Stanley Kutler. While acknowledging his debt to these scholars, Fisher, who teaches English and American literature at Harvard, offers applications of the notion that are fresh and provocative. He suggests that creative destruction is at the very heart of the American social experiment, permeating the economy and mass culture. At the same time, he sees versions of it in American writings from Walt Whitman's "Leaves of Grass" through Mark Twain's "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" to the fiction of Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner. Tracing simultaneously the social and literary ramifications of the idea, he veers between sweeping generalizations about American society and detailed literary analyses that are illuminating but often linked only indirectly to his theme.
Challenging the pessimistic thesis, anticipated in the late 19th century by Frederick Jackson Turner, that American frontiers (literal and figurative) are closed, Fisher, citing the ever-present "newness and nextness" of American life, turns to Emerson's 1839 essay "Circles" for a different view, highlighting innovation and renewal. Paraphrasing Emerson, he writes that most people are satisfied with the "apparent completeness and perfection of the world just as it is now" until "a new idea or invention surrounds and dissolves the earlier fixed places for these limited facts," creating a "new circle" that opens into "a new world." For Emerson, the new idea was steam. For later generations, new ideas would include the telephone, the airplane, the personal computer and the Internet. With bravura, Fisher declares that "the whole of American culture and economic life is a, so far, successful attempt to live up to this Emersonian manifesto" about newness.
Along with newness has come homogenization. Every new American idea or product becomes instantly replicable, producing cultural sameness from point to point. The examples Fisher gives include the Kellogg's cornflakes box on the kitchen table and the same 10 songs on every car radio on a given summer day. From such examples, he leaps to large statements about what he calls "democratic social space" in the United States, which he argues is identical from place to place, open to entry and mobility, transparent and intelligible, and devoid of outside observers who might make possible self-awareness or negative criticism.
This last claim points up a weakness in his reasoning. Although his comments about the homogeneity of American culture are shrewd, his insistence on an absence of meaningful critiques of mainstream values overlooks powerful figures of dissent and radical individualism in American history, including several Fisher presents as progenitors of conformist mass culture. In his treatment, Jefferson, having once mapped out a grid for equal-sized farms, becomes a kind of ancestral spirit behind Levittown-like suburbs, not the father of revolutionary fervor revealed in his more radical writings. Thoreau's retreat to a cabin by Walden Pond, an act of cranky protest against conformity and materialism, is improbably said to have set a "repeatable pattern for a nation of self-sufficient poet-farmers," so that "an entire earth could be carpeted from end to end with reduplications of Thoreau's experiment." The Whitman he emphasizes is the all-equalizing, ultrademocratic poet, not the bohemian rebel who could sneer at the "corruption, bribery, falsehood" he thought saturated American institutions and who could write, "Vive, the attack -- the perennial assault!"
Fisher does recognize an exception to the rule of what he calls America's "common ground of citizenship or democratic personality" -- regionalism. One of his most original points is that regionalism, sometimes viewed as blandly conventional, actually goes against the cultural grain by affirming the uniqueness of the local group. But regionalism, in Fisher's view, has no permanence in American society, as is exemplified by the bygone cultures of cowboys, jazz or hotel ballrooms. Besides a few tenaciously independent groups, like the Amish, regional cultures are absorbed into "a new common identity" and "a common way of life created around democratically available mass-produced goods." Fisher thus gives a fresh take on the melting-pot thesis, by which national and ethnic differences are said to dissolve into an American identity. Without becoming polemical, Fisher challenges multiculturalists, with their emphasis on ethnic and national differences, by arguing that these differences inevitably diminish in the fluid culture of creative destruction.
Fisher insists that American literature alternates between abstraction, concentrating on "minimal, widely shared traits," and realism, dedicated to "concrete detail" and "specific experience." His discussions of American writers, interspersed with analyses of painters like Thomas Eakins and Winslow Homer, give off many intellectual sparks but do not cohere around a clear thesis. It is typical of the rambling nature of his criticism that "Leaves of Grass" is called a masterpiece of abstraction but later is offered as a prime example of realism. His analysis of William Dean Howells as a novelist of manners whose fiction typically ignores social matters slights novels like "A Traveler From Altruria" or "A Hazard of New Fortunes," in which Howells boldly tackled public issues. Fisher's declaration that "the novel has an almost fated relation to realism, to concrete detail" neglects an important body of experimental European and American fiction featuring surrealistic imagery and distortion of time and space.
There is something self-descriptive about Fisher's discussion of the "easy, light-fitting American personality" that he says is captured in Whitman's line about "the loose drift of character, the inkling through random types." "Still the New World" itself drifts loosely over the American landscape, illuminating major cultural currents and dipping into literary and artistic thickets that make for fascinating, if random, exploration. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: STILL THE NEW WORLD (BOOK)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); KELLOGG CO (50%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LITERATURE (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); HISTORY (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, DAVID S; FISHER, PHILIP PHILIP FISHER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1999



256 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Memo to Gore: Express Yourself!

 BODY:
He's moved his headquarters to Nashville from Washington. He's hired a new campaign manager and fired his pollsters. What else can Vice President Al Gore do to rejuvenate his flagging campaign? The Op-Ed page asked political veterans and others for their suggestions.
 
Bill Hillsman, president and creative director of North Woods Advertising, which created campaign commercials for Senator Paul Wellstone and Gov. Jesse Ventura, both of Minnesota. 
 In Jesse Ventura's gubernatorial campaign last fall, we realized that despite the Democratic front-runner's high poll ratings, the front-runner would inevitably be brought down as voters became more familiar with the candidate's dull campaign style. Therein lies a lesson.
First, Al Gore should stop speaking in manufactured sound bites. He's the sitting Vice President -- we don't believe he's the underdog. Remember, the American people can sniff out a phony on TV at 50 yards. And hearing him quote Janis Joplin sets our teeth on edge.
Second, he should get rid of Tony Coelho. We just got finished with a President mired in scandal. We aren't interested in voting for another one quite yet.
Third, he should get rid of Carter Eskew, his political consultant, who also helped create commercials for tobacco companies during the Congressional fight over Federal anti-tobacco legislation. The morally vacuous proclivity of political consultants to work any side of an issue (usually for the highest bidder), drives normal people nuts, undermines the credibility of the campaign and is at the very heart of what is destructive to our political system.
Fourth, he should stop overreacting to insider negative press and stop paying attention to every conflicting opinion. James Carville did campaigns and consultants no favors with his insistence on rapid response. Al Gore should pursue one vision and speak with one voice.
 
Mario Cuomo, former Governor of New York.
Few people challenge Vice President Gore's intelligence, personal rectitude and substantive command. Instead, his opponents point to polls that say he is behind. No surprise: Vice Presidents are almost always treated as a neglected positive -- like the word "inept." No one ever uses the word "ept," and few think of a Vice President as a powerful, positive force, especially if they have grievances with the President he serves.
Add Gore's relentless solemnity in public appearances, and you have a candidate too heavy to rise in the polls. It's different when he steps out of the role of Vice President and slugs it out on the issues, baring his soul instead of carrying someone else's water.
Remember his debates with Ross Perot and Jack Kemp? Heartfelt debate is more apt to produce spontaneity and reveal the candidate as an individual. That's perfect for Gore. Trading issues head to head with any of his opponents -- or just on the stump -- Al Gore will be charming, compelling and much stronger than he is as President Clinton's "Mr. Vice President."
 
George McGovern, 1972 Democratic Presidential candidate.
Bill Bradley has taken the initiative on issues like health care and campaign finance reform. In response, I would like to hear Mr. Gore acknowledge that the large number of uninsured Americans is part of a larger problem -- to say that it is unacceptable for the greatest nation on earth to permit one out of five children to live in poverty.
And I would like to see him commit himself to the full public financing of Presidential and Congressional elections. This is the most practical way to end special-interest contributions and to allow the candidates with the most innovative ideas -- always Mr. Gore's strong point -- to reach the public.
 
Charles Rangel, Democratic Congressman from New York.
I really believe that Al Gore will ultimately receive the nomination, but I never thought that he was so popular that he could wrap it up. In fact, I'm surprised that Bill Bradley is the only other candidate.
In any case, Mr. Bradley is not a serious threat; there's no substance there. He's just a pleasant alternative to those Democrats who want change. But this primary race is a healthy thing. It will rev Al Gore up and test him for the main event.
 
Howard J. Rubenstein, president of Rubenstein Associates, a public relations firm.
Al Gore should stick to the issues he feels most passionately about and speak about them from the heart. He must emphasize that we have a strong economy and a content public and that we remain the world's leader. Then he must take credit for it. After all, he helped get us there.
 
Deborah Tannen, professor of linguistics at Georgetown University.
Being a great communicator in the age of television does not mean being an orator -- filling a hall with the force of a booming voice and florid turns of phrase. Oratory in our age is conversational, because television has toppled the wall between public and private: public figures sit down to dinner with the family and keep them company in the evening.
President Clinton thrives in televised town hall meetings because he can talk to hundreds of people and sound like a friend who just pulled out a chair at your kitchen table to have a chat.
Al Gore's talents are different: He is warm and personable in private and articulate but formal in public. That's why he excels at debates, because his public style is just right for that setting.
But he also needs to find a way to bring his private strengths into the public sphere. That means fewer press conferences and speeches in front of large audiences, and more one-on-one interviews. Successful communication often means not changing your style, but finding the right context in which you can express who you really are.
 
Al Franken, comedian and author of "Why Not Me?"
My advice to Al Gore is simple: Don't panic. A few bold moves can get your campaign back on track.
1. Move your campaign headquarters to Nashville. This will allow you to run as a "Beltway Outsider."
2. Start calling yourself the underdog. This will better position you to win the "expectations game."
3. Challenge Bill Bradley to a series of debates. This is a win-win. If Bradley refuses to debate, he looks scared. If he does debate, simply appearing on the same platform with him will establish you as a serious contender.
Now is the time to prove that you are the only viable alternative to Bill Bradley. If Bradley stumbles between now and the spring, you'll be in position to step in and take the nomination.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Illustration (J. Abbott Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); TOBACCO MFG (69%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (65%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); HILLSMAN, BILL; CUOMO, MARIO M; MCGOVERN, GEORGE S; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD J; TANNEN, DEBORAH; FRANKEN, AL AL GORE (92%); AL FRANKEN (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



257 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: When Jobs Move Away

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The news that Chase Manhattan is moving 3,500 of its jobs out of New York has tragic meaning for many of the families involved (news article, Oct. 8).
Although these employees cannot be compelled to go to Florida, Texas or Massachusetts, the reality is that with all of our prosperity, it is not so easy to get a new job. 
 What Chase's action means to some is breaking up families, relationships with close friends and church affiliations. To people whose ambition has been to live in what many consider the world's greatest city, it also has meaning that defies evaluation. More and more, we are seeing the tremendous power of corporations to affect the lives of people who work for them.
 
HARRIS L. PRESENT
New York, Oct. 8, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CMB (NYSE) (88%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; PRESENT, HARRIS L CHASE MANHATTAN CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; PRESENT, HARRIS L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HARRIS L PRESENT NEW YORK (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



258 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: Digital Commerce;
How can technology investors move into areas like Africa? One entrepreneur sees the answer in satellites.

BYLINE: By Denise Caruso 

 BODY:
THE technology sector's financial success the last three years has been largely a North American phenomenon.
But some forward-thinking investors have been moving offshore toward untapped markets and investments, often pushing communication technologies into underdeveloped countries in Latin America and Asia. 
 On foreign soil, American investment often looks -- and acts -- remarkably like invasion. And it is sometimes treated accordingly, as cellular telephone providers discovered last year when the Chinese Government abruptly terminated a number of successful joint ventures with vendors like Motorola and Ericsson in favor of its own technologies.
So how will American investors, particularly those drunk on their recent good fortune and feeling perhaps a little invincible, henceforth enter these raw new markets? The answer to that question may determine which nations are pulled into the global market and which are left behind.
Some areas, notably much of Africa, might even welcome an invasion of foreign technology investment.
With nearly 800 million people in nearly 50 countries speaking hundreds of dialects and often in conflict with one another, Africa has attracted almost no technology investment. Add to those problems the continent's relatively high levels of poverty and illiteracy, and the risk-reward ratio is not exactly compelling.
And yet, people like Noah Samara are willing, and even eager, to take the risk.
After 10 years of planning and development, Mr. Samara, the Ethiopian-born founder and chairman of the Worldspace Corporation in Washington, began broadcasting digital radio programming from his company's Afristar satellite on Oct. 1.
Afristar, the first of three Worldspace satellites (two more serving Asia and Latin America are to be launched in 2000), is the first satellite to deliver simultaneous programming to the entire African continent.
If all three satellites are in orbit by the end of next year, Worldspace's potential audience will be more than 4.8 billion people.
Worldspace was conceived when, while practicing law in Washington, Mr. Samara saw the AIDS epidemic ravaging Africa. People needed information desperately to stem the spread of the virus, he realized, but distributing printed materials was expensive and impractical in a continent with so many remote areas and such illiteracy, and televisions were too few and too expensive for most Africans to operate.
Mr. Samara's answer was the world's first portable satellite media receiver: a digital radio that connects with various power sources, including solar panels for poor, rural areas, as well as to PC's and printers.
The receivers, manufactured by Matsushita's Panasonic and JVC subsidiaries, Hitachi and Sanyo, cost about $250 today, Mr. Samara said. That seems prohibitively expensive, but he said that "once you start introducing new products and services, people start working harder to make sure they can benefit from the conveniences."
"We've calculated the number of families in our coverage area that can afford receivers at these prices," he added. "We designed the African satellite's footprint to cover the more affluent Middle East, as well."
Why radios and not the Internet? Digital radio was the only solution that made sense, he insisted, because it was the cheapest, most efficient way to reach the widest population, from poor, illiterate rural villages to more affluent urban areas.
It was also the most adaptable, he said, because the digital radios could also receive data, like documents and static Web pages.
Worldspace, with $1.2 billion of investments, primarily from Saudi backers, hopes to make money by selling time on the satellites to various broadcasters, and by offering pay services of its own. Today, these include Time Warner's CNN International and Bloomberg Financial News as well as national and indigenous broadcasts from countries like Egypt, Ghana, Senegal and South Africa. But more interesting than its commercial services is its goal of creating markets by fighting poverty.
A central part of Mr. Samara's strategy was setting aside 5 percent of his satellites' capacity for a nonprofit organization called Equal Access, which Worldspace started with Solaria, a solar-energy equipment provider and the State of the World Forum (www.worldforum.org), a nonprofit global leadership and education organization formed by Mikhail S. Gorbachev in 1995.
Equal Access aspires to provide free digital radios and a rich flow of basic information, including educational and health programming, to the poorest African villages, at a net cost of $10 a user.
Its strategy is to get money directly from organizations like UNESCO and the World Bank, which have millions of dollars earmarked for poverty-eradication programs.
An early project will be a Pan-African, noncommercial news program, in the tradition of National Public Radio. Mr. Samara calls it "the voice of Africa talking to the people of Africa."
And because the Worldspace radio receiver can also connect with a PC and a printer, even remote villages would be able to receive multimedia data for distance learning and health programs as well as school curriculums in multiple languages.
Perhaps the most critical project for Equal Access, says Tom Rautenberg, director of strategy and program development for State of the World Forum, is a broadcasting service for women and families.
"We've learned from World Bank studies that the education of women and girls is probably the most critical variable in sustainable development," Mr. Rautenberg says. "Their status and economic potential is a leading indicator of how that community is doing and its potential for the future."
Although Mr. Samara is dedicated to changing the lives of Africans and others in developing countries, he argues that the strategy makes business sense.
"We thought a lot about how to subsidize the development of the poorest part of the market," he said. "People need so many things in these areas -- information on hygiene, how to be better entrepreneurs, a whole range of issues. If we can do that, we will help them break through some of the hardest barriers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (83%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SAMARA, RUSSIA (69%); 

COMPANY: WORLDSPACE CORP WORLDSPACE INC (83%); VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLDSPACE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; AFRICA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SAMARA, RUSSIA (69%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; SATELLITES ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); POVERTY RATES (66%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); FAMILY (66%); AIDS & HIV (64%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (63%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%); EPIDEMICS (61%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); 

PERSON: SAMARA, NOAH; CARUSO, DENISE NOAH SAMARA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



259 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report;
Turning small businesses' Internet dreams into reality.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
COMPANIES hoping to do business on the Web are being bombarded with more solutions than ever -- all promising to provide services that address the problem of how to set up shop on line.
And within the E-commerce sphere, the segment that "solutions providers" seem to think needs the most help is the small business category. In fact, they may be right. According to the United States Small Business Administration, only 30 percent of the nation's 24 million small businesses accept orders on the Web, and far fewer can process credit card transactions. 
 But as more of those companies develop a full-scale Internet presence -- and as everyone who ever had a lemonade stand decides to sell something on the Web -- E-commerce software and service providers are competing more furiously for market share.
One increasingly popular approach is to offer "all-in-one" E-commerce packages, in which merchants pay a nominal monthly fee for software that enables them to build a site that is then hosted by a third party -- sparing the client the cost of Web servers and fast Internet connections.
Analysts say such services generally fall short of providing everything businesses need to succeed on the Web, which is, of course, what many promise to do. Still, all-in-one packages have proven to be a good way to test the Internet waters, according to many business people who have used them. And as more competitors enter the market, analysts say, the quality of low-priced E-commerce services should improve.
Rosa Simon, for one, can attest to the wide array of low-cost E-commerce packages available. Last year, Ms. Simon decided to build a Web site, www.blindsdepot.com, to extend the reach of her window treatments business, which she had previously run by herself selling door to door.
A technology neophyte, Ms. Simon looked first at one of the market leaders in one-stop E-commerce setup, Yahoo Stores. As with other companies, Yahoo enables users to build a Web site in minutes by filling out a series of forms on line. For $100 a month, digital entrepreneurs can post their store on Yahoo's site and offer as many as 50 products for sale. The more products offered for sale, the higher Yahoo's monthly fee.
Like its competitors, which range from established companies like I.B.M. to Internet service providers like Hiway Technologies and other portal sites, Yahoo offers a host of additional features. It aggregates orders and sends them via fax to the store owner for processing, encrypts credit card numbers during processing and offers a shopping cart feature, so customers can pay for multiple products at once.
What Ms. Simon could not get from Yahoo -- or any E-commerce provider, for that matter -- was placement high up on the results pages of search engines. Seeking more shoppers, Ms. Simon opted for an all-in-one package provided by iMall, which guarantees placement on its shopping site, www.imall.com. When that also failed to generate sales, she built a store using software provided by Concentric Network, an Internet service provider that hosted the site for $50 a month, and she set about learning how to manipulate the search engines for better placement.
However, the Concentric software tools were somewhat limited for her purposes, Ms. Simon said, so she spent about $500 to build a more sophisticated site with Shopsite software, from Open Market. With the help of a consultant, she also learned how to increase her site's visibility on search engines. The payoff, at last, came in March, when sales started to roll. "I'm making much more than before," Ms. Simon said, though she would not disclose specific numbers. "And I'm working much less."
Jack Staff, chief economist with Zona Research, a unit of Intelliquest, said "there are literally dozens of features that are needed to make an E-commerce site work well" beyond those offered by the one-stop E-commerce companies. Among other things, Mr. Staff said, small businesses need technologies to analyze customer activity on the site, gauge the effectiveness of advertisements, personalize the site for each visitor, build incentive programs, offer coupons and instant discounts, confirm orders and returns and automate E-mail responses. "And then the real issue becomes how to get well known with consumers," Mr. Staff said.
In this regard at least, E-commerce service providers feel their customers' pain. According to Andrew Beebe, chief executive of Bigstep.com, which provides E-commerce services to businesses, profitability and visibility are difficult to achieve in this category. "There are a lot of people doing this," he said, "and they're making a lot of noise."
As for profitability, Mr. Beebe said his company, which began operations last month, "is not making any money at all right now." The plan, at least, is to provide free help to small businesses starting E-commerce sites, then sell them more advanced technology services along the lines of what Mr. Staff, of Zona, described. With 20,000 small businesses currently signed up and hundreds more being added daily, Mr. Beebe said he can negotiate discounts from E-commerce technology providers and extract a margin with every sale to his customers. "But this really is going to be a tight margin game," he said.
That is especially likely if his competitors keep driving the price of services down. "Every time someone else thinks they're going to sell something, we're going to give it away," said Serge Wilson, chief executive of Freemerchant.com, which provides E-commerce services completely free of charge. Mr. Wilson, whose company has signed up 20,000 merchants, earns money by offering suppliers like the Office Max retail chain access to Freemerchant store owners.
Mr. Wilson sees his service as an ideal entree for people who are not sure they want to commit thousands of dollars to an Internet business. "A certain percentage of our merchants will never sell successfully," he said. "It takes the right product, and time and effort."
It also takes more expertise in a given category than many E-commerce newbies are willing to develop, said Larry Erlich, founder of Domainregistry.com, who provides consulting services to small businesses. "Almost without fail, the people who try to start an E-commerce site try something they have absolutely no expertise in," he said. "They're usually involved in a business they could probably make some money with on the Web, but they want to do something else. It's clicks and wishes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosa Simon, of Huntington Beach, Calif., runs her Blindsdepot.com Internet company from her home. Despite some initial difficulties, she says that her business has grown sharply. (Ed Carreon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (86%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); CREDIT CARDS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); NETWORK SERVERS (66%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB; SIMON, ROSA ROSA SIMON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



260 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: POP REVIEW;
The Stars Give a Party For a Global Web Site

BYLINE: By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
When is a benefit not a benefit? When it's a start-up party for a Web site. Three all-star concerts were given on Saturday for www.netaid.org, a Web site intended to take on not just one cause on one occasion but long-term work on five major global issues: poverty, the environment, human rights, refugees and poor countries' debt. It was a way for stars to demonstrate concern about everything from malnutrition in Bolivia to toxic oil-refinery waste in Lake Charles, La.
Net Aid was modeled on Live Aid, the shows in England and the United States that raised $200 million for African famine relief in 1985. While donations were accepted (to be used for refugee relief efforts in Kosovo and in Africa), the goal of Net Aid was primarily to publicize the Web site. Net Aid, supervised by the United Nations Development Program, is a clearinghouse for volunteer efforts, donations, information on agriculture and business development and Internet-style organizing, including an E-mail petition urging developed countries to forgive $371 billion in third-world debt. 
 The United States concert, Net Aid New York, took place at Giants Stadium (which is in New Jersey, in East Rutherford). The nearly eight-hour show began and ended with Wyclef Jean and Bono. They had collaborated on a song for Net Aid, "New Day," which touches on problems from unemployment to crime to homelessness but promises, "Sun got the darkness on the run." The lineup also included Puff Daddy, Sting, Jewel, Mary J. Blige, Busta Rhymes, Sheryl Crow, the Black Crowes, Counting Crows, Jimmy Page, the Algerian singer Cheb Mami and the Italian rocker Zucchero. Although nearly all the performers have sold at least a million albums each, the scattered lineup didn't fill the stadium; the top tier was empty, as were expanses of the lower tiers and the field.
Between sets, the audience at Giants Stadium saw video clips from the two other Net Aid concerts: a packed performance at Wembley Stadium near London, with a lineup including David Bowie, the reunited Eurythmics, George Michael, Bush, Bryan Adams, the Corrs and Robbie Williams, and an invitation-only event at the Palais des Nations in Geneva with Bryan Ferry and Des'ree, which was attended by Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations. The concerts were broadcast on radio stations in 132 countries and shown on VH1 and MTV in the United States and on the BBC. A two-hour show of excerpts is scheduled for Wednesday night at 8 on the TNT cable network.
With television cameras transmitting to an international audience, the musicians didn't stint on production values. They brought full bands, choirs, string orchestras and, for Puff Daddy, pyrotechnics. They also refrained from profanity.
Some stars brought out their most earnest, idealistic anthems. Bono -- dressed in a quasi-military uniform and wearing a cap from Jubilee 2000, an organization pressing for debt forgiveness -- sang "One" with a string orchestra conducted by Quincy Jones, insisting, "We got to carry each other." Jewel declaimed like a gospel preacher in "Life Uncommon," which grows militant: "There is a new army coming and we are armed with faith/To live, we must give."
Others just treated their short sets as condensed versions of a regular show. The guitarist Jimmy Page rocked the stadium with time-tested arena fare when he played his old Led Zeppelin songs while Chris Robinson, of the Black Crowes, sang as much as he could like Robert Plant; Mr. Robinson, a Southerner, was imitating an Englishman who emulated Southern blues singers. Mary J. Blige lavished her voice on songs about romantic strife, as her vows and pleas gave way to wordless, virtuosic swoops, blending the cutting tone of Dinah Washington with the gutsiness of Gladys Knight. Busta Rhymes set off one party chant after another, machine-gunning syllables and racing around the stage.
Net Aid is touted as the largest Web site to date, showing off technology from Cisco Systems, which contributed more than $10 million to the site; it claims the ability to handle one million connections a minute. The concerts were shown on the Internet, through an electronic network 10 times larger than the previous largest Webcasts (for Victoria's Secret and the opening of the 1998 Olympics), able to send out 125,000 video streams simultaneously. But on a home computer with a 56K modem, sound and video quality were still murky, and network traffic made connections difficult in some areas. Douglas Graham, who oversaw the design and software of the Web site for KPMG, ascribed the problems to local Internet providers and high Internet use on Saturday.
Even more than Live Aid, the Net Aid concert drove home stark contrasts between the haves, onstage and in the audience, and the have-nots. Puff Daddy's songs celebrated material success -- the Mercedes, the cell phones -- but then, in a burst of piousness, insisted there's more to life than a platinum Rolex. He was the concert's prime showman, with a white piano, a white-robed gospel choir, puffs of flame and two guest hard-rock guitarists to show he's keeping up with the metal-rap trend: Slash of Guns 'n' Roses and Mr. Page, who let Puff Daddy turn Led Zeppelin's "Kashmir" into a wounded lover's rant.
Video clips, shown during equipment changes, detailed harrowing situations and statistics: arms hacked off during Sierra Leone's civil war, 22 million refugees, 800 million people chronically undernourished, 1.3 billion people in extreme poverty. They made for some bizarre juxtapositions. Immediately after a segment on teen-age prostitution and drug addiction in Russia, a video clip of the Corrs at Wembley was shown. "It really doesn't matter if we don't eat/It really doesn't matter if we never sleep," they sang, " 'Cause we are so young now."
Nearly absent from the concerts was any music from the countries that Net Aid is intended to help most. Sting made an effort by turning over a song (and his band) to Cheb Mami, an Algerian rai singer with an expressive, fine-pointed voice. And Mr. Jean, over-reaching his limited skills on guitar, tried to cover the United States (with rap, rockabilly and blues) and the Caribbean (with "Guantanamera" and a version of "Hot, Hot, Hot" that turned the original soca into a Haitian compas). As cyberspace is now, Net Aid was a sphere of the affluent, but one that envisions affecting the whole world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: WMY (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (52%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ENGLAND (72%); SWITZERLAND (71%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM WEMBLEY PLC (52%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ENGLAND (72%); SWITZERLAND (71%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); REFUGEES (77%); FAMINE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); MALNUTRITION (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON BONO (57%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



261 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Ford's Deal With Auto Workers Has an Unusual Twist

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 10

 BODY:
In difficult labor talks with the Ford Motor Company, the United Automobile Workers union finally agreed to an unusual compromise: it would allow the company to spin off its giant auto parts unit as long as Ford did not spin off workers with it, people briefed on the deal said today.
After nearly 30 consecutive hours of negotiations, the union and the company reached a tentative agreement Saturday afternoon on a four-year contract for Ford's 101,000 unionized workers, averting a potential strike. Under the deal, workers, who are expected to ratify the agreement later this month, would receive annual raises of 3 percent on top of adjustments for inflation, plus a signing bonus of $1,350. 
 To clinch the deal, Ford was forced to agree that the 23,500 workers at its Visteon Automotive Systems unit would remain Ford employees -- with pensions and even paychecks from Ford -- even after the company was spun off, the people said.
"It is like the janitors working in a commercial building -- they work for you but are paid by a different company," one of those briefed on the terms of the labor agreement said.
Stephen Girsky, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said the quirky compromise was necessary to prevent Ford's historically strong labor relations from disintegrating into strife that could cause costly strikes. "Is it a perfect solution?" he said. "No, but it is probably the best solution they could've come up with. Effectively, Visteon will be renting employees from Ford."
Ford has been eager to follow in the footsteps of the General Motors Corporation, which spun off its Delphi Automotive Systems unit in May. Ford had explored selling Visteon to Delphi or to another parts maker, the Lear Corporation, but is leaning toward spinning it off.
Under the terms of the labor accord, a Visteon spinoff would create a giant manufacturing company -- Visteon has about $17.8 billion in revenue and more than two dozen factories in the United States alone -- with almost no blue-collar employees.
While details remained unavailable today, and neither the union nor Ford would discuss them, those briefed on the contract terms said that new workers hired for Visteon factories would most likely be on Visteon's payroll, although they would have the same pay and benefits of current Ford workers. It is unclear whether Visteon would simply reimburse Ford for its payroll costs, or whether Ford might win price breaks on Visteon auto parts purchases that would offset the labor costs, or whether there might be some other arrangement.
Ford wants to spin off its in-house supplier, in part because it thinks that Visteon could win more work from rival auto makers as an independent company.
The terms of the agreement have left both sides frustrated. Ford executives are grumbling because they expected the union to allow them to spin off Visteon under the same terms that G.M. got after spinning off Delphi without consulting the union.
Under a contract reached on Sept. 28, the 48,000 former G.M. workers who now receive paychecks from Delphi are paid the same rates and receive the same benefits and pensions as G.M. workers. They are allowed to switch back to G.M. jobs when such jobs become available, and are promised layoff pay and other benefits from G.M. in the event that Delphi fails or runs into financial trouble before 2007.
But Ford could not get the same deal. The union found unexpectedly strong, emotional opposition to a Visteon spinoff from rank-and-file members and from some members of its bargaining team. Talks with Ford took longer than expected, and were clearly more difficult than either side had bargained on. Last week, the negotiations became so heated that they dissolved into shouting matches on several occasions, according to one person briefed on the negotiations.
While local union officials had not been briefed today on the details of the agreement, some said they had heard that the deal would allow Ford to spin off Visteon, with workers remaining Ford employees.
"That is still not acceptable to me," said Roger Caldwell, president of U.A.W. Local 845 in Plymouth, Mich., whose workers build heaters and radiators for the Visteon unit.
Because the contract includes big raises, and because less than one-quarter of Ford's unionized employees work at Visteon, the union's rank-and-file is expected to approve the contract when it comes to a vote later this month.
The agreement effectively completes the U.A.W's drive this autumn to negotiate fresh labor contracts for the nation's 400,000 unionized auto workers. On Sept. 16, the U.A.W. reached a deal with DaimlerChrysler A.G. DaimlerChrysler and G.M. workers won the same big raises as Ford's workers.
The Canadian Auto Workers union has also been negotiating new contracts this fall. It has already reached an agreement with Ford and DaimlerChrysler, and will begin negotiations with G.M. this week. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); VC (NYSE) (85%); LEA (NYSE) (84%); 9921 (TAIEX) (64%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336370 MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (84%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS FORD MOTOR CO (96%); VISTEON CORP (85%); LEAR CORP (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); GIANT MANUFACTURING CO LTD (64%); VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; FORD MOTOR CO; VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



262 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. to Take Part in Alliance With Other Computer Giants To Better E-Commerce Security

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ARMONK, N.Y., Oct. 10

 BODY:
I.B.M., the world's largest computer company, said today that it would become part of an industry alliance to create better security for electronic-commerce transactions.
In addition to I.B.M., the Trusted Computing Platform Alliance includes the Compaq Computer Corporation, the Hewlett-Packard Company, the Microsoft Corporation and the Intel Corporation. 
 The alliance's purpose is to develop a universal standard for equipment and software so that technology companies can make personal computers more secure, I.B.M. said.
"It's good that there's that many vendors involved," said Roger Kay of the International Data Corporation. "The agreement favors the average PC user in terms of giving them control over distribution of their information and greater comfort in doing E-business."
Business-to-business trade on the Internet is expected to increase to $1.3 trillion in 2003 from $43 billion last year, according to Forrester Research. Alliance members said the agreement makes sense as more consumers buy goods and services on the Internet.
"We see E-business expanding, and PC's are a critical piece of that expansion," said Alan Hodel, a Compaq spokesman. "As PC's evolve, the standards for security need to evolve with them."
PC users will benefit most directly from the alliance's efforts, Mr. Kay said.
"This gives the user a greater degree of assurance that the transaction they were doing wasn't being snooped, and they'll be more comfortable moving their business to the Internet," he said.
Mr. Kay predicts that other companies, like the Dell Computer Corporation, may join the alliance. "Dell sounded like they'd go along with it," he said.
A spokesman for Dell, based in Round Rock, Tex., was not immediately available to comment. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (93%); DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (72%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; TRUSTED COMPUTING PLATFORM ALLIANCE; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (93%); DELL INC (84%); INTEL CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (72%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (70%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; TRUSTED COMPUTING PLATFORM ALLIANCE; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTER SECURITY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; COMPUTER SOFTWARE ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (92%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RETAILERS (75%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); 

PERSON: ROGER KAY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



263 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Milt Jackson, 76, Jazz Vibraphonist, Dies

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF 

 BODY:
Milt Jackson, the jazz vibraphonist who was a member of the Modern Jazz Quartet for 40 years and was one of the premier improvisers in jazz with a special brilliance at playing blues, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, Chyrise Jackson. 
 All the best jazz musicians know how to take their time, and Mr. Jackson was no different. Originally a singer in a Detroit gospel quartet, he created a new sound in the 1940's by slowing down the motor on his Deagan Vibraharp's oscillator to a third of the speed of Lionel Hampton's; a result, when he chose to let a sustained note ring, was a rich, warm, smoky sound, with a vibrato that approximated his own singing.
"He came closer than anyone else on the instrument to making it sound like the human voice," said the young vibraphonist Stefon Harris yesterday. "It's a collection of metal and iron, and we don't have the ability to bend notes and make vocal inflections like a saxophone. But Milt played the instrument in the most organic way possible -- with a warm, rich sound. He set a precedent that this instrument can speak beautiful things, and that it's not just percussive."
Mr. Jackson, who was born in Detroit, had become an impressively broad musician by the middle of his teen-age years. He had perfect pitch, and he began teaching himself guitar at the age of 7, started piano lessons at 11 and in high school played five instruments: drums, tympani, violin, guitar and xylophone; he also sang in the choir. By the age of 16, he had picked up the vibraphone as well, encouraged by a music teacher, and sang tenor in a popular gospel quartet called the Evangelist Singers as well as beginning his jazz career, playing vibraphone with Clarence Ringo and the George E. Lee band.
Out of high school, he almost joined Earl Hines's big band, but his draft notice intervened. In 1944, back in Detroit after two years of overseas military service, he set up a jazz quartet called the Four Sharps. (He admitted that he got his nickname, Bags, from the temporary furrows under his eyes incurred by a drinking binge after his release from the Army.) Dizzy Gillespie saw the quartet at a Detroit bar on a swing through the Midwest, and called upon Mr. Jackson in 1945 to join his band in New York.
Mr. Jackson's style, then and later, came from Charlie Parker, rather than Mr. Hampton, his most prominent precursor on the instrument; he not only tried to achieve a hornlike legato with his mallets, but he adopted many of Parker's rhythmic traits as well. He was the first bona fide bebop musician on the vibraphone, and became one of the prides of Gillespie's own band. Gillespie also brought him to Los Angeles to fill out his sextet at Billy Berg's club, hedging against the probability that Parker, who was in the band and at the low point of his heroin addiction, would fail to show up.
Back in New York in 1946, Mr. Jackson recorded some of bebop's classics with Gillespie's orchestra -- "A Night in Tunisia," "Anthropology" and "Two Bass Hit." Mr. Jackson, the pianist John Lewis, the bassist Ray Brown and the drummer Kenny Clarke were the rhythm section of Gillespie's band. "Dizzy had a lot of high parts for the brass in that group," remembered Mr. Brown. "So he said, 'I have to give these guys' lips a little rest during concerts, and while they're resting, you should play something.' " The development of this rhythm section's relationship led to some recordings for Gillespie's own label, Dee Gee, by a new band known as the Milt Jackson Quartet.
Mr. Jackson left Gillespie and came back to him again for a period in the early 1950's. And in 1951, with Thelonious Monk, he made recordings that would further the idiom again, weaving his linear improvisations around Monk's abrupt, jagged gestures on pieces including "Criss Cross" and "Straight, No Chaser."
Mr. Lewis, the pianist, began to have ideas about forming a new group, one that would go beyond the notion of soloists with a rhythm section. He had an extensive knowledge of classical music, had been involved in the sessions with Miles Davis and Gerry Mulligan that would become known as "Birth of the Cool," and he envisioned a more deliberately formal feeling for a small band. In 1952 the Modern Jazz Quartet began, with Clarke as drummer and Percy Heath as bassist. Connie Kay replaced Clarke in 1955. After a while, Mr. Lewis became the group's musical director.
The group wore tailored suits and practiced every aspect of their public presentation, from walking on stage to making introductions to the powerfully subdued arrangements in their playing. They wanted to bring back to jazz the sense of high bearing it had been losing as the popularity of the big bands was slipping and jazz became more of a music predicated on the casual jam-session. Through two decades of immaculately conceived and recorded albums on Atlantic Records, beginning in 1956, their vision was borne out. Initially, they found that audiences were somewhat startled by the authority of their quietness; eventually the group would be one of the few jazz bands embraced by an audience much wider than jazz fans.
Mr. Lewis economized, playing small chords and creating a light but sturdy framework for the music, and Mr. Jackson was the expansive foil, letting his tempos crest and fall, luxuriating in the passing tones and quick, curled runs of bebop. It was often supposed that he grew frustrated with his role in the band; in a recent interview Mr. Jackson said he felt that Mr. Lewis suppressed the group's sense of swing. In 1974 he left, dissolving the band until it reunited for the first of several tours in the 1980's. Mr. Kay died in 1994, and the Modern Jazz Quartet, with Mickey Roker sitting in for him, gave its last performance the following year.
Besides being widely acknowledged as one of the music's greatest improvisers, Mr. Jackson wrote a lot of music -- most famously the blues pieces "Bags' Groove," "Bluesology" and "The Cylinder." He recorded widely. He made small-group and orchestral records in the early 1960's, collaboration albums with John Coltrane and Ray Charles, and a large number of records on the Pablo label during the 1970's and 1980's with Mr. Brown on bass, as well as Gillespie, Count Basie, Oscar Peterson and others. In 1992 he began a series of albums produced by Quincy Jones for the Qwest label; the most recent, from this year, was "Explosive!," recorded with the Clayton-Hamilton Jazz Orchestra. The last collaboration with Mr. Brown and Mr. Peterson, "The Very Tall Band," was issued this year by Telarc.
In addition to his daughter, of Fort Lee, N.J., he is survived by his wife, Sandra, of Teaneck, and three brothers: Alvin, of Queens, and Wilbur and James, both of Detroit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The vibraphonist Milt Jackson, a founding member of the Modern Jazz Quartet, at the Blue Note in 1995. (Steve Berman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); MUSIC; JAZZ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RELIGION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); CANCER (56%); LIVER DISEASE (56%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, MILT; RATLIFF, BEN LIONEL LEO HAMPTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



264 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Clinton's Consumer Rip-Off

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla.

 BODY:
"You want to buy this new cable service that's much faster than your old modem," my son the information architect told me. Not wanting to become the slowpoke pundit, I called my local cable company and ordered ExpressNet. A new black box cost $150 and the monthly fee was $25.
Two weeks later, a disembodied voice called to say that the superspeed Internet connecting service had merged with a Texas conglomerate and if I didn't agree to the doubling of the monthly rate, my service would end and I would be stuck with a useless $150 receiver. 
 I again called my local cable monopoly. Although I never reached a human being, its complaint software signaled that I could continue for six months at the original rate, after which it was double or nothing.
This minor outrage came to mind in watching the gee-whiz, ain't-these-big-numbers-fun accounts on television news of the latest combinations of corporate colossi.
Worldcom, which last year bought MCI, was now swallowing up Sprint for $115 billion. This, analysts assure us, will allow the new supergiant to compete with AT&T, which already is plunking down $58 billion for Mediaone with the smiling approval of roundheeled Clintonites at the Federal Communications Commission.
Why are we going from four giants in telecommunications down to two? Because, the voice with the corporate-government smile tells us, that will help competition. Now each giant will be able to hedge its bets in cable, phone line and wireless, not knowing which form will win out. The merger-manic mantra: In conglomeration there is strength.
That's what they said a long generation ago when business empire-builders boosted their egos by boosting their stock to buy the earnings of unrelated companies. A good manager could manage anything, they said, achieving vast economies of scale. As stockholders discovered to their loss, that turned out to be baloney.
Ah, but now, say the biggest-is-best philosophers, we're merging within the field we know best. And if we don't combine quickly, the Europeans and Asians will, stealing world business domination from us. The urgency of "globalization," say today's mergermaniacs, destroys all notions of diverse competition, and only the huge, heavily capitalized multinational can survive.
That's why we see the old Seven Sisters of oil working their way down toward two big sisters having fun with fungibility, and why our former Big Seven accounting firms are headed to a Big Two. Unchecked international combines can crush unions, water down professional ethics, circumvent national regulation and stick it to consumers.
Here are two startling, counterintuitive thoughts: The fewer companies there are to compete, the less competition there is. And as competition shrinks, prices go up and service declines for the consumer. (Say these reactionary words at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, and listen to the global wheeler-dealers guffaw.)
Who is supposed to protect business and the consumer from the power of trusts? Republican Teddy Roosevelt believed it to be the Federal Government, but the antitrust division of Janet Reno's Justice Department is so transfixed by its cases against Microsoft and overseas vitamin companies that it has little time to enforce antitrust law in dozens of other combinations that restrain free trade.
Our other great protector of the public interest in diverse sources is supposed to be the F.C.C. When MCI merged with Worldcom last year, the chairman appointed by President Clinton, William Kennard, took no action but direly warned that the industry was "just a merger away from undue concentration." Now that is happening.
Why will the F.C.C., after asking for some minor divestiture, ultimately welcome a two-giant waltz? For the same reason that the broadcasters' lobby was able to steal tens of billions in the public's bandwidth assets over the past few years: Mr. Clinton wants no part of a communication consumer's "bill of rights."
Candidates Bradley, Bush and Gore look shyly away lest trust-luster contributions dry up. Only John McCain dares to say: "Anybody who glances at increases in cable rates, phone rates, mergers and lack of competition clearly knows that the special interests are protected in Washington and the public interest is submerged."
Today's populist message comes to you by my old, slow modem. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PROTECTION CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MERGERS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); APPROVALS (65%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); CONSUMER LAW (62%); ETHICS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



265 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: The Senate Confronts Soft Money

 BODY:
When campaign finance reform comes before the Senate this week, Trent Lott and other enemies of cleaning up the system will make the usual predictions that reform cannot win. In fact, the Republican leadership's barricade against change is crumbling. Under pressure from a growing number of business leaders, and rising outrage over a projected $3 billion to be spent in the current campaign, some important Republicans are thinking about supporting the McCain-Feingold "soft money" ban. Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska is planning to offer amendments, a welcome sign that he and others might be showing up to help pass the bill, not block it.
A solid bipartisan majority passed campaign reform in the House last month. In the Senate it is backed by a majority consisting of all 45 Democrats and 7 Republicans. But eight more Republicans are needed to break the filibuster to be engineered by Mr. Lott and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. 
 Mr. McConnell, an energetic fund-raiser and ardent proponent of the present system, is telling colleagues that changing the campaign laws is a liberal plot to destroy the Republican Party. In fact, Democratic Party professionals also fear that banning soft money -- the unlimited money that corporations, unions and rich individuals give to the parties -- would cripple the Democrats. What the bill will really do is curb each party's ability to haul in vast corrupting sums from special interests looking for favors.
The core bill to be introduced by Senators John McCain of Arizona and Russell Feingold of Wisconsin is a simple ban on soft money, without an earlier provision regulating contributions to independent groups for their campaign ads. Their aim in pushing this stripped-down version was to lure Republicans genuinely worried about regulating the rights of such groups. We support the restrictions on these groups' fund-raising but also accept the tactic of dropping that part of the bill. Democrats pushing to re-attach the regulation of independent groups should realize that they are probably reducing the chances of winning enough votes to get the entire bill passed in the Senate. One alternative might be to widen disclosure requirements for money donated to independent groups that run campaign ads before an election.
Amendments to be offered by Mr. Hagel or other Republicans should be aimed at attracting more supporters without opening loopholes to corrupt money. The Senate can consider raising ceilings on donations to candidates, but only if the soft-money ban for the parties remains intact. Among the senators whose constituents should press them to join this process are Spencer Abraham of Michigan and William Roth of Delaware. Both are in tough re-election fights in states where voters care about campaign reform. They must know that they would receive tremendous credit at home for standing up for principle, not campaign money.
This is a signal moment for Mr. McCain, whose poll numbers in New Hampshire are starting to move upward in his drive for the Republican Presidential nomination. But other Republicans, notably Susan Collins of Maine, have been working hard to corral support within their party. Mr. McConnell's bullying tactics have not worked. After his threatening letter to the Committee for Economic Development, telling it to stop recruiting among businesses for support for the soft-money ban, the committee doubled its membership to more than 200 leaders.
Mr. McConnell likes to define campaign donations as free speech. But everyone knows that money does more than talk in Washington. It buys influence. The only way to stop that practice is to limit the money that sloshes through the system. Most Americans, most House members and most senators agree. The only question now is whether the majority or cash will rule. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ETHICS CAMPAIGN FINANCE (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (88%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



266 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: One Wide-Reaching Slash Could Settle Budget Battle

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
Running out of weapons in their politically charged fight to finance the Government without using Social Security money, Republicans in Congress are turning to the crudest of fiscal tools, an across-the-board cut in spending.
That blunt instrument would be a last-ditch choice for Republican leaders. The political risks are such that analysts are skeptical that Congress will use it. But party leaders say they support the idea, and 54 Republican senators passed a nonbinding resolution in favor of it last week. 
 "We are drawing the line," said Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, the majority whip. "If necessary, and hopefully it will not be necessary, we will implement across-the-board reductions."
That would avoid the difficulty of cutting specific programs by spreading the pain. And Republicans say they will do whatever is necessary not to reach the point at which Government spending for the fiscal year that began on Oct. 1 dips into excess Social Security revenue.
The Republicans are well aware that the cuts could generate widespread public opposition and draw intense attacks from President Clinton and Democrats in Congress. And because Republicans are talking about exempting the military and veterans' programs from the cuts, the reductions could fall even harder on domestic and social programs.
"This approach is a sign of desperation," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
The cuts would be so painful that many Republican lawmakers have no stomach for them. But they say they have few alternatives.
The Republican spending bills increase money for the Pentagon, while freezing or cutting some domestic programs. So an across-the-board cut would mean some real reductions in social spending.
"Who wants to cut 6 percent out of education, health care, medical research?" asked Representative C. W. Bill Young, the Florida Republican who heads the House Appropriations Committee. "But if the leadership directs us to do it, we'll do it."
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, and the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, say the cuts must be made if the alternative is tapping Social Security funds.
"It's an indication of how desperate they are up on Capitol Hill for a way out of their appropriations problem," said Stanley E. Collender, head of the Federal budget consulting group at Fleischman Hillard, a public relations firm.
The cuts could also aid the Democrats' argument that the Republican majority in Congress cannot meet its most basic responsibility of setting priorities and passing spending bills.
"An across-the-board cut is the ultimate confession of policy failure," said Robert L. Bixby, policy director of the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan fiscal watchdog group. "It's the meat cleaver approach."
One difficulty would be the pressure to exempt the military, veterans and other favorites. "As soon as you talk about across-the-board cuts, everybody jumps up and salutes it, and then their second point is, 'But I have this very special program,' " said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader.
Conservatives outside Congress said the approach was not ideal, but better than raising tobacco taxes, as Mr. Clinton has proposed, or breaking the Republicans' pledge not to use Social Security revenue for general Government operations.
"It looks like the least bad of several bad choices," said Peter Sperry, a budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization.
Spending some Social Security money would have no direct effect on the retirement system's long-term financial condition and little or no economic impact. But it has immense political significance for Republicans.
Congress has still not finished work on 6 of the 13 spending bills needed to finance the Government, now operating under spending authority that expires on Oct. 21.
The Republicans are trying to limit overall spending outlays for Government agencies to $592 billion for fiscal 2000 -- roughly the same as fiscal 1999 -- and they are using every accounting device available.
For example, the Pentagon spending bill delays payments to military contractors from late September 2000 to early October 2000, shifting $1.25 billion of spending into fiscal 2001, Congressional aides said.
Similarly, Republicans are weighing whether to delay Federal workers' paychecks for late September until early October 2000, shifting about $3.6 billion in spending into the next year, those aides said.
The Republicans' only alternatives to this kind of creative bookkeeping are cutting their spending bills or tapping the Social Security funds.
It is possible that the Republicans will achieve their goal on time and on budget. But it will be hard. Congress is on track to use at least $8 billion of the Social Security surplus, House Republican estimates show.
To bring outlays down by $8 billion in fiscal 2000, Congress would have to pass and Mr. Clinton would have to sign into law across-the-board cuts of 2.7 percent, or $15.2 billion in budget authority, the Republicans estimate.
Budget authority, which pays for one or more years of spending, must be cut deeper to yield savings in outlays, which cover only one year.
Under a 2.7 percent cut, the military would have to furlough close to 100,000 personnel, disband an Army division and a Navy carrier battle group and deny health care to many veterans, House Democrats say. If military and veterans programs were exempted, the cuts on all other programs would be 6.3 percent, Republicans and Democrats say.
But the cuts might have to be even deeper. The Congressional Budget Office and the White House have both judged the Republicans to be on track to spend at least $19.2 billion of the Social Security surplus.
To avoid that, the cuts would have to be 6.9 percent if the military and veterans are included and 16.1 percent if not, Democrats on the House Budget Committee say.
The precise effect across-the-board cuts would have on specific programs is hard to predict. But the cuts would almost certainly shake every branch of the Government, from national parks to national security, and force thousands of layoffs.
They would cut off funds for food and education to hundreds of thousands of poor children, cancel millions of home-delivered meals for the elderly and hobble Federal law enforcement, the White House says.
The White House budget director, Jacob J. Lew, said in an interview that in many ways a 2.7 percent cut would be the worst of both worlds, failing to protect the Social Security surplus while hurting the needy.
"This idea hasn't been floated lightly, and we're taking it seriously," he said. "But it's a silly way to make policy." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); VETERANS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (67%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (65%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; STEVENSON, RICHARD W TRENT LOTT (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); C W BILL YOUNG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



267 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON OPPOSES A PLAN BY ALLIES TO GIVE SERBS AID

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10

 BODY:
With winter fast approaching, the United States and its allies are deeply divided over whether to increase the isolation of Yugoslavia and its leader, Slobodan Milosevic, or to offer some aid to ease the hardship of Serbs in the hope of encouraging a more vital opposition.
On the eve of a meeting on Monday of the 15 European Union foreign ministers in Luxembourg, the Clinton Administration has outlined its strong opposition to plans by the group to provide heating oil and other aid to certain Yugoslav cites controlled by opposition parties, American and European officials said. 
 Under the program, the European Union would initially supply two cities with about $5 million in heating oil to help cope with shortages caused by destruction of Yugoslavia's petroleum refineries during NATO's air war over Kosovo. That aid would be the first part of a broader package that would eventually include food, medicine and even small-scale public works projects, European officials said.
But American officials have said they fear that the assistance could shore up Mr. Milosevic by alleviating public discontent, which they hope could lead to protests in Yugoslavia, early elections, or even Mr. Milosevic's ouster or resignation.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright has laid out the Clinton Administration's objections in a series of discussions with her European counterparts, including Foreign Secretary Robin Cook of Britain and Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany. "We're concerned about proposals that may have appropriate humanitarian goals but may lead to developments that directly or indirectly support the regime," said the State Department's chief spokesman, James P. Rubin.
The dispute over providing aid highlights the dilemma facing the United States in the wake of NATO's air war over Kosovo last spring, which left Mr. Milosevic politically battered but still clinging to power. The quarrel also underscores Washington's philosophical differences with the Europeans over how to further isolate and weaken Mr. Milosevic's Government.
While the United States has said it supports aid to relieve the suffering of ordinary Serbs, it has ruled out any aid for reconstruction in Yugoslavia as long as Mr. Milosevic remains in power.
Many American allies in Europe, however, view things differently.
"The Europeans don't necessarily see isolation as the only way to do away with Milosevic," said Ivo Daalder, a former National Security Council aide who now studies the Balkans for the Brookings Institution.
"The Administration wants to keep the pressure on," he added. "They're afraid, one, that if you divide the allies from us Milosevic will exploit these divisions and, secondly, that the allies are weaker than we are, as on Iraq and Iran, and will undermine the sanctions."
Since the war ended, Yugoslavia has remained under strict sanctions that prohibit trade, even as millions of dollars of aid has poured into Kosovo, which is technically still a province of Serbia, but increasingly is being administered by the United Nations as a separate entity.
The sanctions against Yugoslavia, coupled with NATO's destruction of bridges, refineries and factories, have caused the country's already feeble economy to collapse. There are shortages of foods, and spiraling inflation is making even basic items unaffordable for many.
In a report on Sept. 20, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said that as winter sets in, Serbia faces severe shortages of electricity, heating oil and coal. Electricity supplies, it warned, could fall 40 to 50 percent below its requirements as winter progresses.
"The overall impact of such shortages is expected to be increased morbidity and mortality, particularly in urban areas," the report said. "The most vulnerable will be the elderly, the very young, the sick and the urban poor."
Mr. Rubin said the United States, based on its own analysis, did not believe that the energy shortage would be substantial, but the Europeans have shown more willingness to consider ways to respond to the warnings.
The European Union has been trying to tailor a relief program that would not directly support Mr. Milosevic, who has been charged with war crimes by the international tribunal in The Hague. During a meeting last month, the group's relief office pledged roughly $40 million in aid.
European officials said they planned to provide aid only if they could guarantee that it would not end up in the hands of Mr. Milosevic's Government. The $5 million worth of heating oil being considered under the initial plan would, for example, go to two cities in southeastern Serbia -- Nis and Pirot , which are governed by opponents of Mr. Milosevic's ruling Socialist party.
Mr. Daalder said such plans had potential downsides, especially since energy, like money, can be easily diverted to the central Government. "These localities don't have real power other than political power," he said. "They don't have police or security power. How do you assure it doesn't get stolen or simply taken away?"
At their meeting in Luxembourg, the foreign ministers are expected to discuss ways to insure that Mr. Milosevic's central Government could not redirect the assistance -- something that Dr. Albright demanded in her discussions with them.
"They have to prove they are democratic forces," one European diplomat said of potential aid recipients, "and we have to be sure these funds are not siphoned off to the Government of Slobodan Milosevic."
The diplomat said that directing aid to cities, rather than denying it, could shore up the opposition leaders by showing the people of Serbia that the international community is prepared to help those committed to democracy. Otherwise, European officials have argued, the democratic opposition is left looking as if it is in partnership only with Western countries that first bombed Yugoslavia and now want to make Serbs suffer still more.
"If you give them some glimmer of hope if they chose another path, they might chose the other," the official said. "It is a carrot-and-stick question. The E.U. sees more profit in the carrot than the stick." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); LUXEMBOURG (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; HEATING; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COUPS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



268 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Hardship Aid for Serbs Divides U.S. and Allies
The United States and its allies are deeply divided over whether to increase the isolation of Yugoslavia and its leader, Slobodan Milosevic, or to offer some aid to ease the hardship of Serbs in the hope of encouraging a more vital opposition as winter fast approaches. A1
 
Blame for Mexican Floods
Opposition politicians in Mexico have fanned citizen anger over eastern Mexico's worst flooding in decades, saying the disaster was caused by Government negligence. A statement issued by the Federal Government put the official death toll at 314, while unofficial tallies compiled by Mexican news agencies said more than 400 died. A8 

Timor-Indonesia Border Buildup
The United Nations-backed peacekeeping mission in Dili, East Timor, said it would triple the number of its troops along the border with the Indonesian-controlled half of the island in an effort to thwart attacks by anti-independence militias. A4
 
Leftists Gain in Berlin
The successor to East Germany's Communist Party drew on a ground swell of disillusionment about the transition to capitalism to surge to its best showing yet in Berlin city elections. The former Communists, once discredited, are still ranked third behind the center-right Christian Democrats and the center-left Social Democrats, and the election will leave Berlin's local Parliament essentially unchanged. A9
 
Europe Defense Worries U.S.
A plan to create a defense arm for the 15-nation European Union is stirring fears among American civilian and military officials in NATO about unnecessary replication that the allies can ill afford. A9
 
Two Sides of Chechnya War
As Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia contends that his military operation is going well, the Chechens insist that they have beaten back the Russian advance. The Chechens say they have regrouped and retaken a number of villages. A3
 
Malaysia Frees Reporter
Murray Hiebert of the Far Eastern Economic Review was freed today from a prison on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur after serving four weeks of a six-week sentence for contempt of court. Mr. Hiebert, 50, of Steinbach, Manitoba, lost an appeal of a 1997 conviction for an article he wrote about the growing number of defamation suits in Malaysia. The imprisonment drew widespread condemnation and focused attention on press restrictions. (AP)
 
New Prime Minister in Peru
President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru appointed Alberto Bustamante Belaunde, a lawyer who defended Peru before the Inter-American Human Rights Court, as the new Prime Minister. Mr. Bustamante replaces Victor Joy Way, who resigned on Friday to run for Congress. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A10-15
 
A.F.L.-C.I.O. to Endorse Gore, Its Leader Says
The president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., John J. Sweeney, said that Vice President Al Gore would receive the endorsement of the powerful labor federation at its convention this week because a two-thirds majority of delegates had committed to Mr. Gore's Presidential campaign. A1
 
G.O.P. Weighs Spending Cuts
Running out of weapons in their politically charged fight to finance the Government without using Social Security funds, Republicans in Congress are turning to the crudest of fiscal tools, an across-the-board cut in spending. A10
 
2d Trial in Wyoming Slaying
Jury selection begins today in the trial of Aaron James McKinney, left, the second of two men charged with kidnapping, aggravated robbery and murder in the death of Matthew Shepard, a student at the University of Wyoming. Mr. Shepard was beaten, tied to a fence and left to die, perhaps because he was gay. A10
 
Satellite Launching From Sea
A multinational company has launched a communications satellite into space from a platform in the Pacific Ocean, the first such launching from sea rather than from land. A15
 
Bush Warned on G.O.P. Attacks
Continued attacks on Republicans in Congress by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas could hurt him on Capitol Hill should he become President, said a Republican lawmaker, Representative Ray LaHood. A12
 
Wildfires Nearly Contained
Firefighters were gaining yesterday on two wildfires in the Los Padres National Forest in California that were started by a lightning storm a month ago along the central coast. One fire had burned about 48,815 acres, and the other nearly 34,850 acres. The fires have forced the evacuations of dozens of people, including the monks of the New Camaldoli Hermitage monastery. (AP)
 
Gasoline Prices Decline
Gasoline prices dipped about half a cent nationwide over the past two weeks as crude oil prices fell, said Trilby Lundberg, director of the Lundberg survey, which covers 10,000 gasoline stations across the nation. The weighted average nationwide as of Friday was $1.33, down .53 cents per gallon from a survey on Sept. 24. The drop in gas prices follows an increase of more than 14 cents per gallon that started in early June. (AP)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Colt's Curtails Gun Making In Effort to Limit Liability
Colt's Manufacturing, which invented the six-shooter, the companion of cowboys and Texas Rangers, is abandoning much of its 144-year-old retail gun business in an effort to limit its liability in lawsuits. Colt's plans to make far fewer weapons and sell them mainly to law enforcement agencies and the military. It will effectively stop selling handguns to civilians, except to gun collectors. A1
 
Concerns Over Virus Diagnosis
The sudden switch in the diagnosis of a mosquito-borne virus in New York has caused concern among many of the scientists and Government officials who are working to strengthen the nation's defenses against biological warfare. They saw the outbreak as a test of how public health officials could detect and deal with the sudden spread of a disease not typically found in the United States. A1
 
Pays Fare, but No Rent
The Hungarian-American Chamber of Commerce of New York and New Jersey, which paid for two trips by Gov. Pataki to Hungary a few years ago, has an office at the World Trade Center for which it pays no rent to the building's owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. A spokesman for Mr. Pataki said the Governor had played no role in the decision to give the chamber the office. B1
 
Cardinal Misses a Mass
John Cardinal O'Connor did not say Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral, conceding the toll of radiation treatments. He said he hoped to return on Sunday. B6
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
Red Sox Beat Indians
Boston defeated Cleveland, 23-7, to tie their American League Championship playoff series, 2-2. D1
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Milt Jackson
The jazz vibraphonist was 76. He was a member of the Modern Jazz Quartet for 40 years and a premier improviser in jazz with a special brilliance at playing blues. A17
 
Otto Storch
A magazine art director and advertising photographer who introduced an expressive typographic style to women's magazines, he was 86. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Unusual Deal in Ford Pact
The United Automobile Workers union finally agreed to an unusual compromise in difficult labor talks with the Ford Motor Company: it would allow Ford to spin off its giant auto parts unit as long as the company did not spin off workers with it. C2
 
PC Bargains for Union Workers
A new A.F.L.-C.I.O. program will offer heavily discounted computers and on-line service to 13 million union members. C1
 
Change Sought in Digital TV
Nearly 300 of the nation's 1,600 television stations have filed a petition with the Federal Communications Commission requesting a revision in the nation's digital TV standard. C18
 
Limits to Easing of Export Rules
Under plans to relax restrictions on exports of data-scrambling software, a key issue that escaped notice was that the new policies affect only shrink-wrapped software. C5
 
Reporter's Notes Subpoenaed
A reporter for a magazine published by a civil rights group has been subpoenaed to provide tape recordings and notes of an interview with a murder defendant. C15
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Silence on Museum Dispute
After Mayor Giuliani threatened to evict the Brooklyn Museum of Art over the "Sensation" exhibit, so many of the city's art institutions signed a letter objecting to his actions that the holdouts were conspicuous by their absence. E3
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: The Senate confronts soft money; crackdown in Iran; a better way to treat the old.
 
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E4
 
Public Lives A10
 
Crossword E6
 
TV Listings E9
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather B8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); CANADA (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); 

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (77%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); CANADA (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); MANITOBA, CANADA (77%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); SENTENCING (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); NEGLIGENCE (70%); LIBEL & SLANDER (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); LAWYERS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); CITIES (51%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



269 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: After Paying Pataki's Fare, A Free Office

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
When the Hungarian-American Chamber of Commerce of New York and New Jersey paid for two trips by Gov. George E. Pataki to Hungary a few years ago, the group was based in suburban New Jersey and listed its official address as its president's home.
These days, it has more distinctive quarters: a small office on the 63d floor of 1 World Trade Center. 
 The chamber pays no rent to the building's owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The authority's executive director, Robert E. Boyle, who was appointed by Mr. Pataki and is his longtime friend, gave the furnished office to the chamber at no charge. A similar space elsewhere in the trade center complex would rent for roughly $6,000 a year without furniture.
The authority also contributed $2,500 to help sponsor a trade conference held by the chamber at the World Trade Center in 1997. And it was not the only government agency connected to Mr. Pataki to lend its name. The Pataki administration's economic development arm also was a sponsor.
When the Governor accepted the trips in 1995 and 1996, his aides said the chamber was a nonprofit outfit that promoted trade with Hungary and had nothing to gain from the Pataki administration in return.
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for the Governor, said Friday that the Governor had played no role in Mr. Boyle's decision to give the chamber the office and the help with the conference. Asked whether this assistance was linked to the trips, Mr. McKeon said, "We are pleased that we and the Port Authority have a good working relationship with the chamber."
Monika Szarka-Elling, the chamber's president, did not respond to two messages on Friday seeking comment.
Until recently, the World Trade Center address was listed on the chamber's Web site (www.haccusa.org) as its primary office. After The New York Times reported last month that three large corporations with interests before the Governor had made sizable donations to the chamber and had been involved with the Hungary trips, the address was removed from the Web site. The only address that now appears is a post office box in Far Hills, N.J.
Allen Morrison, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said the authority had not offered free office space to other nonprofit trade groups. He said Mr. Boyle gave the chamber the office, which is about 200 square feet, because the chamber did valuable work, not because it had paid for the Governor's trips.
He said Ms. Szarka-Elling approached Mr. Boyle in February 1998 and asked for an office, and Mr. Boyle agreed. Mr. Morrison noted that the office, which has no window, was in an area occupied by the Port Authority staff, so even if the chamber did not use it, the authority would not customarily rent it out. As such, the authority did not lose money on the office, he said.
"We would entertain similar requests from other nonprofit trade development groups," Mr. Morrison said, "as long as the request is in keeping with the Port Authority's mission to promote trade in the Port of New York."
The State Ethics Commission, which permitted the chamber to pay for Mr. Pataki's trips to Hungary after determining that the chamber had no business before the Governor, is now considering whether to investigate the financing of the trips.
Of the three corporations that contributed to the chamber, the tobacco giant Philip Morris gave the most -- $10,000 shortly before the first trip, $10,000 a few weeks before the second and another $10,000 a year later. The other two corporations are Bristol-Myers Squibb, the pharmaceuticals conglomerate, and Pepsico.
Mr. Pataki's aides have said that he and others in the administration were not aware of the donations.
If it can be determined that the corporate donations were intended to pay for the trips, that could be a violation of state ethics rules barring the Governor and other administration officials from accepting gifts of $75 or more from companies doing business with the state, even through a third party.
It is unclear whether the chamber's use of the World Trade Center office would fall under the ethics rules.
The Port Authority is not technically part of the Pataki administration and the state government. It is a bi-state agency that Mr. Pataki controls jointly with Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey.
The authority would not allow photographs of the office, which has a desk, a circular table with four chairs and a bookcase adorned with a large photograph of Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Morrison said there was nothing unusual about the authority's decision to support the chamber's trade conference, which was called "Trade 2000: Developing Hungarian Business Partnerships." In previous years, the chamber had held the event in New Jersey. Mr. Morrison said the authority had contributed to a few similar trade conferences held by other groups in recent years.
The Empire State Development Corporation, the Pataki administration's economic development arm, also sponsored the event, but Maura Gallucci, an agency spokeswoman, said it had not contributed money.
She defended the administration's ties to the chamber, which is now known as the Hungarian-American Chamber of Commerce U.S.A. She said the Governor's first trip to Hungary, which was both a family vacation and a trade mission, had helped lead to the construction of a glass factory in upstate New York that had created 300 jobs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUNGARIAN-AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); PORT AUTHORITY (93%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUNGARIAN-AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY (93%); WORLD TRADE CENTER (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HUNGARY; HUNGARY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ETHICS TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); ETHICS (64%); WEB SITES (62%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BOYLE, ROBERT E; MCKEON, MICHAEL EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



270 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: These Aren't the Days, My Friends;
Russian Singers See Young Snub Brighton Beach Clubs

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
Misha Gulko sat in a dinner club on Brighton Beach Avenue in Brooklyn, tripping excitedly on his words as he tried to recount the decades of his fame, from Khrushchev to Yeltsin, in just a few minutes.
Mr. Gulko, an icon of Russian lounge singing, flipped through dozens of posters and photo albums, with picture after picture of him in his signature Cossack hat with an accordion slung around his beefy middle. He fingered the tapes of his greatest hits -- songs of war's pain, love's loss, the cold of Siberia, the trials of immigration. 
 But what he really wanted to do was sing, not reminisce. So as the floor above thumped with the oompah beat of synthesizers and the wail of other Russian musicians, the man who says his age is a professional secret packed up nearly 40 years of memories and walked up the sweeping staircase to the stage of the National Restaurant.
Dressed in black, he was Perry Como with Wayne Newton moves. And the other musicians, whether middle-aged or barely in their 30's, rose in cheers when he finished belting out a brassy Russian love song. He had played everywhere, from Australia to Jerusalem, but sliding into a chair next to a smiling young woman, he pulled down the brim of his leather hat, still wanting to bask in this small moment.
"What do you think about that?" he asked, pushing every word through a thick accent. "Pretty darn good."
None of the other musicians contradicted him, although he had just crashed their party, a practice session for a music festival aimed at younger Russians. Instead, they crowded around to shake the hand of a man who had inspired so many of them, a living legend of the music scene in Little Odessa by the Sea, as this community is known because so many here emigrated from that city in Ukraine.
But Mr. Gulko also illustrates why the dinner clubs and cafes of Brighton Beach find themselves confronting a generation gap. He and other popular performers still draw an older crowd, but younger Russian-Americans generally shun the clubs, with their towering platters of sliced beef, bottomless glasses of vodka and schmaltzy Russian standards. Nor have they been stirred by modern Russian pop, which is still mired in the Western styles of one or two decades ago.
"The Russian culture here is just bad; it's plastic and tacky," said Alisa Nevmark, 15, whose parents brought her to this country when she was 5. "I would rather go to a museum than one of these places. It's just too bizarre."
Ms. Nevmark, who was standing one night outside the Odessa, another famous dinner club just off the strip, at first even refused to admit that her parents were Russian, choosing to note instead that her father was "a chemist."
Her generation's indifference and, in some cases, outright loathing, are not the only reasons for worry in the traditional music scene in Brighton Beach.
While Russians continue to move to New York in record numbers, many are settling in other parts of the city. Some older Brighton Beach residents are doing the same as they gain economic stature and feel more at ease.
And the recent immigrants are more diverse. While many of their predecessors were Russian Jews escaping persecution, they tend to be more splintered by religion, education and economic class, with different tastes in entertainment.
But those who hope to keep the Russian lounge scene alive see the biggest difficulty in attracting teen-agers like Ms. Nevmark and their older siblings, who came here as children and feel little attraction to the culture. Older performers lament that many young Russians even refuse to speak their native tongue.
The bittersweet times evoked in the sentimental songs of Mr. Gulko mean little to young Russians. To them, "Gulko is like a dinosaur," said Anatoly Aleshin, 45. And Mr. Aleshin's pop style, while newer, is still stuck in the 1970's and 1980's, he said.
"The people coming to these shows now are my age and older," Mr. Aleshin added, noting that his son, now a 20-year-old college student, stopped coming to his shows once the family moved from Russia to Brighton Beach.
"There aren't a lot of young musicians coming up in the clubs anymore," Mr. Aleshin said, "and the youngsters just are not interested in this stuff. They would all rather go to discos."
Making matters worse, some performers said, is that some of the area's most popular Sinatra-style crooners have returned to Russia, while younger stars of the hit parade in Russia come to New York only to buy vacation homes. They said there is little reason for these musicians to perform in Brighton Beach for less money, and often with less artistic freedom.
Some of the club singers, especially those few in their 20's and 30's, say they have notebooks full of original compositions -- from rhythm and blues to songs in the angry-girl style of L7 and the funky blend of a Luscious Jackson. But the Brighton Beach club crowd expects mostly golden folk oldies, with an occasional late-night English rendition of "Fools Rush In" or "That's Amore."
For the jam session Mr. Gulko crashed, the acts had been carefully picked to represent the diversity of Russian music and attract younger people. Alla Samoilova, the manager of Brighton Beach's Interesting Gazette Newspaper, a sponsor of the event, said there was even an age cutoff, which left Mr. Gulko and his songs of the Czar and the cold war out of the spotlight. Two similar festivals are planned for next month, she said, the first on Nov. 4 at Restaurant Tatiana.
"We need to let people know that these great musicians exist," she said. " Who knows, maybe an American producer will come."
But if the Sept. 23 festival at the National Restaurant was any evidence, a vast divide remains between what club owners consider hip and what young Russians think is cutting edge.
Mr. Aleshin was there, his hair feathered and his black shirt slightly open, inciting the crowd to clap along between courses of pickled herring, chicken Kiev and caviar. Misha Botsman sauntered around under sparkling disco balls, singing Russian and Italian love songs in the style of Burt Bacharach, reducing the audience to a weepy silence. And Anatoly Kireev let it all hang out in the Tom Jones tradition, sending the crowd home humming "Delilah."
Some of the singers had been warned not to perform anything too biting, original or bawdy, so as not to offend the older fans. Few did, although Lera Max performed an edgy tune as she swept about the stage tossing a shock of red hair. And Veronica, who goes by the single name, pushed the dress code as she sang coolly of love in a platinum page-boy haircut and a tight pink miniskirt with a low-cut top.
The festival was a compilation of what young Russians have come to expect: out-of-date songs and unsettling kitsch no more likely to appeal to them than a Catskills comic or a Las Vegas crooner.
Ms. Nevmark said that the only reason she had come to the Odessa, a palace of cruise ship opulence with a mirrored ceiling, was to celebrate a sweet-16 birthday party sponsored by a friend's parent. She and her friends grimaced when asked about the clubs and the festival.
In Manhattan and elsewhere, they said, there are clubs with Russian-language music more to their tastes -- techno, rap and pop not unlike the music on MTV.
But little of that can be found in Brighton Beach. Even though the cafes serve food and welcome all ages, the teen-agers clearly had no interest in spending any time at places like Club Arbat, Rasputin or Pastorale, where a woman in a black-and-white-striped top hat was likely to be singing "Lean on Me" or pirouetting around a man juggling silver propellers.
"I barely even speak Russian," said Neil Spitkov, 16. His friend Richard Batelman, 15, added that the clubs play "this old Russian music" for young people "who are basically American."
As the teen-age partygoers loitered in their high-cut evening dresses and black Gucci-style suits, the faint echo of a synthesizer came from inside the Odessa. The familiar blippy beat caused the teen-agers and people in their 20's to flee the dance floor as middle-aged men jumped up to dance.
"It's just not our generation," Ross Knopov, 16, exclaimed in frustration. "I mean, a lot of it's just so cheesy."
It is doubtful that Mr. Gulko would agree. He said the old Russian tunes he lays out every few nights in Brighton Beach remain the richest in the world. The younger generation likes "music without soul," he said, but he holds out hope that they will come around as they grow older.
"People hunger for bread, vodka and music, that is all," he said. "But people want understanding from music about broken life, broken love."
Mr. Gulko held up a small, yellowed picture of his parents, taken before the Communist revolution. "Only the old music is meaning over money," he said. "Only it comes from the gut and the soul."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Misha Gulko, a fixture in the Russian clubs, at the National Restaurant. He says the young prefer "music without soul." (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); Promoters hope that singers like Lera Max, above, could draw younger people to the Russian clubs in Brighton Beach. At right, Russian-American teen-agers dancing at a party at Odessa, a club they say they rarely visit.
 
Chart: "Break Out the Accordion"
For years, the Vegas-on-the-Volga stylings of singers like Misha Gulko have ruled the lounges and dinner clubs of Brighton Beach. But worries are growing that the popular hits of the past, like this Gulko standard, do not entice young Russians.
 
From Stop, Train! Wheels Don't Rumble
 
Don't wait, mother, for your good son.
He is not the man he was.
I have been sucked in by the swamp of danger.
My life is an eternal gamble.
 
(Translated from Russian)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); ISRAEL (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%); 

COMPANY: MTV NETWORKS

ORGANIZATION: MTV NETWORKS

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIGHTON BEACH (NYC); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); ISRAEL (55%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; MUSIC; RUSSIAN-AMERICANS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); REFUGEES (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); FESTIVALS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R; GULKO, MISHA PIERINO ROLAND 'PERRY' COMO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



271 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: A Mystery in Louisiana Governor's Race

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Ever since he began running for a second term, Gov. Mike Foster of Louisiana has been dogged by one political embarrassment and mix-up after another.
At times, he says, he wonders whether running for office is worth all the grief, especially when he could be down on some bayou in Cajun country, where he grew up, hunting birds instead of votes. 
 "A lot of people want me out of office," he said this week while campaigning in New Orleans. "A lot of them enjoy all this grief I'm taking."
It is no exaggeration to say that the Governor is taking some political grief. What is perhaps more interesting is that despite it, he remains a heavy favorite to win on Election Day, Oct. 23.
That probably says as much about how the political game is played in Louisiana as anything.
The more curious and outlandish twists a contest takes here, the more voters seem to like it, especially if there is a whiff of corruption or dark dealing, real or imagined. As they say in Southern Louisiana, that's lagniappe, a little something extra added to the recipe or moment at hand.
Mr. Foster's grief began with an incident in which the Governor, a Republican, ended up acknowledging that in his first run for office, in 1995, he secretly bought the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke's list of contributors and supporters for a whopping $150,000.
Then, just as the furor seemed to be dying down, along came a Federal grand jury and the state Ethics Board, asking a lot of questions about the deal.
The Ethics Board ordered the Governor to pay a $20,000 fine for not reporting the purchase as a campaign expenditure, but chose to ignore accusations, denied by the Governor, that what the $150,000 really bought was not access to supporters of a racist who is still politically powerful but a promise by that racist not to jump into the governor's race.
The grand jury wanted to know, and apparently still is pondering, whether Mr. Duke ducked paying taxes on the $150,000.
Now, with Election Day just two weeks off, comes the strangest and most curious campaign incident yet.
A few days ago, several news organizations in Louisiana received copies of an audio tape of a conversation the Governor recently held with a private investigator from New Orleans, Dwayne Alexander. Who recorded the conversation and who distributed copies of it remain a mystery, but neither the Governor nor Mr. Alexander questions the tape's authenticity.
In the conversation, the Governor, who has summoned Mr. Alexander to his office, says he has learned that the investigator is "spying" on him. He demands to know who hired Mr. Alexander and why.
"I was hired to do a job," the investigator replies elliptically.
Mr. Foster tells Mr. Alexander that spying on a Governor is unwise and warns, "If you're doing it, I don't think it's to either one of our best interests." He says he will turn the tables on anyone who tries to "mess" with him and will have "a lot of fun messing back."
Then he suggests that Mr. Alexander become a "double agent."
The tape ends there. But Mr. Alexander has since said he refused to become a double agent, considers the incident over and has gone about other work.
Federal, state and local investigators have said they see no reason to become involved in the dispute, that it is strictly an issue between the Governor and Mr. Alexander.
As the Governor tells it, he was "just talking with Alexander, no threats, just fooling around with him, feeling him out, trying to figure out what he was up to."
"You always have to keep in mind that I've got a lot of political enemies out there," Mr. Foster said on Wednesday while talking to reporters on a visit to The Gambit Weekly, a local tabloid.
But probably he has nowhere near enough enemies to turn him out of office on Oct. 23.
Despite all his problems, the Governor has a lot going for him besides the forgiving nature of Louisiana voters. As a result, his challengers -- there are 11 in all -- are having big trouble finding political traction, including the strongest of the candidates, Representative William J. Jefferson, a five-term Democrat from Louisiana's Second Congressional District, which includes most of New Orleans.
Like the rest of the country, Louisiana, long beset by economic difficulties, is now booming, and Governor Foster is riding that boom. The state's schools, among the nation's worst for many years, are now beginning to improve, thanks in part to overhauls pushed by the Foster Administration. And the state's business and property owners, once among the easiest targets in the land for personal injury lawsuits, now enjoy extra safeguards, thanks to changes pushed through by the Governor.
Also, this being Louisiana, the race is not being run like most races for governor.
There are no primaries, only an initial contest in which all Democrats, Republicans and independents run together. If no candidate emerges from that with a clear majority, there will be a runoff on Nov. 20 between the top two finishers.
Few polls have been taken and those that have carry the usual caveat that they were conducted for candidates. But, significantly, not one released thus far shows the Governor with less than 50 percent of the vote.
Mr. Foster says he has "high hopes" he can win it all the first time around.
Mr. Jefferson is banking on a runoff.
A black candidate in a state whose population is 30 percent black, Mr. Jefferson expects to get all of the black vote in the first contest. He also predicts that he will pull enough white votes to end up with 45 percent of the ballots cast, and he says he is confident that the 10 other candidates together, even though little known and short of money, will take 10 percent to 15 percent.
"The math on that leaves the Governor with only 45 percent of the vote at best, and that means a runoff," Mr. Jefferson said this week after a campaign swing through the city. "Come that runoff, if I can hold my original vote and pick up roughly half of the white vote that went to the 10 other guys, who will then be out of the running, then I've got a real shot at being Governor."
If Mr. Jefferson pulls it off, he will be the first black to win statewide office in Louisiana since Reconstruction. If he falls short, he can run again for Congress in 2000 or for mayor of New Orleans -- his ultimate goal, many of his friends suggest.
The big issues in the governor's race, as Mr. Jefferson sees them, are the "fiction" that the Governor has significantly improved the state's schools and economy.
Mr. Jefferson said that he had much of the labor and teacher vote sewed up and that that would not be the case if the Governor had achieved all he said he had.
Mr. Jefferson says he expects to spend almost $1.5 million on his campaign, about $1 million of it raised two weeks ago when President Clinton came to town for a fund-raiser.
The Governor says he will spend about $3 million.
Most of the state's political professionals and political scientists foresee an easy Foster victory, maybe not a clean-cut win on Oct. 23, but a victory eventually, probably a big one.
Edward F. Renwick, who follows state political developments as director of the Loyola University Institute of Politics in New Orleans, says that while a reasonable mathematical case can be made that the Governor will fall short of winning 50 percent of the vote in a crowded field on Oct. 23 he is as certain to win a runoff as anything can be certain in Louisiana politics.
"Bet on it," Mr. Renwick says.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mike Foster of Louisiana has been at the center of a series of mix-ups, the latest involving a taped conversation with a private investigator. (Amy Beth Bennett/The Shreveport Times via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (98%); LOUISIANA, USA (98%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; FOSTER, MIKE (GOV) DAVID DAVIS (72%); DAVID DUKE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999



272 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2073 words

HEADLINE: Improbably, The Tiger Survives

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER 

 BODY:
In an old Vietnamese myth about how the tiger got its stripes, a man tries to show the great cat who's boss by lashing it to a tree and setting the tree on fire. But the tiger is so powerful and so inured to pain that it strains against the flaming rope until it breaks free, its brush with extinction evident only in the black marks seared on its fur.
So, too, it turns out, with the real tiger. As recently as the early 1990's, researchers were convinced that the largest and most sumptuously pelted of the world's cats, an animal more feared, revered, fetishized and lionized than the lion itself, was about to go up in smoke. Once the tiger abounded throughout Asia, from eastern Turkey to the Sea of Japan, from Siberia in the north to Indonesia in the south. But humanity's expanding numbers, and its lust for land, tiger body parts and the prey on which the tiger feeds, had taken such a huge toll that by 2000, many biologists gloomily predicted, the wild tiger would effectively be extinct. 
 But now, like a furred phoenix rising or a creature cognizant of its nine-lifetime warranty, the cat has come back. Far from disappearing, the tiger in some parts of its range is practically thriving, its numbers measurably greater today than just a few years ago. Though conservationists who have long battled to save the tiger warn against complacency and emphasize that the tiger is still endangered, they admit to an unusual sensation these days: optimism.
"We're all encouraged, which is very different from how we felt five or six years ago," said Ginette Hemley, vice president for species conservation at the World Wildlife Fund. "We won't be able to save the tiger everywhere, and we've learned that we cannot ever drop our guard again, but in some areas there's been some real progress."
Researchers and conservationists from around the world gathered last month in New York for a three-day conference called "Saving the Tiger: Assessing our Success," held under the aegis of the Wildlife Conservation Society, which runs the Bronx Zoo.
At the meeting, researchers presented data indicating that tiger populations are better off now than they were earlier this decade in eastern Siberia, Nepal and some areas of India.
For example, in the Ranthambhore forest south of Delhi, popular among ecotourists eager for a glimpse of tiger, a 1993 census found at most 20 tigers left in the region's 318 square miles. The latest tally, which has yet to be officially released, suggests that the figure has doubled and is still rising.
Even in countries where biologists feared that the tiger was doomed, including Sumatra, Burma, Thailand and Cambodia, scientists at the meeting reported encouraging signs of resilience.
"We had such a surprise," said Dr. John Seidensticker, the curator of mammals at the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoological Park in Washington. "We thought Sumatra was a loss, but it turns out that even with its enormous political turmoil, which is often accompanied by increased poaching, there are pockets where survey data show there are good levels of tigers, more than we expected to be found."
The tiger is by no means faring well everywhere. In the mangrove swamps of Bangladesh, where biologists had thought tiger populations were relatively healthy, new survey results indicate fewer than the predicted number of cats. And across its entire range, the tiger is still quite scarce. Dr. Peter Jackson, the chairman of the Cat Specialist Group of the World Conservation Union in Switzerland, estimates that there are 5,000 to 7,000 tigers left in Asia. Nobody knows how many tigers dwelt on the continent originally, for there were no efforts to track tiger populations until about 1972, but the number a century ago was probably at least 10 times greater than today.
Nevertheless, that the mighty tiger is holding its own in many pockets heartens biologists and offers a refreshing counterpoint to the dirges in conservation circles, with their bleak refrains of a world peopled solely by weedy species like squirrels, crows, roaches, rats and people.
The biologists attribute the tiger's recovery to several factors. For one, many Asian countries have begun cracking down harshly on poachers, who in the early 1990's were killing tigers willy-nilly, mostly to obtain tiger bone, a popular ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine.
For another, conservationists have succeeded in gathering critical information about tiger biology, hunting practices and reproduction rates to advise governments on how best to save the great cats. That advice varies from region to region, but one theme predominates: the best way to save the tiger is to save the tiger's prey: the deer, wild cattle and wild pigs that tigers eat, said Dr. K. Ullas Karanth, "like hamburgers."
"If you manage the prey species well, the tigers will take care of themselves." said Dr. Karanth, a conservation zoologist for the Wildlife Conservation Society, who is based in Bangalore, India.
To guarantee that there will be enough prey to support tigers, he added, a country must set aside some places where humans are not allowed to hunt, and hence where prey animals can always find haven to breed.
"For a while, it was very popular to talk about 'sustainable use,' the idea that you could have human use of a tiger habitat and still have tigers," Dr. Karanth said. "But our prey data have shown that we need to have nested within these sustainable use areas some truly protected places."
Asked if it was likely that protected areas could be set aside for the long term in countries as populous as India, Dr. Karanth said: "I'm 51 now. When I first started going into the Indian forest, at age 18 or 19, I thought soon there would be no more forests. But there are more protected areas and more tigers now than when I had given up hope as a young man."
"If you can do it in India," he said, "you can do it anywhere in the world."
Nor do people living in the tiger's range need to be convinced of the cat's worth, Dr. Seidensticker said, or told why saving the tiger is the right thing to do, morally, ecologically and economically.
"I remember talking to a Government official in Bangladesh a number of years ago, who said to me: 'You don't have to tell me that we should save the tiger. Of course we should save the tiger. Just tell me how we can do it,' " Dr. Seidensticker recalled.
In India, he said, the tiger is considered a national treasure, and not for nothing do other countries in the tiger's domain call themselves, sometimes wistfully, "Asian tigers."
That the tiger hangs on suits its metaphorical heft, which, like the fortissimo timber of its roar, has carried far, wide and deep. The powerful Hindu goddess Durga rode a tiger mount, while Siva, the god of destruction and reproduction, sat on a tiger skin. In the Chinese calendar, every 12th year is the year of the tiger, and it is considered a lucky, powerful year to be born (that means you, 1998 babies). The Romans loved the tiger, identifying with its deadly might, and brought them from Turkey as mascots. The Emperor Nero kept an entire stable of them, and Bacchus, the god of wine, was depicted in mosaics as riding a chariot drawn by tigers. William Blake mused in a seditious nursery rhyme about the "tyger, tyger, burning bright, in the forests of the night." Many other tigers have infiltrated children's consciousness, as Winnie the Pooh's strong, foolish friend Tigger; cartoon Calvin's stuffed animal, Hobbes, and a well-known spokesbeast for Sugar Frosted Flakes.
The symbolic value of the tiger is flamboyant enough that, several years ago, a shareholder stood up at a corporate meeting for Exxon, which long urged drivers to put a tiger in their tank. The tiger has been so accommodating as logo and sound bite, the shareholder said, that it's time to give something back to the tiger. As a result, Exxon, with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, began a Save the Tiger fund in 1995 that will dispense $9 million over eight years to various tiger preservation programs, to which conservationists, ever strapped for cash, responded "Gr-r-eat!"
For all the tiger's cultural presence, the animal proper is devilishly difficult to find in the wild. It lives largely in dense forest underbrush, where its striped pattern keeps it well camouflaged, so well that at least one renowned tiger researcher admits he has never seen a tiger in the wild. Other tiger biologists have spotted their subjects repeatedly, yet they say it always feels as good as the first time. "Even finding their tracks is exciting," Dr. Jackson of the Cat Specialist Group said. "And when you see the tiger itself, it's an awesome sight."
Only in the Sunderbans, a swampy forest that straddles India and Bangladesh on the Bay of Bengal, do people hope not to see tigers. Living in the Sunderbans are about 250 tigers notorious for being man-eaters, and every year they kill a dozen or so people who venture into the forest to collect wood or fruit. Recently, people have had some success in preventing attacks by wearing hats with eyes painted on the back, for tigers rely on the tactic of surprise, ambushing their prey from behind.
Apart from the Sunderbans, though, tigers have learned, after centuries of being hunted, to shy away from human beings. They prefer meatier meals in any event, the better to support their massive bodies. Tigers vary in size depending on where they live and what subspecies they are. The largest tigers are the Siberian males, which may be nine feet long and weigh more than 500 pounds. The smallest tigers are the Sumatrans, with males of 250 pounds and females 50 pounds lighter.
Coats also vary from one subspecies to the next. Siberian and Himalayan tigers live in cold climates and relatively open spaces, and so they have long, thick, relatively light-colored fur, while the tigers that live in the tropics have short, dark fur. Every so often a Bengal tiger is born with almost white fur, the result of a recessive genetic trait. These rare specimens have an otherworldly glow and a magician's reputation.
Whatever the hue, all tigers have an almost magical capacity for hunting. An adult can pull down a wild bull two or three times its size, puncturing the prey's throat with canine teeth bigger than your index fingers. Tigers, which have extraordinarily keen vision, can hunt by sunlight or darkness, and researchers have been surprised to find tigers hard on the trail in the heat of midafternoon, when many creatures are taking siestas.
A tiger is a semisolitary cat, living and hunting alone most of the time, but not averse to occasional congregations. Young males disperse at adolescence, but a daughter will often continue to live near her mother for much of her life, inheriting the mother's territory when she dies.
Females are not the only doting parents. Recently, males have been observed eating, playing and traveling with their cubs. They have reason to look after their young: an interloping male will often try to kill the resident cubs, his hope being that, by doing so, he will put the mother tiger back into heat and have a chance to mate with her. And tigers do mate and breed readily, which is why, scientists say, they can rebound from near-extermination when given half a chance.
In seeking to allow tigers to take care of themselves, conservationists have joined forces lately with purveyors of traditional Chinese medicine. One reason tigers hit bottom in the early 1990's, researchers said, is that the explosive growth of the Chinese economy led to an equally strong demand for products used in traditional Chinese medicine. Tiger bone has long been a staple item in preparations to treat arthritis, rheumatism and other muscular aches and pains. Rather than excoriate traditional Chinese medicine as superstitious hogwash -- an approach doomed to fail, given the enormous popularity of Chinese medicine -- conservationists have approached experts in the discipline to see if there were alternatives to tiger bone that could be promoted. They have discovered, through examining traditional texts, that one option is to substitute the bones of an Asian rodent called a sailong, which is common in China.
One way to make sailong bone desirable might be to charge more for it than tiger bone ever commanded. It worked for fake fur, didn't it?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reports that the tiger is fading into extinction may be premature. A remarkable recovery appears to be taking place. (Dani-Jeske/Animals Animals)(pg. F1); The Siberian tiger, which lives in cold climates. Many scientists who had foreseen the tiger's demise just a few years ago are now optimistic. (Joe McDonald/Animals Animals)(pg. F5)
 
Map of Asia highlighting the tiger's habitats. (Sources: Eric Dinerstein, World Wildlife Fund; Peter Jackson, IUCN; John MacKinnon, ABC; Dale Miquelle, Hornocker Wildlife Institute; John Robinson, WCS; John Seidensticker, Smithsonian National Zoo)(pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (91%); INDONESIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); DELHI, INDIA (51%); 

COMPANY: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; NEPAL; INDIA; SIBERIA; ASIA (91%); INDONESIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); UNITED STATES (52%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); DELHI, INDIA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TIGERS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES WILD CATS (91%); CATS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ANIMALS (75%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (74%); ECOTOURISM (69%); CENSUS (64%); 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE TIGER SURVIVES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



273 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN GAINS. The yen rose amid fading expectations that the Bank of Japan's policy makers would increase the money supply to stem the yen's rise. In New York, the dollar settled at 106.68 yen, down from 107.56 Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since May 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JAPANESE YEN (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MONEY SUPPLY (86%); TRENDS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



274 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: What Is a Minority-Owned Business?

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Long united in the struggle to maintain special breaks for nonwhite entrepreneurs, some civil rights leaders and minority business groups have become divided over a basic concept: what is a minority-owned company.
Many black and Hispanic owners of large businesses are arguing that the traditional definition -- a company in which members of minority groups own 51 percent -- limits their ability to raise capital by selling stock. But leaders of large civil rights groups and minority small-business owners say that changing the definition will further erode the whole idea of affirmative action. 
 At issue is a proposal by the National Minority Supplier Development Council to relax the definition of what would be considered a minority company. The council, based in New York, is a private organization that certifies whether companies can be considered owned by minorities. Many large corporations rely on the council's evaluation process to determine whether companies they are contracting with are, in fact, owned by African-American, Hispanic or Asian-American entrepreneurs.
On Oct. 26 in Phoenix the council's 80-member board will vote on a resolution that would allow minority companies to sell stock and, in some cases, retain the council's certification, even if the stock sale results in minorities owning as little as 30 percent of the company.
Supporters of the change say it is needed to allow minority companies to grow and to compete against larger white-owned companies.
"Our commitment is to assist the development of minority business," said Harriet Michel, president of the council, which is made up of Fortune 500 corporations. "Minority firms must be allowed the same opportunity to grow in this global economy, to be competitive and not to be continually defeated because they don't have access to capital."
Larger minority-owned companies say they need access to capital without losing the council's certification, without which they might not be eligible for a company's minority contracting program.
"It gives you an introduction," said Joe Arriola, who is Cuban-American and chairman and chief executive of Avanti-Case Hoyt, a graphics arts company that does nearly $160 million worth of business and has offices in Miami, Chicago and Rochester.
Mr. Arriola said he would like to expand his business by buying a small graphics arts company. But while his competitors could do that by selling stock, "I got to pay with cash and, for me, cash only comes from borrowing."
Leaders of some civil rights groups, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the National Urban League and the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, say the change will open the door to so-called front companies, in which minority executives have prominent positions but the companies are really owned and controlled by whites.
"For as long as there has been black enterprise, when you said black ownership that has always meant 51 percent," said Earl G. Graves Sr., publisher of Black Enterprise Magazine, who has led the opposition to the proposal. "If you have 51 percent, you have control; less than 51 percent, it is not control, you have an ownership stake."
Opponents worry that any increase in front companies would discredit the concept of special breaks for minority companies at a time when affirmative action programs are under assault. They are also concerned that a change by the council might prompt the Government to re-examine its definition of what constitutes a small "disadvantaged" company -- currently 51 percent ownership by minorities or some whites -- that are given breaks in bidding for Government contracts.
Proponents of the change say they understand the concerns of civil rights leaders given the setbacks in the courts and the passage of ballot initiatives like Proposition 209 in California, which outlawed government programs that extend "preferences" based on race and sex in employment, college admissions and contracting. But they say the proposal has a number of safeguards built in.
For example, companies must already be 51 percent owned by minorities and have a stock deal with a venture capitalist worked out before they can apply for a waiver of the 51 percent rule. The council will also examine the future makeup of the board, the issue of who holds voting stock as opposed to common stock, and who will be in charge day to day.
The change is being pushed by several large corporations, particularly the Big Three auto makers. In recent years, General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler have been consolidating their supply operations, buying more from larger and larger suppliers and scaling back contracts with small suppliers. In the process, the car companies and several minority suppliers say that unless minority suppliers grow, they will soon be shut out of the industry. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (54%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL NATIONAL MINORITY SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (54%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SMALL BUSINESS MINORITY BUSINESSES (97%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



275 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Railroad May Enter Telecommunications

BYLINE: Bloomberg 

DATELINE: NORFOLK, Va., Oct. 11

 BODY:
The Norfolk Southern Corporation, the fourth-largest United States railroad, is forming a unit to lease its telecommunications system to phone, Internet and cable service providers and may eventually enter that business.
The railroad's new Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications Inc. unit is negotiating with long-distance and local telephone companies and cable providers to lease the rights of way along its 21,600 miles of railroad tracks for cables as well as its microwave network and other assets. 
 "We have one of the largest private telecommunications systems in the world already set up and running and doing a good job of serving our needs, with plenty of capacity to handle others," said Bob Fort, spokesman for the railroad, based in Norfolk, Va.
Cable-based Internet providers are expected to have 13.6 million subscribers by 2002, up from 700,000 last year, according to Forrester Research.
Norfolk Southern stock fell 31.25 cents, to $22.1875. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NSC (NYSE) (95%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (95%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (95%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (95%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (95%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (95%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NORFOLK, VA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP; THOROUGHBRED TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (95%); THOROUGHBRED TECHNOLOGY & TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP; THOROUGHBRED TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORFOLK, VA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION; RAILROADS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (94%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); INTERNET VIDEO (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (72%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



276 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Study Finds Lack of Control In U.N. Food Aid to North Korea

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 11

 BODY:
A report prepared for Congress by the General Accounting Office in Washington has found that the United Nations World Food Program is not able to monitor adequately what happens to food aid donated by the United States to North Korea.
"U.S. policy is that no food aid will be provided to North Korea if it cannot be adequately monitored," the report, to the House Committee on International Relations, said. The report, issued last week, contends that the World Food Program itself estimates that 90 percent of North Korean institutions that receive food aid, including hospitals, orphanages and schools, have not been visited and says its own monitors had "rarely been allowed to observe the actual distribution of food to beneficiaries." 
 A renewed debate over whether food donations, most of which are from the United States, are siphoned off by officials or the military in the world's most isolated and totalitarian nation occurs as Congress begins hearings on the Clinton Administration policy of easing some sanctions against North Korea in the hopes of deterring its nuclear and missile programs. The policy has met strong Republican criticism.
Malnutrition and starvation have been a cause for concern in North Korea for more than five years, as the effects of the country's complete economic collapse have been worsened by floods and other disasters. Experts disagree on the death toll from the years of famine, but estimates range from 500,000 to two million or more. North Korea has 24 million people, and most famine victims were the youngest and oldest citizens, international experts say.
A spokesman for the World Food Program, Trevor Rowe, said in an interview from Washington that "for us, there is nothing new in this report." He said there had always been questions about access to North Korean people and institutions. The G.A.O. team was itself denied visas.
Mr. Rowe said access for his program had in fact expanded considerably in North Korea in recent years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FAMINE; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOOD FOOD CHARITIES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FAMINE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MALNUTRITION (78%); STARVATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



277 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Humanitarian Aid in Serbia

 BODY:
European foreign ministers yesterday approved the shipment of heating oil to two cities in Serbia controlled by the opposition to Slobodan Milosevic. While the Clinton Administration is concerned that the fuel might indirectly help the Milosevic regime, the planned shipments actually do not go far enough. Heat is a basic humanitarian necessity during the cold Balkan winters, and should go to all Serbs who need it.
Since the war in Kosovo ended in June, Washington and European nations have struggled with how to provide humanitarian aid to Serbia without helping to prop up Mr. Milosevic. The West's obligations are particularly hard to sort out because Serbia's infrastructure and economy have been crippled not only by NATO bombing, but by years of Mr. Milosevic's ruinous policies. 
 The Clinton Administration is concerned that European nations will seek to provide aid on such a broad scale that it could end up benefiting the Serbian regime. The fear is legitimate, as many nations in Europe have been relaxed about aid and trade with Mr. Milosevic. Washington is right to oppose anything beyond humanitarian aid until Mr. Milosevic is out of power. There should be no restoration of air links to Belgrade, shipments of gasoline or help to rebuild bridges and buildings.
The European Union has approved a very limited plan -- a small shipment of heating oil to two cities, Nis and Pirot, with opposition governments. If it is properly used -- not hijacked by the central Government or sold by corrupt officials -- the E.U. would then begin sending fuel oil and perhaps other forms of humanitarian aid to opposition-controlled areas elsewhere in Serbia.
Help for Nis and Pirot could, in fact, damage Mr. Milosevic because it would send a message to Serbs that the opposition can deliver a higher standard of living than their leader can. Such aid will also help people realize that sanctions are targeting Mr. Milosevic, not ordinary Serbs. But if the aid program expands beyond humanitarian goals to anything not necessary for saving lives, the aid must be sent only to the opposition areas and in well-designed programs, or wait until Serbia is a democratic nation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; EDITORIALS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (65%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



278 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Princeton Considers Abolishing the A-Plus

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., Oct. 11

 BODY:
Princeton University officials want to do away with the A-plus grade, saying they are concerned that high marks have become commonplace.
A faculty committee has proposed that A-plus be replaced by a grade called "A with distinction," for truly outstanding work. 
 The "A with distinction" would be worth 4.0 grade points, the same as an A, instead of the 4.3 points that an A-plus is worth. In addition, faculty members would have to file written explanations with each "A with distinction" they give.
One idea is to assign a different symbol to the A, like an asterisk.
"The problem we've got with A-pluses is that there's too many of them to suggest that the students getting them are really doing exceptional work," said Justin Harmon, a university spokesman. "And they're not evenly distributed across the subjects. It's easier to get an A-plus in science and engineering than it is in the humanities. We want a common standard, and we want it to mean something."
The grade recommendation, which awaits a decision by the university's faculty members, was suggested last week by an eight-member faculty committee that was asked to come up with possible solutions to the problem of grade inflation, in which too many students get A's and B's.
If approved, the change would take effect for the 4,500 undergraduates in the 2000-2001 academic year.
The committee was formed in 1998 after a study of grading patterns from 1973 to 1997 showed a trend toward a growing number of A's and B's and fewer C's and D's.
Though the College Board scores of incoming Princeton freshmen are on the rise, the study said the grade inflation was due more to lenient professors and students who badger them for higher marks.
But some students say they worry that the change, while well-intended, could make them look bad to graduate schools or potential employers by reducing their grade point averages.
"I'm not sure if it will accomplish all they say," said Robbie Adler, 20, of Scottsdale, Ariz., a junior electrical engineering major.
Students are being asked for their opinions on the proposal, but ultimately the decision will be the faculty's, Mr. Harmon said.
Princeton officials said several prestigious universities do not use A-plus, including Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard and Yale. But Columbia, Cornell, Stanford and the University of Pennsylvania use A-plus.
In a report on the Princeton proposal, the dean of the college, Nancy Weiss Malkiel, said: "Such a change would preserve the capacity of the faculty to recognize truly outstanding work, while not disadvantaging students in the contest for academic honors, awards and prizes which depend significantly on grade point averages."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (66%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); GRADE INFLATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); TRENDS (70%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); 

PERSON: JUSTIN HARMON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



279 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Giant Banks Will Face New Regulations

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told bankers today that regulators were considering ways to deal with the huge banks being formed by mergers and the possible harm to the economy should the institutions fail.
Mr. Greenspan said "significant changes are in the pipeline" in banking supervision by domestic and foreign regulators. 
 The changes point to a "multitrack approach" to oversight of banks, since the institutions vary significantly in size, business strategy and penchant for risk, he said.
"Even among the largest banks, no two institutions have exactly the same risk profiles, risk controls or organizational and management structure," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech to the American Bankers Association's annual convention, held this year in Phoenix. Copies of his speech to the association, the banking industry's biggest trade group, were released in Washington.
Because banks vary so widely, he said, Government oversight needs to be "customized for each financial institution: the more complex an institution's business activities, the more sophisticated must be our approach to prudential oversight."
Mr. Greenspan said that such flexibility is especially needed in the case of "megabanks" resulting from mergers that, he said, "create the potential for unusually large systemic risks in the national and international economy should they fail."
Regulators like the Fed must walk a line between exercising adequate oversight of big banks and regulating them excessively in a way that smothers innovation and competition, he suggested.
"Such a heavier hand would also blunt the ability of U.S. banks to respond to crisis events," Mr. Greenspan said. "Increased government regulation is inconsistent with a banking system that can respond to the kinds of changes that have characterized recent years."
An outline of the changes being considered by United States and foreign regulators was released for public comment in June by an international group of bank supervisors based in Basel, Switzerland.
But Jim McLaughlin, director of regulatory affairs for the bankers' group, said that Mr. Greenspan's speech put the issue in clearer perspective.
Mr. McLaughlin also said that American bankers support Mr. Greenspan's push to have Federal regulators consult with the industry on developing new standards for banks to disclose details of their assets.
Big bank mergers have been occurring at a rapid pace, with recent multibillion-dollar consolidations including the combination of Citicorp and Travelers Group; NationsBank with BankAmerica, and Banc One with First Chicago.
Critics, including consumer advocates like Ralph Nader and some lawmakers, have said that the mergers have raised the likelihood of future taxpayer bailouts for big financial institutions that fail.
Beyond responding to the rise of huge banks, Mr. Greenspan said, "few changes" are needed to the current system of regulation for the vast majority of banks. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (73%); BAC (LSE) (73%); 8648 (TSE) (73%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN BANK OF AMERICA CORP (73%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MERGERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); RALPH NADER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



280 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Russian Court Ruling Is New Blow to Foreign Investment

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Russia's shaky foreign-investment reputation weakened further today when a court in St. Petersburg ruled that the 255-year-old Lomonosov porcelain factory be renationalized, annulling a majority stake held by executives of a prominent Wall Street buyout firm and an American-financed investment fund.
Alistair Stobie, vice president of the $440 million United States-Russia Investment Fund, said it planned to appeal the ruling that voided the ownership interests of his organization and those of executives in Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company. 
 The court's decision on a case brought by the Russian Ministry of State Property against the porcelain factory is the latest in a series of disputes over the last year that have eroded foreigners' investments in Russian companies.
The Dart Group, for example, is struggling to prevent a share issue by the Russian oil conglomerate Yukos that would dilute Dart's stake in a Yukos subsidiary. BP Amoco P.L.C. is trying to save a half-billion-dollar investment in a Russian oil company, Sidanko, which is now bankrupt.
These and other smaller deals gone awry have supported the widely held view abroad that Russia's market is a volatile one unworthy of significant investment because most major Russian companies, and perhaps even the Government itself, flout shareholder rights. "We work with start-ups who understand the importance of sound corporate governance," Mr. Stobie said. "But 90 percent of the factories that existed under the Soviets still don't understand it. They think an equity investment is a no-interest loan."
The fund was capitalized by Congress in the early 1990's to encourage direct investment in the Russian economy, and so far, it has invested about $240 million. The fund has spent about $4.25 million since September 1998 to buy slightly more than 25 percent of the Lomonosov plant.
The Kohlberg Kravis executives, through a holding company called the International Porcelain Company, invested about $4 million of their money and acquired a similar holding. The rest of Lomonosov is owned by current and retired employees and by two offshore companies.
The factory, Russia's oldest and most famous porcelain works, was purveyor to the imperial court and, in modern times, the maker of china praising the achievements of the Soviet state. During its heyday, Lomonosov was regarded highly enough that museums all over the world carried its porcelain sets. "We invested because of the brand name," Mr. Stobie said. "There are very few high-quality porcelain brands in the world, and this is one of them."
Under the Soviets, however, and recent ragged years of reform, the quality of Lomonosov china had steadily declined, Mr. Stobie said, and the factory today is unprofitable. The investment fund had planned to invest in new equipment, he said, to improve the quality of the porcelain being turned out.
But since their initial investment late in 1998, the fund and the International Porcelain Company have had severely limited access to the plant and its books, mainly, they say, because of a hostile management that like many from the Soviet era views outsiders as a threat.
Then, in June, the Ministry of State Property filed suit against the Lomonosov plant to annul the privatization, based on what it called an error in the factory's original incorporation in 1993. Fund officials have said they suspect the suit was initiated at the request of Lomonosov management to fend off the foreign investors. Officials at Lomonosov and the property ministry could not be reached for comment tonight.
According to Mr. Stobie, the three judges hearing the case deliberated for 15 minutes before repealing the privatization. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (83%); BP (NYSE) (69%); BP (LSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: LOMONOSOV (RUSSIAN CO); KOHLBERG KRAVIS ROBERTS & CO; UNITED STATES-RUSSIA INVESTMENT FUND KKR & CO LP (83%); BP PLC (69%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOMONOSOV (RUSSIAN CO); KOHLBERG KRAVIS ROBERTS & CO; UNITED STATES-RUSSIA INVESTMENT FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (89%); VERDICTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); APPEALS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA ALISTAIR STOBIE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



281 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Cuts in Commissions Sting Travel Agents

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Three more airlines cut travel agent commissions to 5 percent from 8 percent yesterday, making the latest reduction in commissions all but a fait accompli for most of the industry.
The cuts by Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, following the lead last week of United Airlines and American Airlines, left agents shaken. "It's going to be devastating for lots and lots of travel agencies," said Mary Berry Murphy, the owner of Berry World Travel in Omaha, echoing a widespread concern among agents. 
 The airlines' success with electronic ticketing and Internet booking capability has periodically emboldened them to reduce commissions, but most travel agents have demonstrated surprisingly strong survival skills. For one thing, 49 percent of travel agencies now have World Wide Web sites of their own, compared with 37 percent last year, according to the American Society of Travel Agents, and 76 percent of the trade group's members have access to rates on the Internet, up from 61 percent a year ago.
"Clearly, these figures show that travel agents are using the Internet to get the best deals for their clients," said James Ashurst, a spokesman for the trade group.
Studies also suggest that many people who surf the Internet for deals then turn to travel agents to make the bookings. For example, a study this summer by NPD Online Research, which tracks consumer purchasing and behavior, found that while more individuals are booking travel on line, "56 percent of on-line travelers reported having completed travel reservations with a traditional travel agent after visiting a travel-related Web site."
The reason, NPD found, was "the need for human contact and assurances that reservations are correct."
Thus, Joe Galloway, the society's president, said, "Despite the doomsday forecasts by many industry 'experts,' the Internet is not carving away at travel agency profitability -- in fact, the exact opposite is occurring."
Still, it is likely that some of the almost 1,800 retail travel locations that went out of business in the first seven months of this year did so at least in part because of the drop in revenue from lower commissions.
In addition to lowering the rate, United, a unit of the UAL Corporation; American, owned by the AMR Corporation; Delta; Northwest and KLM -- like most of the industry -- have a $50 maximum commission on round-trip domestic tickets and $100 on round-trip international tickets.
"We recently wrote a $3,000 ticket for a corporate client who likes to travel first class," said Joy Wittmann, the owner of the Joy In Travel agency in Metairie, La. "A few years ago we would have made at least $300 on that ticket. Now it's $100."
Consequently, travel agents have turned to other sources of income -- in particular cruises, which, with commissions averaging about 15 percent, are the second-biggest source of agent revenue and the fastest growing.
In addition, many travel agencies now charge fees averaging $10 to $15 for writing or rewriting tickets, booking hotels or rental cars and processing refunds. Already 75 percent of agencies charge fees, compared with 64 percent in 1998.
Mrs. Murphy's agency, for example, charges $10 fees and has managed to reduce its reliance on the sale of airline tickets from 90 percent of the business to about 55 percent. To pick up the slack, she sells more cruises and tours.
Even with fees, a recent survey of 450 travel agencies found that 90 percent of agencies that charge them say they have retained at least 81 percent of their clients; three-quarters say they hung on to at least 91 percent.
Still, many travel agents say that the combination of commission cuts and direct on-line bookings have cut into their revenue and profits -- and would have cut even deeper if the strong economy of the last nine years had not emboldened people to keep traveling.
Mrs. Murphy said she had been aided by participating with about 375 other Midwestern travel agencies in a consortium. The group's collective strength helps independent agencies receive favorable rates on business items like computer rentals and marketing programs.
The airlines hope to reduce their costs by cutting commissions. United, for example, said that its commission cut is expected to save about $150 million a year.
American and Delta are not saying how much they expect to save. Indeed, the releases announcing the cuts said that the carriers would not offer any public comment about them. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (84%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES NV; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); AMR CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (56%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES NV; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (56%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AGENCIES AND AGENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TRAVEL AGENTS (94%); AIRLINES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMMISSION PAY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); WEB SITES (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MARY BERRY MURPHY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



282 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Hudson Towns Wary of Rail's Reach;
Commuter Line Extension Faces Hostility in Bucolic North Dutchess

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS 

DATELINE: TIVOLI, N.Y.

 BODY:
With its luminous views of the Hudson River and the Catskill Mountains beyond, the terrain surrounding this Dutchess County hamlet helped inspire the Hudson River School of painting, which for more than a century helped define the American wilderness.
Now a proposed extension of the Metro-North Railroad's Hudson commuter line is leading people here and in nearby towns to define something else: how much they value the virtues of isolation and repose and how much they want the economic benefits that would come from better access to New York City, 100 miles downstream. 
 Since last year, Metro-North has been exploring the feasibility of extending service from its current northern terminus at Poughkeepsie to a station near the border of Dutchess and Columbia Counties.
The preliminary proposal includes constructing three new platforms and parking areas, and possibly a rail yard and remote commuter parking lots. Such an expansion would extend commuter service 25 miles north, linking Tivoli, Staatsburg and Hyde Park to Grand Central Terminal. It would also provide Metro-North service to Rhinecliff, several miles south of Tivoli, which is now served by Amtrak trains that go to Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan.
The proposal has been met with intense official resistance. Even as the railroad examines its options, public officials are warning of an unwise trade: convenience to Manhattan in exchange for new residents, developers and, eventually, the intrusion of suburbia and sprawl.
"Bringing Metro-North in here would probably make the real estate market go through the roof," said Thomas L. Cordier, Tivoli's deputy mayor. "But it would throw the quality of life out the window."
Energized by these and similar concerns, seven Dutchess County communities have passed resolutions since August opposing expansion of Metro-North's commuter lines, or even the railroad's study of the issue. The communities are the towns of Rhinebeck, Red Hook, Milan, Stanford and Clinton, as well as the villages of Rhinebeck and Tivoli. Officials say they are merely formally stating the overwhelming sentiment of their constituents.
Opposition is not unanimous, however, and measured support comes from potential foes. In Hyde Park, a town with more traffic lights and strip malls than its neighbors to the north, local attitude "has been more of a wait-and-see mode," said Town Supervisor Thomas M. Spence. "I personally am very interested in what the M.T.A. study shows."
But resistance is easy to find in Tivoli, population 1,024. This river hamlet is not quite the wilderness outpost it was in the 19th century, when the painters Thomas Cole and Frederic E. Church captured the valley's forest-draped slopes and airy vistas with oil and canvas. But modern times have treated the area gently, and Tivoli still sits in a region of solitude and soft light. Tourists find only one stop sign on Broadway, its main street, and no gas station or franchise stores. The idea of commuter service has villagers alarmed.
"I'm totally against it," said Marilyn Rivera, who moved to Tivoli from Inwood, in upper Manhattan, in June. Ms. Rivera, a social worker, commutes to the East Village, usually by bus from Kingston, at least once each week. While a railroad extension would simplify her trips, she fears it would also bring in rush-hour traffic and noise. "One of the reasons we moved here is that it is a quiet little town," she said.
Ms. Rivera's husband, Leslie D. Gabriel, took care to emphasize that local opposition was not an upstate-downstate tiff. "This is not an anti-New York City frame of mind," he said. "I love New York. I lived there most of my life.
"But if you start bringing in all of this transportation infrastructure, you're going to have everything in the Hudson Valley looking like one huge strip mall. You go down that slippery slope of ruining an awesome piece of planet."
As Mr. Gabriel points out, Tivoli and the communities that extend south to Poughkeepsie are in a geographic belt where it is difficult to commute either to Albany, which is 45 miles north of Tivoli and on the other side of the Hudson River, or to Manhattan. A common feeling is that this isolation is a fortunate circumstance, because the local way of life is fine as it is.
"It's not an easy commute by any means, and maybe that's been our saving grace," said Gary DiMauro, who owns a real estate firm in Tivoli. "If we eliminate that, we eliminate the very thing that is attractive about this area."
The trip from Grand Central to Poughkeepsie is 74 miles by train, and takes roughly an hour and 45 minutes on Metro-North. The peak fare costs $26 round-trip. Commuters also have the option of riding round-trip on Amtrak between Penn Station and Rhinecliff, for $46, on trains whose cars have reclining seats, snacks and electrical outlets for laptop computers. Most of the Dutchess communities' resolutions say that their residents are satisfied with just Amtrak service.
But Metro-North says its study, which will cost $3 million, is necessary because the northern section of its Hudson Line is the fastest growing on the railroad, with ridership having climbed from 1.37 million fares in 1984 to 3.6 million fares projected this year. Moreover, Dutchess County's population is projected to climb to 314,000 in 2020, from 259,000 in 1990, a 21 percent increase.
The railroad expects to issue a report next year on the ways existing track -- owned by Amtrak -- that passes through Hyde Park and Staatsburg might be put to wider use. Still, it insists it has no firm plans, and has not decided precisely where to put any new stations. "The main thing to know is that it's a study -- it's only a study," said Marjorie Anders, a Metro-North spokeswoman.
Ms. Anders said that any recommendations that Metro-North makes must be approved by the Poughkeepsie-Dutchess County Transportation Council, a regional transit planning agency, and then by the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The project would also require state and Federal money, and the M.T.A.'s proposed five-year capital budget, released in late September, showed no money for the project through 2004.
Given these facts, the degree and scope of the official resistance is striking. In Red Hook, Town Manager John J. Gilfeather said Metro-North was caught off guard by "the negativism they got."
In Rhinebeck, Town Supervisor William W. Dowden voiced long-range concerns. "If you go back and do the reading, Yonkers used to be the outskirts of the metropolitan area, then Tarrytown, Ossining, Croton-on-Hudson, and on up," Mr. Dowden said. "Now they all blend together. In 20 or 25 years, it may not be impossible to see sprawl all the way to Rhinebeck."
Although this feeling is widespread, some see the transportation authority's study as a useful planning tool. For instance, Scenic Hudson Inc., a nonprofit environmental organization based in Poughkeepsie, has withheld judgment. "We think good transit also means good land-use policies, and a recognition that not all transit projects are appropriate," Deborah Meyer DeWan, a director of the organization, said. "Having said that, we welcome a study that will really evaluate the possibilities for transportation alternatives, but in the context of managing future growth."
And some residents' opinions are clearly at odds with those of their elected officials. Benjamin T. Deford, a musician, said he would welcome local growth and the access to Manhattan that a rail extension would provide.
"A lot of my friends and I would like to commercialize the place to where we could make a real living, and not have to live in the dog-eat-dog of the city," he said.
The dueling sentiments were played out in a good-natured argument between Laura D. Ciancanelli, a painter, and Michael Gonnella, a baker. Sitting in the Santa Fe Mexican restaurant, Ms. Ciancanelli spoke of the destruction of the area's quiet character she feels a rail expansion would mean. Mr. Gonnella merely chuckled. "More people who come and eat and spend money in the restaurants and bars? More people who keep the town alive?" he said. "That's a terrible thing."
Then he grew serious. "A train is a conveyor belt that carries people with disposable income to this town," he said. "Who can be against that?"
Down Broadway, in the village offices, Deputy Mayor Cordier's opinion was firm. He said he would rather use the public money and energy that would go into extending rail service to instead revive Tivoli's waterfront with a park and pier, a project with an eye to the old days, when the town was served by a ferry that plied the Hudson, and the river's platinum light inspired painters to romanticize the entire valley.
"It's a decision the community has to make," Mr. Cordier said. "But I think we've spoken -- loud and clear."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Storm King of the Hudson," circa 1826, by Thomas Cole, a painter inspired by views from Dutchess County. (Courtesy Ball State University Museum of Art); Marilyn Rivera, who moved to Tivoli in June, and her husband, Leslie D. Gabriel, oppose the commuter plan. The village of Tivoli looking south, with Amtrak railroad tracks along the east bank of the Hudson. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1); William W. Dowden, Rhinebeck's supervisor, at the town landing in Rhinecliff. His town has opposed a rail extension. "In 20 or 25 years, it may not be impossible to see sprawl all the way to Rhinebeck," he said. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map showing possible Hudson Line extension: A proposal would extend the commuter link with Grand Central Terminal by 25 miles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%); BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); BALL STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIVOLI (NY); DUTCHESS COUNTY (NY); HUDSON RIVER; RHINEBECK (NY); RED HOOK (DUTCHESS COUNTY, NY); MILAN (NY); STANFORD (NY); CLINTON (DUTCHESS COUNTY, NY); POUGHKEEPSIE (NY); STAATSBURG (NY); HYDE PARK (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC) URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TRAINS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MAYORS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (72%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (65%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHIVERS, C J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



283 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: CALIFORNIA TO SET LEVEL OF STAFFING FOR NURSING CARE

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 11

 BODY:
Over the objections of the state's health care industry, Gov. Gray Davis has signed a bill that will make California the first state to require hospitals to meet fixed nurse-to-patient ratios, in an effort to force higher quality care and combat cost-cutting measures in the place where managed care was born.
Mr. Davis signed the new law, backed by the state nurses' union, over the weekend as part of a last batch of bills from this year's legislative session. The session also produced a package of measures that the Democratic Governor signed last month, expanding patients' access to mental health care and their rights to sue their health insurers for punitive damages and seek outside reviews of decisions denying coverage. 
 Heath care has been a major political issue in California, given the prominence of health maintenance organizations and for-profit hospitals here. And the hospital industry and business groups had lobbied hard against the nurses staffing bill. Mr. Davis's Republican predecessor, former Gov. Pete Wilson, vetoed a similar measure two years ago.
At times this year, Mr. Davis himself has complained that the Legislature was sending him too many bills on health care, and he has generally taken a cautious approach to this and other issues since his election last year. Even as he signed the nurses staffing bill, he vetoed another measure intended to overhaul the state's nursing home system, saying it was too costly.
The new bill on nurse staffing levels -- which covers all "licensed nurses," including both registered and licensed practical nurses -- does not specify minimum nurse-to-patient ratios, but instead requires the State Department of Health Services to set such standards for general, psychiatric and special hospitals. To secure Mr. Davis's support, the measure's sponsor, Assemblywoman Sheila James Kuehl, Democrat of Santa Monica, agreed to sponsor a follow-up bill next year, delaying the implementation by at least a year, until 2002, to allow the state time to work out the desired ratios.
Nurse staffing has been a hot-button issue among health care consumers nationwide in recent years as hospitals have sought to save money by laying off registered nurses and consolidating a range of typical nursing functions in the hands of less-qualified aides. Ms. Kuehl first sponsored the bill at the urging of the nurses' union two years ago, and it passed the Legislature but was vetoed.
"This is one of the most significant days in the history of nursing," Kay McVay, the president of the California Nurses Association, said after Mr. Davis signed the bill.
The measure will also bar hospitals from assigning unlicensed workers to perform certain medical procedures, including administering drugs and assessing a patient's condition, and it will prohibit hospitals from shifting nurses trained in one unit to duty in another without adequate preparation.
The state's health care industry had opposed the measure on the grounds that it would impose overly specific requirements on hospitals and increase costs.
"Hospitals are being put under tremendous pressure to lower costs by the managed care companies, which are under pressure from the government and employers, and ultimately, the public," said Walter Zelman, president of the California Association of Health Plans, which represents H.M.O.'s statewide. "If they can avoid it, they would prefer not to have the government mandate a certain rigid standard. Not that the government is always wrong, but rigidity is rigidity. It's easier for the industry to function if it has to meet outcome goals, rather than specific means of achieving them."
But Rose Ann DeMaro, executive director of the California Nurses Association, which represents 200,000 nurses, said the new rules were necessary to address severe gaps in care resulting from cutbacks in nursing staffs and the fact that hospital patients in general are sicker than in the past, because H.M.O.'s resist putting patients in the hospital if they can avoid it, to save money.
A new research report commissioned by the nurses' union, analyzing 18.2 million patient discharge records and other data from 1994 through 1997, found a nearly 9 percent increase in the average number of patients for which each full-time registered nurse was responsible. The ratio rose from one nurse for every 56.87 patients to one for every 62.33. At the same time, patient acuity levels, which measure the severity of illness of patients at the point of discharge from the hospital, increased by more than 3 percent for the categories of "major acuity" and "extreme acuity."
"There has been significant downsizing in the nursing staff of virtually every private hospital in the state," Ms. Kuehl said. "And because of managed care, patients are much more seriously ill before they're even checked in. The dreadful result of the intersection of these two things is that nurses were caring for more and sicker patients."
California regulations require hospitals to assess the illness of patients for every shift, on every floor in every hospital, and then set nurse staffing levels accordingly, Ms. Kuehl said. But she said that made it effectively impossible for the state to enforce any uniform standard.
Allan Zaremberg, president of the California Chamber of Commerce, said it had opposed the bill "because we thought it would add to health care costs and be costly to the overall economy." But he expressed relief that Mr. Davis had gone out of his way to find a flexible approach that would not unduly increase costs or require nurses to perform tasks that could be done by others. He also expressed satisfaction that the bill was the only one among those that the chamber had most opposed that Mr. Davis had not vetoed.
By contrast, consumer groups and the American Association of Retired Persons expressed dismay that Mr. Davis vetoed the nursing home measure, which would have gradually increased the training, number and pay of certified nurse assistants, and doubled fines for violating state nursing home law to a maximum of $50,000 for a patient's death.
In his veto message, Mr. Davis said the bill contained "many well-intentioned, commendable features," but placed too great a burden on the state budget, with a five-year cost of more than $500 million. He noted that he had already supported including $72 million in the budget passed this summer to increase the minimum nursing home staff-to-patient ratio and provide a wage increase to patient-care staff.
"Let's let that happen first," said the Governor's press secretary, Michael Bustamante. "Let's let those positions be filled and then let's take a look at what's going on. This bill would have cost taxpayers a half a billion dollars. And the Governor has made clear throughout this entire year that he is hard-pressed to spend money today that we may not have tomorrow." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NURSING AND NURSES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; STATES (US); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE NURSES & NURSING (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); VETO (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); DAMAGES (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); INSURANCE (69%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (54%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) PETE BARTON WILSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



284 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Highflying Generic Drug Stocks Now SharplyLower

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
A year ago, the chief executives of the nation's largest generic drug makers seemed almost giddy.
Generic versions of popular drugs were coming to market with ease, and investors clamored for shares of the tiny companies. The stocks of two prominent ones, Watson Pharmaceuticals, best known for its estrogen-replacement therapies, and Forest Laboratories, a maker of the antidepressant Celexa, each roughly doubled in value in 1998. 
 But the group has had a rapid descent recently. A raft of legal troubles from lawsuits to inquiries by the Federal Government have scared away investors, while the number of drug introductions has stalled.
Though the Standard & Poor's Drug index has slipped 6 percent this year, the stocks of the generic companies have in some cases lost a third or half of their value.
The chief executives are hard pressed to explain the sudden reversals of fortunes. "Not a lot of drugs have come off patent this year," said Fred Wilkinson, chief operating officer of Watson Pharmaceuticals. "Everybody is just hunkering down. But within the next two years, more drugs will come off patent. That may change the business cycle."
William A. Fletcher, chief executive of Teva Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., one of the largest makers of generic drugs, said, "Everybody is suffering from a lot of lawsuits."
After Mylan Laboratories struck exclusive deals last year with suppliers of raw materials necessary to make two anti-anxiety drugs, the Federal Trade Commission accused the company of trying to monopolize the market. The company asked a Federal court to dismiss the case but got nowhere. Analysts now worry that Mylan's mounting legal bills could dent the company's earnings.
Other generic makers face some serious court challenges over the deals they have made with the drug giants. At issue is the practice of accepting a payment from a branded drug company to delay the introduction of a competing generic or to avoid patent litigation.
People with knowledge of its investigations say the F.T.C. is considering filing a complaint against Hoechst Marion Roussel and the Andrx Corporation, a maker of specialty pharmaceuticals and generic drugs, over a deal they made to delay a generic version of Hoechst's Cardizem CD, a treatment for high blood pressure, from entering the market.
The commission is investigating similar agreements between Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, part of the giant Astra-Zeneca global drug concern, and Barr Laboratories, a generic company, over the breast cancer drug tamoxifen, and between Eli Lilly & Company and Sepracor, a specialty pharmaceuticals company, to develop an improved version of Prozac, according to people close to the investigation.
"Certainly, Mylan's case with the F.T.C. has put the company's shares under pressure," said David Saks, a managing director of Gruntal & Company. "But I don't think the F.T.C. investigations will change anything. This may be more for a warning."
Shares of Mylan Pharmaceuticals are off 41 percent this year, closing yesterday at $18.50. For the quarter ended in June, Mylan's earnings fell 6 percent from a year earlier, and analysts have forecast a slide of more than 6 percent in the next quarterly report.
Since the F.T.C.'s investigation of Andrx was disclosed late last month, the company's stock has tumbled 23 percent, to $46.0625, well off its $78 high in June. Even the stock of Watson Pharmaceuticals, which has not been reported to be the subject of an F.T.C. investigation, fell 54 percent this year, to $28.9375.
Litigation has long been a cornerstone of the generic industry. To get a generic drug to market, companies must sometimes fend off a patent infringement suit.
Such courtroom quarrels sometimes amount to David vs. Goliath battles. Andrx has been sued by Glaxo Wellcome and Hoechst, among others. Andrx had $8 million in earnings last year; Glaxo, $1.8 billion.
Mr. Fletcher and Mr. Wilkinson complained in recent interviews that their annual legal expenses had swelled to about $4 million each. For Watson, that amounts to a 200 percent increase from two years ago.
With litigation fears depressing the stocks, some stock pickers now consider them undervalued. Analysts expect Andrx earnings, for example, to jump 221 percent from the period a year earlier, to 45 cents a share in the third quarter.
At the least, generic drug companies point to a better pipeline of new products. Drugs worth some $13 billion in sales over the next three years are coming off patent in that period. Last year, drugs with just $1.4 billion in sales came off patent, virtually the same as is expected this year, according to Gruntal & Company. The generic drug companies will record a combined $9 billion in sales this year, up 9 percent from last year, by Gruntal's estimates.
Some expect the F.T.C. investigation to eliminate exclusivity deals and ultimately open the market wider for more generics. Even if it does, it will crimp some companies' revenues along the way.
Andrx, for example, was to receive $100 million a year from Hoechst to keep its generic version of Cardizem CD off the market. The deal was scrapped in June, but only after Andrx had earned most of that amount, when the companies settled their patent dispute.
A wider open market could put more pressure on the generic companies to continue merging in hopes of better economies of scale.
"When it comes to drug volume, the generic makers are going to do quite well," said Sergio Traversa, a pharmaceutical analyst at Mehta Partners. "But there is so much competition within the generic industry, that it is always going to be difficult to make money." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACT (NYSE) (85%); LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); AZN (STO) (58%); AZN (NYSE) (58%); AZN (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ACTAVIS INC (85%); ANDRX CORP (84%); ELI LILLY & CO (84%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (60%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (60%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (58%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA INC (55%); ZENECA PHARMACEUTICALS (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; FINANCES GENERIC DRUGS (94%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (78%); CANCER (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); PATENT LAW (75%); PATENTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BREAST CANCER (63%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J JOSEPH C PAPA (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



285 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Officials Accuse Port Authority of Skirting Law

 BODY:
Elected officials in New Jersey yesterday denounced a land deal between the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Continental Airlines as an attempt to circumvent local authority to redevelop an industrial area in Elizabeth.
The deal calls for creation of a 2,000-space parking lot for Continental employees on 177 acres next to the Jersey Gardens Mall and a proposed office complex in a redevelopment area that was once the site of a landfill, said Michael J. Lapolla, the Union County Manager. 
 Continental bought the land recently for $17 million from the Allied Signal Corporation, and will lease it to the Port Authority, making it exempt from local development oversight.
Mr. Lapolla said a vast parking lot would conflict with plans to remake the area as a retail and office center.
"This is just such a bad use for the site," he said.
The elected officials are angered by what they say is an attempt by the powerful bistate agency and the big airline to skirt state law that allows municipalities to impose wide-ranging redevelopment plans on blighted areas. Under the law, Mr. Lapolla said, mayors have the authority to designate developers of sites within redevelopment areas on the basis of their proposals and to condemn private property if necessary to insure the preferred plan is carried out.
As private property, the site would ordinarily be subject to condemnation by the Mayor of Elizabeth, J. Christian Bollwage, if Continental refused to develop it as the city would like.
But property owned or leased by the Port Authority is exempt from such condemnation, and Mr. Lapolla said the five-year deal in which the Port Authority would lease the property from Continental and operate it as a parking lot for the airline's employees was intended to circumvent the law. The agency also has an option to buy the property.
"It's a sham deal," Mr. Lapolla said.
Mr. Lapolla also said the agency's executive director, Robert E. Boyle, had improperly entered into the lease this month without the Port Authority board's approval. The Union County Board of Freeholders yesterday called for Mr. Boyle's dismissal and said it would sue the agency.
Mayor Bollwage joined United States Representatives Robert Menendez and Donald Payne, who both represent parts of Elizabeth, in calling for a Federal audit of the deal. United States Senator Robert G. Torricelli sent a letter dated Oct. 8 to Mr. Boyle questioning the fairness of the situation. The State Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, wrote to Lewis M. Eisenberg, the Port Authority chairman, seeking a special board meeting "to reverse and rescind the action of the executive director."
A spokesman for the agency declined to talk about the deal other than to provide a statement that the agency believed that it was important to the economic development of the region. The agency later issued a statement, attributed to its general counsel, Hugh Welsch, asserting that Mr. Boyle had acted within his authority.
Michelle Treacy, a spokeswoman for Continental, declined to comment.
The dispute is the latest in a longstanding feud pairing the city of Elizabeth and Union County against the bistate agency, which owns large tracts of city land occupied by Newark Airport and the Elizabeth shipping terminal. However, the agency is exempt from standard property taxation, and Mr. Lapolla said Elizabeth received just $67,000 last year in payments in lieu of taxes on 2,000 acres of property. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); FMER (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); FIRSTMERIT CORP (71%); PORT AUTHORITY (95%); ELIZABETH&UNION COUNTY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES PORT AUTHORITY (95%); ELIZABETH&UNION COUNTY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ELIZABETH (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; JERSEY GARDENS MALL; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LANDFILLS (56%); 

PERSON: LAPOLLA, MICHAEL J BOB MENENDEZ (79%); DONALD M PAYNE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



286 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Montredon Journal;
French See a Hero in War on 'McDomination'

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: MONTREDON, France

 BODY:
At home here in his 500-year-old stone farmhouse, Jose Bove seems pretty relaxed for someone out on $17,000 bail.
He moves around in his slippers and turns off his cell phone so he can answer questions without being interrupted. His antique dining-room table is covered with stacks of paper, mostly faxes and printouts from Internet sites. Outside his windows, tucked among the trees, are the other five houses of this village and, beyond them, hundreds of Mr. Bove's sheep leisurely picking over the grass. 
 Since he was arrested in August on charges of vandalizing a nearby McDonald's restaurant under construction -- though his principal complaint is about American tariffs on luxury food -- this wiry, 46-year-old union leader and sheep farmer has become something of a national hero.
Hardly a day goes by that French newspapers fail to mention Mr. Bove, lauding him for his refusal to bow to globalization, publishing photographs of him with his hands clenched above his head and his wrists cuffed, and suggesting that he may be the only man left in France willing to go to jail for the republic.
He has been praised by France's highest officials, including President Jacques Chirac, who has declared that he, too, detests McDonald's food. Prime Minister Lionel Jospin has also weighed in, comparing Mr. Bove with other noted leaders who have emerged from grass-roots movements in recent years.
Mr. Bove, who lives in Larzac, an area of southwest France that is one of the country's best-known gastronomic regions, organized the destruction of the McDonald's in nearby Millau -- using tractors to tear down half the roof -- to highlight what he sees as the unfairness of the United States's decision to levy high tariffs on Roquefort cheese, pate de foie gras and other luxury imported food. Washington acted in retaliation for the European Union's decision to ban America's hormone-treated beef. He attacked McDonald's because it was a symbol of industrialized agriculture, "where quality doesn't matter anymore," he said.
"There have been three totalitarian forces in our lifetime," said Mr. Bove, who supplies sheep's milk to makers of Roquefort cheese. "The totalitarianism of fascism, of communism and now of capitalism. How can people try and tell us that we must import hormone-enhanced beef? What is that?"
Mr. Bove hardly looks militant. His eyes twinkle over his handlebar mustache when he is asked about all the attention he is getting. "There was some luck in it," he confides. "The judge threw me into jail. People didn't like that."
But some say Mr. Bove's crusade -- only the most conspicuous of a rash of protests against McDonald's -- has tapped into far larger issues gnawing at the French lately, including a general annoyance with the power of the American economy and a nostalgia for a way of life, including long lunches, that is disappearing yet still held in high regard. Every year, new McDonald's franchises open and flourish in France.
However, few people admit to indulging in those quarter-pounders. Spotted under the Golden Arches, the French "often behave as if they just got caught leaving an X-rated movie," said Jean-Pierre Poulain, a sociologist at the University of Toulouse recently quoted in the newspaper Le Monde.
Having recovered from Mr. Bove's attack, the Millau McDonald's was doing brisk business the other day. "I come here only once in a great while," said one customer, Laurent Jeniez, who was getting into his car alone. "I do it only with my children," he added, though none could be seen.
Yet Millau is awash in pro-Bove graffiti. "End McDomination" and "Free Bove" are scrawled on roadside signs, bus shelters and walls.
Mr. Bove himself favors a rhyming slogan that uses the French nickname for McDonald's: "McDo Dehors, Gardons le Roquefort!" (McDonald's Get Out, Let's Keep the Roquefort!). That is what he painted on the McDonald's construction site on Aug. 12. He considers his actions that day to be rather ordinary. This is, after all, a country where protesting is a national pastime. The development that really shocked Mr. Bove, who heads a farmers' union called the Confederation Paysanne, was being put in jail five days later.
"They never do that," he said. "But there was a young judge and they are independent and they just saw property damage."
Mr. Bove clinched his moment of fame when he initially refused to be freed on bail, even though his supporters had come up with the cash. It was a stand that lasted only three weeks. He smiles when asked about his change of heart. "The conditions in there were really bad," he said. "And the food was inedible. And I said to myself, 'If all these people are trying to help me by raising the money, why should I refuse to come out?' "
Mr. Bove said his actions had been announced in the local paper the day before. "There was nothing menacing about it," he said. "The children were there. There was singing. It had a festival atmosphere."
The owner of the McDonald's, Marc Dehani, sees it a bit differently. He says $120,000 worth of damage was done. But even though Mr. Bove awaits trial on state criminal charges, McDonald's has decided not to take any civil action against him, out of fear of turning him into a martyr. The restaurant chain has lately tried to calm protests by issuing statements pointing out that the franchises in France are owned by the French, employ French workers and almost exclusively sell food grown in France.
In the press, Mr. Bove is often described as the last holdout against creeping American imperialism. But he is eager to say that he likes Americans. His parents were researchers who spent years at the University of California at Berkeley studying diseases that attacked citrus trees. Mr. Bove lived there until he was 7 and still speaks English.
But his contempt for American eating habits is obvious. He offers statistics on the rate of obesity in America -- about three times that of the French -- and disdains Americans for eating all day long. He says America has no right to force its hormone-enhanced food down French throats.
Mr. Bove said he intended to travel to Seattle in November, when the World Trade Organization is expected to meet and consider the tariff issue again. The United States' decision to impose the tax was authorized by the W.T.O.
With four other farmers, Mr. Bove owns about 500 sheep. About half are raised to produce milk for Roquefort cheese. The rest are sold as meat.
Mr. Bove says he has never eaten at McDonald's, not even once. No, he insists, he is not curious. He does, however, like grilled hamburgers with sliced tomatoes and onions.
"And mayonnaise," he added. "But only the homemade kind."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The arrest of Jose Bove, a French farmer accused of vandalizing a McDonald's restaurant in Millau, has aroused Gallic gastronomic pride and led to other protests, like one at the McDonald's in Toulouse. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Jose Bove, a French farmer, sells milk from his sheep to makers of Roquefort cheese. He is angered by the United States' decision to impose a tariff on Roquefort and other luxury food imports. (Raphael Helle/Editing, for The New York Times)(pg. A4)
 
Map of France showing the location of Montredon: Montredon is in Larzac, a well-known gastronomic region. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (50%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOOD; VANDALISM VANDALISM (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CHEESE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (85%); BAIL (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RIOTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); SHEEP FARMING (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); BEEF (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CHEESE MFG (62%); 

PERSON: BOVE, JOSE JACQUES CHIRAC (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



287 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Too Much of a Good Thing? Doctor Challenges Drug Manual

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY 

 BODY:
When doctors need information about what dose of medicine to prescribe, they usually consult a fat navy blue book called the Physicians' Desk Reference -- P.D.R. for short -- which is an extensive compilation of data about drugs from their manufacturers.
But now a new report suggests that the doses recommended in the P.D.R. may be too high for many people and may cause adverse reactions, ranging from dizziness and nausea all the way to death. The report, published in a recent issue of the journal Postgraduate Medicine, said many drugs -- including Viagra, Prozac and some medicines used to treat high blood pressure, allergies, insomnia and high cholesterol -- might work just as well in smaller doses, with far less risk of bad reactions. 
 "Side effects drive a lot of people out of treatment that they need," said the author of the article, Dr. Jay S. Cohen, an associate professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Diego. People with chronic conditions like high blood pressure, headaches and depression often give up trying to treat their illnesses, he said, when they find that the cure is worse than the disease. But if doctors were to individualize dosages for each patient, more people might take their medicine.
The P.D.R., however, is not designed to make personalized prescriptions. Instead, it provides doctors with the dosing information drug manufacturers calculate based on their studies and provide to the Food and Drug Administration. In fact, the P.D.R. entries repeat the packaging information the agency approves for every prescription drug.
Dr. Cohen said he became aware of the problem because he encountered many patients who suffered from side effects even though they had taken what were supposedly the correct doses of medicine. When Dr. Cohen consulted medical journals and textbooks, he discovered studies showing that many patients were helped by smaller than usual amounts of medication. And many of his own patients did better with reduced doses.
He said his findings helped explain a study published last year by other researchers, who reported that drug reactions in hospitals were among the nation's leading causes of death, killing more than 100,000 Americans a year. The deaths that the team studied were not due to medication errors by doctors or patients; they occurred in people taking doses thought to be correct.
But Dr. Cohen thinks many of the patients died because they were taking too much medicine: the "correct" doses were too strong for them. People vary greatly in their sensitivity to drugs, he said, and one person's remedy may be another's overdose. Although weight, age and sex help determine how a dose of medicine will affect someone, it is also possible for two people who are identical in those traits to react quite differently to the same dose of the same drug. Dosing guidelines from drug companies may be right for most people, but too high for "large subsets of patients," Dr. Cohen said.
Dosing guidelines are based on studies conducted by drug companies when they are seeking approval for new products, Dr. Cohen said. For those studies to run efficiently, doses need to be high enough to show as quickly as possible that the drug works. But later, after the drug is approved, far more people take it, sometimes along with other drugs, and individual differences begin to show up. That information does not always make it into the P.D.R., Dr. Cohen said.
Dr. Peter Honig, deputy director of the Office of Postmarketing Risk Assessment at the Food and Drug Administration, said: "We learn a lot about a drug after it's been approved. I think we would agree with that. He makes some good points. Individualized dosing is the way to go. But it's not well taught in medical school."
Dr. David Bates, an associate professor of medicine at the Harvard Medical School, called Dr. Cohen's idea an interesting hypothesis.
"In the elderly, it's clear that you want to start with lower doses," said Dr. Bates, who has written about adverse reactions for medical journals. "In them in particular it's quite clear that you get in trouble if you use a 'one size fits all' dosing, which doctors have tended to do. It may well be for younger people, too, that there's considerable variability in the way drugs are broken down."
Doctors are taught to "start low, go slow," Dr. Bates said, when prescribing medicines for people over 60 or 65, but that the advice may apply to younger patients as well.
Dr. Raymond Woosley, chairman of the department of pharmacology at Georgetown University in Washington, called Dr. Cohen's article "an outstanding paper, and a very important message."
Dr. Woosley named several drugs with recommended doses that he considered too high, including Viagra and the over-the-counter allergy medicine Chlortrimeton. In addition, he said, the AIDS drug AZT was first marketed at doses that turned out to be far too high and that had to be reduced.
Dr. Cohen said doctors might identify some people at risk for reactions by asking patients whether they had ever had an adverse reaction to a drug and whether they considered themselves unusually sensitive to medications or prone to side effects. Having a strong reaction to a little bit of alcohol or caffeine may also be a clue that a patient will be very sensitive to medicines, he said.
Drugs that have caused trouble in the past should be avoided, he said, and people who seem very sensitive to medicines can be started on low doses, which can be gradually increased if necessary. Some pills, but not capsules, can be cut to fine-tune doses.
But Dr. Woosley said that in his experience a bad reaction to one medicine could not be used to predict how a patient would fare with others.
Dr. Cohen cautioned that patients should not begin tinkering with doses of prescription drugs on their own. He said they needed to work with doctors to adjust the doses safely. With some drugs, doses cannot be changed; for example, antibiotics, antivirals and other medications used to treat infections must be taken full strength, according to the directions on the label. And in emergencies, he said, it is always safest to stick with the recommended doses.
A spokesman for Medical Economics Inc., publisher of the P.D.R., said that the information in the book was supplied by drug manufacturers and approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Dr. Carl Peck, a former director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the Federal drug agency, said, "One dose fits all is a marketing myth, but it's the holy grail that every drug company tries to achieve."
While at the drug agency, Dr. Peck conducted a study that showed that some drugs did come to market from 1980 to 1993 with dosing advice that had to be lowered. But, he said, that is less likely to occur today because during the last decade drug manufacturers have begun to study ranges of doses in the trials done before drugs are approved.
Some newer drugs, like cholesterol lowering agents and a nose spray for allergies, come with labeling that gives a recommended dose range and advises doctors to try to find the lowest effective dose.
Dr. Peck is now director of the center for drug development science at the Georgetown University Medical Center.
"The whole issue of getting the dose right has become an important focus for the F.D.A.," Dr. Peck said, "and I think the F.D.A. and the drug companies are making a good-faith effort to do better these days."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jay S. Cohen says he has found that many patients suffer adverse reactions to recommended doses of medicine. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)(pg. F2)
 
Chart: "How Big a Dose? Ask the Patient" -- Before writing a prescription, says Dr. Jay S. Cohen, doctors should give every patient a questionnaire to determine whether they need the standard dose. Here are excerpts.
 
1. Are you sensitive to any prescription or nonprescription drugs?
 
2. How are you affected by alcohol?
 
3. Do some drugs make you tired or sleepy: Cold or allergy remedies or antihistamines? Tranquilizers or anticonvulsants? Motion-sickness remedies or antinausea agents?
 
4. Do some drugs give you energy or cause anxiety or insomnia: Coffee, tea, chocolate, other caffeinelike substances? Appetite suppressants (prescription or nonprescription)? Cold or allergy remedies or decongestants? 1
 
5. Have you ever had a reaction to epinephrine (adrenaline chloride, often injected by dentists along with pain-numbing medication)?
 
6. Have you had any side effects from any other prescription or nonprescription drugs (like impaired memory or coordination, blurred vision, headaches indigestion, diarrhea, constipation, dizziness, palpitations, rashes, swelling, ringing in ears, other reactions)?
 
8. Over all, how would you describe yourself with regard to medication: Very sensitive? Not particularly sensitive? Very tolerant; usually require high doses? (pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); DOCTORS; VIAGRA (DRUG); PROZAC (DRUG) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); WRITERS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); HYPERTENSION (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CHOLESTEROL (55%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: GRADY, DENISE JAY S COHEN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



288 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Giving Trump A Swift Kick Upstairs

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
BY the reckoning of no less than the United Nations, the world's population hits the six billion mark today.
With all respect to international experts in such matters, that figure cannot be right. There must be many more people than that on the planet because most days there are at least six billion people traipsing through mid-Manhattan alone. 
 That's what it feels like, anyway, much of the time; six billion people pushing and shoving their way past endless construction sites, looking faintly unhinged as they claw their way to an appointment or a lunch or a matinee. Times Square, ground zero for much of the frenzy, can make a Nine Inch Nails concert seem uncrowded and serene. The streets there, stripped to the roadbed, bring back visions of the Ho Chi Minh Trail after a B-52 strike.
You may think that a patriotic New Yorker should feel thrilled with all the construction because it is a sign of boom times and of a resurgent city, bigger and better than ever.
Bigger, for sure. But even someone who bleeds New York blue, white and orange has to wonder if all sense of proportion has been lost. One 40-story tower is good for a neighborhood? Well, then, several 40-story towers must be several times better. That seems to be the prevailing logic among city planners, who, if they were bakers, would probably decorate a wedding cake with dozens of little brides and grooms. More is better, no?
But there are encouraging signals that City Hall has begun to get a grip. The indications include plans to change the zoning laws so that, at last, height limits are put on new skyscrapers.
Had such restrictions been in place a few years ago, for example, the latest monument to Donald J. Trump's ego could not have legally been built. That's Trump World Tower, a 72-story apartment building rising on First Avenue in the 40's, a corner of the city whose populace is divided into two principal categories: the haves and the have-mores. Mr. Trump hopes to lure a third group, the have-mosts, to his building, where condominiums up in the ozone layer leave million-dollar price tags far behind.
To really restore rational planning to New York civic life, an even more effective tactic than zoning laws might be to elect Mr. Trump President next year. Once he moves into the White House with the First Babe, whoever she may be, he will presumably be too busy setting the world right to tart up Manhattan with any more marble and glass odes to himself.
Go ahead, laugh. But Mr. Trump insists he can win, and a National Enquirer poll backs him up. You need better proof than that?
O.K., he has image problems, including the fact that he looks a little like someone who shares a barber with Slobodan Milosevic. But that shouldn't hurt him much if he runs for the Reform Party nomination against the likes of Patrick J. Buchanan, whom Mr. Trump portrays as out of goose step with mainstream America.
IT may not even be necessary to wait for Mr. Trump's election for New Yorkers to feel the benefits. That could happen once he formally declares his candidacy.
Given the near-impossibility of turning a corner here without seeing the name Trump plastered on one tower or another, the City Council would have reason to deem this an unfair campaign advantage and order the immediate de-Trumping of buildings. Taking down his name could be rationalized as a blow not only for political equity, but also for good taste.
Of course, to avoid possible charges of bias in the race for United States senator next year, Council members might also have to redesignate the several Clinton Streets and Clinton Avenues. But that should present no hardship. Naming streets is one thing the Council does very well.
Then, with Mr. Trump out of the picture, New Yorkers can focus on truly urgent development issues likely to emerge in the 21st century. There are too many to go into, but here's one:
The United Nations -- let's assume it is right with that six billion figure -- projects that by 2050, a quarter of the developed world will be over 65. Think what that will mean for a city like New York, whose economy depends heavily on its thousands of restaurants.
How many early-bird specials do you think those places can offer and still stay in business? Yet, with the clock ticking, not a single politician is talking about this issue. Where is leadership when you need it? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TRUMP WORLD TOWER (NYC); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 LAND USE PLANNING (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); ZONING (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



289 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: The Italianization of Europe

BYLINE: By Josef Joffe; Josef Joffe, editorial page editor of Suddeutsche Zeitung in Munich, is a visiting lecturer at Stanford University.

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif.

 BODY:
We are quite the best country in Europe," Lady Thatcher, she of the tart tongue and whiplash diction, recently informed her fellow Tories. In her lifetime, she added, "all the problems have come from mainland Europe and all the solutions have come from the English-speaking nations across the world."
One might quibble with that harsh verdict, but she is certainly right that the "English-speaking nations" are different from the rest of the West. Start with the Magna Carta and the United States Constitution, which enshrined limited government while Europe was aching under popes, emperors and Sun Kings. They think differently: the English-speaking nations have Locke and Jefferson, while the Europeans have Hegel and Marx. When in doubt, the English speakers will go for liberty and the market while the Europeans will opt for equality and paternalism. 
 These are the deepest cultural roots of Reaganism and Thatcherism, those brutal movements of the 1980's that whacked regulation, chopped welfare and defenestrated organized labor. The fine points will be argued forever, but it was that revolution from above that gave America full employment and Britain a jobless rate half that of the European Union.
Sure, European unemployment has declined from 12 percent in the mid-90's to an average of 9 percent today. But that is not good enough, especially since much of the improvement is not the result of market-minded reform but of the end of a European slump almost as old as the American boom.
Is anybody capable of pulling a Thatcher? Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany is talking like his British soul mate Tony Blair, and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France sometimes talks like Mr. Schroder. "People must stop expecting the Government and the state to take charge of everything," he said in mid-September.
But Mr. Jospin also said, "We are not going in for 'social liberalism' " -- a code word for the freer-market doctrines pushed by Mr. Blair and Mr. Schroder. While the Jospinistes have privatized some state companies, they have also introduced a 35-hour workweek, which will not do wonders for French competitiveness.
Mr. Schroder is in more serious trouble because after months of wavering, he has started hawking a harsh reformist line of cuts in taxes, regulations and welfare. The reward? He has been bloodied in every regional election since -- Brandenburg, Saarland, Thuringia, Saxony and, last weekend, Berlin. And his Social Democrats have lost many a city hall in their traditional stronghold of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's Rust Belt.
The lesson is that Continental leaders cannot pull a Reagan or Thatcher. First, because of Europe's proportional-representation voting systems, coalition governments will rule from here to eternity. And they generate not power but stalemate.
More fundamentally, Europeans do not like change that might rob them of a little security here and a few entitlements there. Two unwritten articles of their constitutions say: No change, please, and if it is absolutely unavoidable, losers must be compensated. So voters will punish those who, like Mr. Schroder, timidly try to dismantle a towering edifice of entitlements that eats up half of Europe's gross domestic product.
But do not cry for us, Lady Thatcher. Look instead beneath the level of stalemated state power, and you will detect the wondrous winds of change. Business is downsizing. Labor markets, though formally untouched, are displaying work-rule flexibility and even giving back wages. Call it the "Italianization" of the Continent. Italy has had some 60 revolving-door governments since World War II. So Italians have learned not just to flout their rulers, but to do without them, ignoring laws, regulations and tax collectors. The Italian economy long ago decoupled from the state.
Other European societies have begun to follow, though minus the Mafia and endemic corruption. Take Germany. Those vaunted nationwide collective bargaining agreements that make work as expensive in rich Munich as in impoverished Bremen endure on paper only. Companies strike their own deals on the shop floor. To save jobs, shop stewards will simply ignore union headquarters. Likewise, the French tire maker Michelin recently vowed to cut 10 percent from its work force, never mind that Mr. Jospin was "shocked."
Sometimes economic activity goes underground, where it is neither taxed nor regulated. Some 15 percent of Germany's G.D.P. is produced in the "shadow economy," meaning that dour old Deutschland is mutating into a Northern version of la bella Italia. The productive parts of society are learning to take care of themselves, prodded by the stern discipline of the global market.
"Get out of my way," is the economy's message to government. The chairman of General Electric, Jack Welsh, said it first. But if the Iron Lady were listening, she would hear a multivoiced "amen" -- from Calais to Calabria.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Richard Boynton/Wink)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); SAARLAND, GERMANY (79%); THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); SAARLAND, GERMANY (79%); THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (72%); WORK WEEK (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TRENDS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%); 

PERSON: JOFFE, JOSEF GERHARD SCHRODER (71%); TONY BLAIR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999



290 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: THE POP LIFE;
Blues Reconnect With Roots

BYLINE: By Neil Strauss 

DATELINE: HELENA, ARK.

 BODY:
This former plantation town in eastern Arkansas is not an obvious choice for a festival, with a crumbling downtown, a shrinking population now at 7,000 and all the economic problems and racial tensions one would expect in Phillips County, the poorest county in the state. But back in the 1930's and 40's, when Helena was a relatively thriving agricultural port on the Mississippi, it was the blues center of the Delta, with juke joints lining the streets, now-legendary musicians playing for change on the piers, and, beginning in 1941, a groundbreaking, highly influential afternoon blues broadcast called "King Biscuit Time," featuring the harmonica player Sonny Boy Williamson (the former Rice Miller).
Capitalizing on this heritage, local officials and blues fans borrowed a trailer from a traveling evangelist 13 years ago and used it as a stage for the first King Biscuit Blues Festival, which has now grown to become the largest free blues gathering in the South and an extraordinary opportunity for fans of the music to see a living tradition reconnect with its roots. 
 The 14th annual festival took place last week, from Thursday to Saturday, and thus overcame what may have been the greatest odds ever stacked against it. First came a lawsuit filed by a handful of local disgruntled black merchants and the regional branch of the N.A.A.C.P. charging civil rights violations. Naming the city's Mayor, Dr. Robert D. Miller (the first-ever black Mayor in this town with a minority white population), and the City Council as defendants, the lawsuit alleged that the city favored white merchants and festival organizers.
In the meantime, several sponsors (whose support is crucial to pulling off a free concert that doesn't receive any government money) threatened to withdraw if the festival didn't change its logo. That was a replica of the design on packages of Sonny Boy Cornmeal (an illustration of Sonny Boy Williamson sitting on an ear of corn with a harmonica in his hands), which were sold in the 40's by the makers of King Biscuit Flour to exploit the popularity of the radio show. Although Williamson was said to have been proud of the package, festival sponsors thought the image could be construed as racist. And then there was one more threat to the festival, the weather report: rain, rain and more rain.
But three weeks ago, a Federal judge ruled in favor of the festival. And promoters solved the logo dispute by cropping the cornmeal image so that it showed just a close-up of Williamson's face and harmonica.
But they could not stop the rain. It either poured or drizzled through most of the festival, forcing the cancellation of several acts, including Little Milton. As loyal locals and blues hounds from around the world stood in the downpour while Magic Slim and the Teardrops performed, the electric shocks Magic Slim kept getting from the microphone didn't help the performance any. Because of the terrible weather, the festival, which expected attendance to top last year's 135,000, saw fewer than 100,000 people over the weekend.
Nonetheless, for those who showed up, the King Biscuit Blues Festival was a casual and ideal way to experience the music. Fans sat on railroad tracks or in folding chairs on the grassy levee, watching performances by Robert Lockwood Jr., Son Seals, Pinetop Perkins with Bob Margolin, Sam Carr, W. C. Clark, the duo of Cephas and Wiggins and dozens more. Cherry Street, running behind the stage, seemed to be in a time warp, with musicians who weren't booked in the festival playing for change in the street, their electric guitars plugged into the outlets of obliging stores like the V.I.P. Beauty Salon. At stalls in the road, the James Alexander Masonic Lodge sold hog maws, Live Critters offered hermit crabs and the Lighthouse Assembly of God displayed dolls made out of hymn books.
Onstage on Saturday night was Son Seals, who has become a road warrior in recent years despite having had his leg amputated over the summer because of diabetes complications and the lower half of his face reconstructed after being shot by his wife two years ago. For more than an hour he played fast, melting lead guitar lines that oozed off the stage like syrup. Backstage, sitting with the pianist Pinetop Perkins, he discussed the letter he had written to the local newspaper to help defend the festival from accusations of racism, accusations that festival promoters and most townspeople say are trumped up. "I had to do that," Mr. Seals said. "I wanted to tell the truth."
Mr. Perkins, 86, sat slouched in a chair next to him, nodding in agreement and telling stories about performing in Helena more than 50 years ago. "I've been playing here since way back, as the King Biscuit Boys," he said, clicking his tongue. "Ain't but two of us left."
The other remaining King Biscuit Time mainstay, Robert Lockwood Jr., lived around Helena as a teen-ager, playing guitar with his stepfather, Robert Johnson. Of all the Delta musicians onstage, Mr. Lockwood had deviated most from his roots, playing his own blues-jazz hybrid on 12-string guitar over the swing and jump of a brassy backing band.
As if performances by Mr. Lockwood and Mr. Perkins weren't enough of a connection to Helena's musical past, a further reminder came from the fact that not only was there a street named after the bluesman Frank Frost two blocks away from the main stage, but Mr. Frost was still living on that street. Barely able to play because of ill health, Mr. Frost made a brief appearance during a set by his bandmate of 45 years, the drummer Sam Carr. Spectators onstage said they saw Mr. Carr crying as he played.
Blues in the Delta has always been an around-the-clock occupation. After performing on the main stage for tens of thousands of people, many musicians went straight to nearby hangouts like Ellie Mae's to perform in dilapidated barrooms for just a handful of locals and fans.
The best of these impromptu performances was a small picnic at Mr. Carr's shack, which stands in the middle of a picturesque stretch of farmland across the Mississippi River. Identifying the house and its occupant is a mailbox that, Mr. Carr said, has occasionally been stolen by blues souvenir hunters. For an audience of about 25 people, Mr. Carr beat highly stylized stiff-armed patterns. Accompanying him from the other side of a picnic table was the harpist Arthur Williams, who sat under a tree wailing merrily away with a briefcase full of harmonicas splayed open at his feet.
For those whose tastes ran beyond the blues, the festival had more to offer. Inside the Malco Theater on Cherry Street local gospel groups sang and preached for enthusiastic townspeople. Among them was Mayor Miller, who stood in the lobby buying popcorn. "I know it looks a little odd for the Mayor of a town with the largest blues festival in the South to be at the gospel stage," he said sheepishly. "Especially since I'm a Roman Catholic. But my son is a Pentecostal minister, and he's my spiritual adviser."
Mayor Miller said he was thinking of starting a gospel festival, although he remained a blues fan and played piano with the King Biscuit Boys in 1945 to fill in for an ailing musician. He stuffed a handful of popcorn in his mouth and reached to pick up a leather medical bag on the counter, explaining that he was also the local general practitioner and had just attended to an emergency.
As for the lawsuit, he dismissed it. "As long as I'm Mayor, the festival is not going anywhere," he said, adding after a reflective pause, "and that's probably why I am Mayor here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucky Lopez Evans of Madison, Wis. playing on a Helena, Ark., street. (Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HELENA (ARK); UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; FESTIVALS; KING BISCUIT BLUES FESTIVAL FESTIVALS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MUSIC (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); RICE MILLING (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); JUDGES (65%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL KING BISCUIT BLUES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



291 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: ZHIRINOVSKY TO TRY AGAIN
The Russian nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky said he might form a new party to get back on the ballot for the December parliamentary election. The Central Election Commission disqualified Mr. Zhirinovsky's Liberal Democratic Party from the vote, saying senior officials had failed to declare all of their property. Mr. Zhirinvosky said he might submit a new list of candidates, forge a new bloc or perhaps even create a new party.
Michael R. Gordon (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: MANDELSON ON THE JOB
Peter Mandelson spent his first full day as Northern Ireland Secretary, meeting in Belfast with the leaders of the Ulster Unionists, the largest Protestant party, and Sinn Fein, the political wing of the I.R.A. Mr. Mandelson, left, Prime Minister Tony Blair's closest confidant who is returning to Government 10 months after being forced out in a financial scandal, was accompanied by Mo Mowlam, his predecessor.
Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: FARMERS STRIKE BACK
Farmers in Plymouth blocked French trucks from bringing produce into England to protest France's refusal to comply with the European Union's Aug. 1 decision to lift the ban on imports of British beef. France says its own food safety experts doubt the European Commission's finding that British beef is fully free of the mad cow disease that prompted the 1996 ban.
Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
IRELAND: 6 TIED TO I.R.A. ARMS
The police arrested six people in three counties in connection with what they said was an operation to smuggle arms from the United States to the Irish Republican Army. The I.R.A. is in the third year of a cease-fire and says it has not sanctioned the import of any weapons.
Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
ITALY: ANDREOTTI DENIES MAFIA MEETING
Acquitted last month of charges that he conspired with the Mafia in a 1979 murder, former Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti, 80, dismissed a Palermo prosecutor's claim that in 1987 he met and kissed Salvatore (The Beast) Riina, a convicted Mafia boss. "If I as Prime Minister really went to a home of a person under house arrest to meet with a man known to be a Mafia chief on the run," Mr. Andreotti told the jurors, "then this court should not only condemn me but lock me up in a psychiatric prison."
Alesssandra Stanley (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
PERU: REBELS END JAIL PROTEST
Fifty imprisoned Marxist guerrillas ended a three-week hunger strike in a high-security prison in the Andean city of Arequipa without winning concessions from authorities to improve prison conditions. It was the most aggressive public action by the pro-Cuban Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement since its guerrillas took hundreds of hostages in a raid on the Japanese Ambassador's residence three years ago.
Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
BRAZIL: TROOPS GUARD ENERGY SITE
Maneuvers by some 2,500 state military policemen have begun in the area of a hydroelectric power complex that is the focal point of a dispute between the central Government and the state of Minas Gerais. The governor opposes the sale of Government-owned energy companies to private interests.
Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: GANDHI STILL PARTY LEADER
The Congress Party president, Sonia Gandhi, was unanimously chosen to lead the party in Parliament, despite the party's searing defeat in national elections. She did not say, however, whether she will appoint herself or someone else to serve as day-to-day leader of the opposition on the floor of the lower house. Ms. Gandhi, who will be making her debut in Parliament, accepted responsibility for the party's defeat.
Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
KAZAKHSTAN: NEW PREMIER PICKED
A former Foreign Minister known in the West as an economic reformer, Kasymhomart Tokayev, left, has been chosen as the new Prime Minister. He takes over at a time when citizens remain poor despite the country's vast oil and gas resources. Ultimate power in the Central Asian nation lies with the autocratic President, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Stephen Kinzer (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
YEMEN: KHAT BANNED FROM SKIES
The national airline has banned the chewing of khat on its flights, an official newspaper reported. The step is the latest in a national campaign against the mild stimulant, a bitter leaf that is widely chewed by rich and poor alike in Yemen.
Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
ISRAEL: SETTLEMENTS FACE AX
Prime Minister Ehud Barak announced that 15 of 42 unauthorized Jewish settlements built in the West Bank in the last year are to be dismantled, public television reported. He made the announcement at a meeting with the Settlers' Council, which tried to persuade him to legalize the outposts, the television said.
(Agence France-Presse)
 
PALESTINIANS: NEW WEB ADDRESS
Palestinians striving for a state will be asserting independence on the Internet, ending their addresses with ".ps" to signify a Palestinian state, an official said. Palestinians have been using ".wg" at the end of their Internet addresses to signify the West Bank and Gaza. Israeli addresses end in ".il."
(Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
NIGERIA: ABACHA SON TIED TO MURDER
A Nigerian official says a son of the former military ruler, Gen. Sani Abacha, is to be charged with murder, BBC News reported. Mohammed Abacha is to appear in court this week. President Olusegun Obasanjo confirmed last week that Mohammed Abacha had been detained for what he called heinous crimes. He gave no details but reports say they include the killing of Kudirat Abiola, a wife of the late opposition leader, Moshood Abiola. She died when her car was ambushed in Lagos in 1996.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

COMPANY: SINN FEIN (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); PRISONS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BEEF (74%); MEATS (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARRESTS (69%); HOUSE ARREST (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); SMUGGLING (69%); CONSPIRACY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); SCANDALS (68%); JURY TRIALS (67%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (66%); FOOD SAFETY (66%); ACQUITTAL (62%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); 

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (75%); TONY BLAIR (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



292 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola Plans New Program For Its Flagship Soft Drink

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
With demand for cola on the wane, the Coca-Cola Company is planning what amounts to a reintroduction of its flagship soft drink, Coca-Cola Classic.
The program, known as Ignition 2000, will drop the "Always Coca-Cola" tagline that has been in place since 1993, replacing it with a new set of graphics known inside the company as the Sensation Graphics. 
 The move comes as record numbers of consumers are scorning cola in favor of fruit drinks, teas, bottled water and other beverages that were not available a decade ago. It is not clear whether all of those consumers are new to the market, or whether longtime cola drinkers are switching to something else.
The changes were reported earlier this week in Beverage Digest, an industry newsletter, which cited materials distributed to bottlers. A report in Brandweek last month also discussed some of the changes. A spokesman for Coca-Cola would not provide any details, but did confirm that a major program was being planned for Coca-Cola Classic. "We have a number of initiatives in the works," said the spokesman, Bob Bertini. "They are still in the development stages, and we're not going to comment on anything."
But others who had been briefed on the program said it included a heavy emphasis on eight-ounce glass bottles, which would be sold chilled as part of an effort to promote the taste of Coca-Cola Classic, which is the name regular Coke took after the New Coke debacle.
Coke, which packages the vast majority of its colas in aluminum cans or plastic bottles, has used glass bottles for various commemorative products in recent years, but one analyst said the plans outlined in Ignition 2000 went well beyond that.
"It's going to be more than commemorative," said Andrew J. Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley. "It's a push to build the brand again."
Cola remains the biggest-selling soft drink in the United States, but its grip on consumers has softened considerably in the last decade. According to Beverage Digest/Maxwell, in 1990, about 71.7 percent of all soft drinks sold were colas. But by last year, that had fallen to 61.9 percent. Coca-Cola Classic's share of that dwindling market has risen, from 28.1 percent to 33.3 percent in the period, while Pepsi-Cola's share has declined, from 24.6 percent in 1990 to 22.9 percent last year.
Pepsi-Cola tried to reinvigorate its brand in the spring with a new advertising campaign that included the tagline "Joy of Cola" and featured a series of mostly well-received television commercials. Pepsi's market share has also been nibbling at Coke's dominance, according to recent supermarket scanner data. But both Coke and Pepsi have been hurt by declining sales, brought about partly by a jump in retail prices that appears to have shocked consumers who had grown used to deep discounts on soft drinks over the last several years.
Other changes Coke is expected to announce include a tagline, "Enjoy all that's inside." The "Sensation" graphics being distributed to bottlers show a contoured bottle of Coca-Cola tipped to one side, its cap off and its contents spurting out.
Coca-Cola, like many other consumer products companies that bet heavily on global growth, has been suffering through a kind of corporate annus horribilis, with its share price and earnings falling and its sales off in many places around the world. In addition, Coca-Cola's public image was tarnished by a recall of drinks in parts of Europe this spring, which began after dozens of people in Belgium said they felt ill after drinking the company's products.
Yesterday the share price fell $1.8125, to close at $50.5625, which was $24.875 off its 52-week high.
One bottler said he had not seen the new ads, but was well aware of the flagging consumer desire for cola. "They want to try root beer, then fruit drinks; they jump all over the place," said J. Bruce Llewellyn, chairman and chief executive of the Philadelphia Coca-Cola Bottling Company. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT COCA-COLA CO (96%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES SOFT DRINKS (91%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET SHARE (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



293 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: The Six Billion Mark

 BODY:
The world's population reached six billion this week, by United Nations estimates. The news is daunting, given that the figure has doubled since 1960. Yet six billion actually represents significant progress made in the past 30 years in reducing birth rates, improving health care and giving women greater access to education and economic opportunities. Without such modernization, population growth would have been higher than it is now.
In a single generation, fertility rates have declined in virtually every nation. Industrialized countries have seen birthrates fall from 2.8 children per woman in the 1950's to roughly 1.6 today. In the developing world, birthrates have dropped from 6.2 children per woman to slightly less than 3. Over the next several decades the world's population will continue to grow, but more slowly, reaching 8.9 billion in 2050, and stabilizing at about 10 billion in 2200. 
 This scenario is a far cry from the dire predictions about the population explosion commonly made in the 1960's. Even so, population growth will occur mostly in the poorest nations that are least prepared to deal with worsening population pressures on the environment, water supply, food production and social infrastructure.
One of the great lessons learned in the past three decades is that controlling population growth is inextricably tied to development strategies that improve gender equity, expand education for women, increase access to reproductive health care and give women more economic power. All these factors help enable women to choose to have smaller, healthier families.
The 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo set a broad agenda focused on these objectives, which were agreed to by 179 countries. Many nations are now trying to put these population development goals into practice. But financial support from the industrialized nations has been lacking.
The Cairo Conference estimated that $17 billion would be needed annually for population and health activities, with about two-thirds coming from the developing countries themselves and one-third from international donors. But total funding from international donors in 1997 was less than $2 billion, far short of the goal. The United States remains the leading donor in family planning programs, but its support has been declining in recent years. Anti-abortion rhetoric continues to be used in Congress to limit aid for international family planning programs.
The challenges facing developing nations are enormous. Even now, nearly 600,000 women die annually during pregnancy, more than 350 million women do not have access to a range of effective contraceptive methods, and 600 million women cannot read or write. These conditions remain big obstacles in achieving population stabilization. Unless international funding increases, the next billion people may be consigned to lives of privation in countries where resources are already stretched to the limit. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE BUILDING OFFICIALS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (50%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; WOMEN; EDITORIALS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); TRENDS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); FERTILITY RATES (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); FAMILY PLANNING (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); FAMILY (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (77%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (77%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); ABORTION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



294 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: High Court Is Urged to Uphold 'Citizen Suit' to Curb Pollution

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
When Congress passed the Clean Water Act 27 years ago, it included a "citizen suit" provision authorizing private individuals to sue polluters and collect fines that would go not to the successful plaintiffs but directly to the Federal treasury.
In the face of growing judicial hostility to such suits, a case argued today before the Supreme Court could determine whether that provision, and similar clauses in other Federal environmental laws, would continue to be of much use. 
 The case, an appeal by Friends of the Earth and other environmental groups from a ruling that dismissed their suit against the operator of a hazardous waste incinerator on a river in South Carolina, has galvanized the environmental movement as have few Supreme Court cases in recent years.
The hourlong argument was highly technical, laced with references to Supreme Court precedents on jurisdictional issues like standing and mootness, but the policy debate at the heart of the case peeked through.
"What cases do you know," Justice Antonin Scalia asked the environmental groups' lawyer, Bruce J. Terris, that consider it "a proper function of the courts to impose a public penalty in private litigation?"
Justice Scalia, perhaps the judiciary's strongest critic of citizen suit provisions, said such suits usurped the ordinary function of the executive branch and brought about "a major alteration of power between the various branches of government and between the Federal and state governments."
When Mr. Terris replied that in the view of Congress citizen suits were not really private lawsuits but served to "carry out a public function," Justice Scalia cut him off.
"I understand that Congress has said it," he said. "The question is whether it's constitutional."
No other members of the Court appeared eager to take up Justice Scalia's effort to turn a discussion on the meaning of a Federal statute into a major constitutional debate over the separation of powers. Nonetheless, the exchange was a reminder that although the environmental groups were relieved last spring when the Justices agreed to hear their appeal of what they considered a very damaging lower court ruling, that relief could prove to be premature. The Supreme Court, which itself has restricted citizen suits in several recent rulings, could use this case, Friends of the Earth v. Laidlaw Environmental Services, No. 98-822, to restrict such suits further.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, made new law in this case in two respects. First, it ruled that the suit had to be dismissed as moot because, although the incinerator was still discharging excess levels of mercury into the North Tyger River when the suit was filed, in 1992, the operator acquired new anti-pollution equipment and stopped the discharges soon thereafter.
Second, the appellate court said, since the plaintiffs had not "prevailed" in their litigation, they were not entitled to reimbursement of their lawyers' fees and court costs. The Fourth Circuit thus became the only appellate court to reject what has become known as the catalyst theory, under which environmental and civil rights plaintiffs who can show that their lawsuit brought about a change in the defendant's behavior can recover their fees and costs even if the lawsuit did not result in an official court judgment.
Both aspects of the Fourth Circuit's ruling are before the Supreme Court. The plaintiffs are arguing that if a defendant can avoid all liability by modifying its behavior once a suit is filed, citizen suits will become economically impractical.
A separate question the Court may need to address is whether the closing of the plant in May, two months after the Justices agreed to hear the case, means there is no longer a live issue for them to resolve and, if so, whether the Fourth Circuit decision should remain on the books.
New York, Connecticut and 12 other states entered the case on the side of the environmental groups, arguing in a brief that citizen suits fill gaps in enforcement and "help states focus their regulatory aims." The Clinton Administration also supports the plaintiffs. Jeffrey P. Minear, an assistant solicitor general, told the Court today that the fines imposed in these suits are valuable deterrents against continued violations.
Donald A. Cockrill, arguing today for the company, now known as the Safety-Kleen Corporation and based in Columbia, S.C., said the $405,000 in penalties the Federal District Court imposed on his client "had no deterrent effect." He said that while "deterrence to me implies that someone doesn't want to do what's right and you have to goad them into it," the company was already close to compliance by the time the suit was filed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (57%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (57%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES INC; FRIENDS OF THE EARTH SAFETY-KLEEN INC (57%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES INC; FRIENDS OF THE EARTH FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INCINERATORS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VERDICTS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (75%); WATER QUALITY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



295 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Worry Over Rates Causes Dow to Drop 231.12 Points

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices staged a broad, sharp retreat yesterday, pulled down by rising interest rates, political instability in Pakistan and the prospect that third-quarter corporate earnings may not live up to expectations.
Interest rates rose in reaction to a surge in crude oil prices. Late yesterday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond stood at 6.22 percent, its highest level in nearly two years. 
 Concern about rising rates was worsened by an announcement from the Raytheon Company that sales and earnings would not be up to expectations for the balance of this year and in 2000. Word of a possible military coup in Pakistan, a development that could heighten tension with India, became an additional source of instability.
"We are still stuck squarely in a trading range, but it looks like the market may be adjusting to the downside again," said Michael Clark, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "It will be tough to get positive momentum back until many of the issues that are confronting the market are resolved."
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 231.12 points, or 2.17 percent, to 10,417.06, its biggest decline in more than four months. Of the 30 stocks that make up the blue-chip index only 2, Chevron and International Paper, managed to rise in price. Hewlett-Packard, American Express and I.B.M. all fell by more than 3 points.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 22.17, or 1.66 percent, to 1,313.04.
Raytheon, the biggest loser among S.& P. 500 stocks, did not trade for much of the day. The stock suffered its worst one-day decline in nearly two decades once it finally did open for trading, and closed at 24 1/4, down 18 3/4.
The Nasdaq composite index, which set a record on Monday, fell 43.52, or 1.5 percent, to 2,872.43. And the Russell 2000 index of small company stocks dropped 5.51, or 1.3 percent, to 424.68.
At 772 million shares, trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange was fairly light. But losing stocks outnumbered those that rose in price by a margin of five to two.
On the Nasdaq stock market, 992 million shares changed hands.
Additional questions about the market's near-term direction emerged after the close yesterday, when the technology bellwether Intel released an earnings report that fell a bit short of expectations. During regular trading, Intel was one of a small number of stocks that moved higher on the day, closing at 76 11/16, up 3/16. But the stock was down as much as 5 in after-hours trading.
The rise in crude oil prices helped to bolster oil stocks.
Royal Dutch Petroleum gained 5/8, to 58. Chevron was up 1 1/8, to 88. And BP Amoco rose 7/8, to 54.
The rise in interest rates hammered big Internet stocks. America Online fell 7 1/16, to 114. Yahoo fell for a second day, dropping 7 1/2, to 173 7/8. And eBay lost 5, to 144 3/4.
"The Federal Reserve Board has to be happy to see some air come out of the market," said David L. Mead, chief investment officer at Harris Bank in Chicago.
Mr. Mead said stocks could correct a bit more from here, and that over the near-term bonds seem a better investment.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Post Decline
 By Bloomberg News
 Treasury bond prices fell and yields rose to two-month highs yesterday on concern that reports later this week will show inflation accelerating fast enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again.
The 30-year bond fell 16/32, to 98 21/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.22 percent from 6.19 on Monday.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.792	97.508	High Rate	4.78%	4.93%	Coupon Yield	4.91%	5.13%	Low Rate	4.67%	4.82%	Median Rate	4.76%	4.90%	Total applied for	$27,447,837	$27,951,246	Accepted	$13,784,837	$11,965,496	Noncompetitive	$1,347,906	$1,157,486	

Both issues are dated Oct. 14, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 13, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on April 13, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (83%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (91%); 

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (83%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); INTEL CORP (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (55%); COUPS (55%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N DAVID L MEAD (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



296 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Leadership Succession at Unesco: An Open Selection This Time

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 12

 BODY:
In a cautious move toward greater openness, Unesco's executive board will hold job interviews on Wednesday for the post of the organization's director general.
No less unusual, all 11 candidates have been campaigning publicly, creating the impression that for the first time personality and ideas may be as important as back-room political deals. 
 Political maneuvering has of course not stopped, with some countries and regions openly backing candidates and rumors flying of "checkbook" lobbying by at least two governments. But the quality of the contenders may become more relevant than in past years when the 58-nation board votes in secret next week to pick a successor to Federico Mayor Zaragoza of Spain.
The single candidate to be presented to Unesco's 186-nation general conference on Nov. 12 must win a majority.
Diplomats said that if no winner emerges from the first four ballots -- on successive days, starting Monday -- a runoff will be held between the two front-runners on Oct. 22.
What is at stake is a six-year term to run a 2,326-member staff, a $544 million annual budget and a mandate as broad as the Paris-based organization's full name: the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
But the new director general will also take over a Unesco still plagued by bureaucracy, inefficiency and nepotism and widely viewed as urgently needing an overhaul.
Western diplomats say Unesco today is nonetheless a far cry from the left-leaning talk shop that the United States and Britain abandoned in 1985. Britain rejoined in 1997.
At the time, with Amadou Mahtar M'Bow of Senegal as director general, Unesco became particularly identified with promotion of a so-called new world information order, which was aimed at breaking a perceived monopoly of Western news organizations and which Western governments viewed as an attempt at global censorship.
Ismail Serageldin, an Egyptian intellectual who is a vice president of the World Bank, likes to describe himself as the candidate of "civic society" and, as such, has been most active in mobilizing outside support, with 43 Nobel Prize winners endorsing his candidacy.
In contrast, Ghazi Algosaibi, Saudi Arabia's Ambassador to London, has the Arab League's backing. Coming from a country with a monarchical form of government, he has been eager to portray himself as a poet and liberal.
Japan's Ambassador to Paris, Koichiro Matsuura, starts with the advantage that Japan is the largest contributor to Unesco's budget, to which he adds the promise of an efficient administration of Unesco. Gareth Evans, until recently Australia's Foreign Minister, is a late candidate who is thought to enjoy considerable European support. Neither Mr. Matsuura nor Mr. Evans is fluent in French, which may hurt them.
The next director general is widely expected to be one of those four men, although seven other candidates will also have a chance to make their pitch on Wednesday: Senake Bandaranaike, Sri Lanka's Ambassador to France; Ion Caramitru, Romania's Culture Minister; Lawrence Carrington, a diplomat from Trinidad and Tobago; Daniel Janicot, a French diplomat, currently Unesco's deputy director general; Rosario Manalo, the Philippines' Deputy Foreign Minister; Makaminan Makagiansar, Indonesia's delegate to Unesco, and Pal Pataki, a Hungarian diplomat.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: ARAGON, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ARAGON, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); LOBBYING (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); LIBERAL MEDIA (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN; MAYOR ZARAGOZA, FEDERICO

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



297 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: On Paper, Budget Balances Without Customary Raid on Social Security

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
Something symbolically enormous may have happened today: the Congressional Budget Office announced that the Government may have balanced the budget in fiscal 1999 without spending Social Security money.
If so, it would be the first time that has happened since 1960, when Dwight Eisenhower was President, gentlemen sported felt fedoras and women wore fox stoles. 
 Republicans, who have struggled to find a way to balance the 2000 budget without spending Social Security money, jumped on the budget office's estimate as evidence of their fiscal discipline.
"Even with all the emergency spending we had in '99, we did not spend Social Security dollars," said the House majority leader, Dick Armey, Republican of Texas. "This is, like, the first time, and we really stepped over the line now."
President Clinton and the Republicans in Congress are locked in a political struggle over whether the spending bills that Congress writes and the President signs will once again dip into the Social Security surplus. Both parties have portrayed themselves as protectors of the retirement funds.
Today's announcement may make those arguments more politically potent than ever. But budget experts continue to point out that the arguments are over such relatively small figures that they have almost no impact on the economy.
"We've reached the promised land, at least temporarily," said Robert D. Reischauer, director of the budget office from 1989 to 1995.
"Fiscally, it's irrelevant," he said. "But it's psychologically and symbolically very important. If any budget expert told you in 1997 that we would have balanced the budget by 1999, this person would have been committed" to an asylum.
The budget office said the Government's general revenues showed a $1 billion surplus for fiscal 1999, which ended Sept. 30. It cautioned that the figures were preliminary. They may be off by as much as $3 billion, so the promised land may be a mirage.
Surplus Social Security funds have functioned as money under the mattress for Congress for four decades. When general Government revenues to run Federal agencies run out, Congress taps into the retirement funds. Almost all outside experts say that spending Social Security surpluses has had no effect on its benefits.
Republicans have been vowing almost daily never again to spend the money. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert again promised today never to "return to the days when Democrats raided Social Security."
The struggle, which both sides have represented as a fight to "save Social Security," has driven the Republicans to employ tens of billions of dollars in accounting devices, which even some in their own party are calling gimmicks and tricks, to make their spending bills appear to keep that promise.
Though both parties rushed to claim credit for today's supposed surplus, the new numbers calculated by the budget office show that everyone in Washington underestimated the force that may have balanced the budget: unexpectedly high tax revenues generated by a rip-roaring economy.
A year ago, most people believed that Congress had spent at least $21 billion and as much as $37 billion in Social Security funds in the fiscal 1999 spending bills.
But as the tax money rolled into the Federal counting house this spring and summer, that number dwindled. Today, on paper, it disappeared.
The report that the budget may be balanced "is probably worth a good headline, but beyond that it is not clear what it will portend," said Dan Crippen, director of the budget office since 1995.
"Whether we are on one side or another of the line by a billion is not as important as the economic growth that caused us to arrive at the line," Mr. Crippen said.
And Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, credited the White House for "an enormous fiscal achievement that seemed unimaginable when President Clinton took office."
Mr. Reischauer, a veteran of past budget battles, demurred.
"There is every likelihood that we will fall from grace in the current fiscal year unless saved again by the power of the economy to generate unexpected revenues," he said "And woe be to those who are blamed for a fall from grace."
The new budget office figures show about $125 billion in excess Social Security funds for fiscal 1999, above and beyond the projected $1 billion surplus in general Government revenues.
If Congress really has the will to keep its hands off the Social Security surpluses for the next 10 years, about $2 trillion of those revenues will accrue, says the budget office. Left untouched, they would halve the Federal debt of more than $3.6 trillion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker J. Dennis Hastert discussed the budget at a news conference yesterday. With him were, from right, Representatives Thomas M. Davis of Virginia, Dick Armey, the House majority leader, and Tom DeLay, the majority whip, both of Texas, and Tillie Fowler of Florida. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (95%); SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM TOM DAVIS (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



298 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: What Makes A Big Airport Hum?;
Atlanta's May Do It Best, But Growing Pains Loom

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
When he was a Marine Corps pilot in the 1970's, Michael J. Quiello learned to appreciate the teamwork necessary to take off from or land a plane safely on a rolling, pitching aircraft carrier. In his subsequent 19 years as a pilot for Delta Air Lines, Mr. Quiello, who is now Delta's system manager for international operations, has been equally impressed by the teamwork necessary to make an airport hum. And in his opinion, no large airport functions as smoothly as Hartsfield Atlanta International.
"This is the best airport in the world," said Mr. Quiello, who has flown into and out of such highly regarded airports as Charles de Gaulle in Paris, Schiphol in Amsterdam and Changi in Singapore. 
 With 73.5 million passengers last year, Hartsfield is now, incontestably, the world's busiest airport, pushing the perennial front-runner, Chicago O'Hare, to second place.
But is Mr. Quiello being objective when he says it's the best? After all, his employer, Delta, has its main hub here and, together with its regional subsidiary, Atlantic Southeast Airlines, accounts for almost 80 percent of the passengers.
His praise for this onetime raceway, though, is echoed by other pilots. "There are taxiways all over the place, it's easy for passengers to get around in, and they planned it very well," said Larry Coy, a longtime pilot for Continental Airlines, which has its main hubs at Houston and Newark. "It's just a great airport."
It is far from perfect, however, for with its phenomenal growth have come flight delays, parking shortages and clogged traffic. But while some cities, like New York, have been glacially slow in providing airport rail links, Atlanta has a quick rail route from downtown. Hartsfield, then, may offer a shining example of how an airport can become a giant and help transform a city into a global crossroads. Yet it also provides a cautionary tale about the downside of the boom in air travel. And as more and more people take to the skies, Atlanta and other cities have little choice but to make do with existing airports, for the cost of building new ones is increasingly prohibitive.
"Over all, it's a good airport," said Henrietta Aswad, owner of the Global Journeys travel agency in Atlanta. "But there are never enough parking spaces. They don't have enough spots where you can pick up or drop off passengers. And getting into the airport from the main highway is a nightmare."
Benjamin R. DeCosta, Hartsfield's general manager, said: "We're No. 1 in passengers, and we intend to stay No. 1. But we're also the most-delayed airport in the U.S., with an average of eight-plus minutes a flight. We're committed to changing that."
That will not be easy, even for Mr. DeCosta, a determined Brooklyn-born lawyer who was general manager of Newark International Airport and Teterboro Airport in New Jersey until he was recruited last year by the Mayor of Atlanta, Bill Campbell.
The main reason for the delays is that when Hartsfield's last master plan was drawn up, in the 1970's, it envisioned a maximum of 65 million passengers a year, said John Boat right, a vice president at Delta (which has been a continuous Hartsfield tenant since 1934). The current master plan, not yet formally adopted, forecasts 121 million passengers a year by 2015.
Unless something is done well before then, aviation specialists say, delays could average a half-hour or more, and at peak times departing planes could be backed up as far as the eye can see. The airport's growth, after all, remains rapid. So far this year, Hartsfield has handled almost 3.4 million more passengers than O'Hare. For the first time ever, it also leads all United States airports in takeoffs and landings, its 295,000 so far this year more than 10,000 higher than O'Hare and more than 27,500 ahead of Dallas-Fort Worth.
Traffic will get worse, too, because in spite of predictions that Atlanta would slide backward after its 1996 Olympics high, the city has become more of a destination and less of a stopover. Ten years ago, 70 percent of Hartsfield passengers connected to other flights, Mr. DeCosta said. That is down to about 55 percent, thanks in part to the city's growth as a business center. In addition, though international passengers, especially from Europe and Latin America, account for fewer than 6 percent of the Hartsfield total, they have been growing about 20 percent a year for several years.
Hartsfield has been able to accommodate as many passengers as it does in part because of what Joe Leonard, chief executive of the airline Airtran Holdings Inc. (which also has its hub here), says are its skilled air traffic controllers, control tower operators and "an airport whose superb design has stood the test of time."
That design consists of a terminal building and six concourses flanked by four east-west runways -- the direction of the prevailing winds in the region. Taxiways are wide enough for two jumbo jets to pass on their way to or from any of the 143 domestic or 24 international gates. And the airspace over Atlanta is not as congested as it is over New York and other urban areas.
"Even with only four runways here, compared with seven at O'Hare and Dallas," said James M. Stogner, the assistant general manager, "Hartsfield can get people and planes in and out more efficiently than any airport in the world. We were a hub before that word was ever used for an airport. Delta pioneered bringing a tremendous number of people into a central station and sending them out again."
What is now the airport was an abandoned auto racetrack until the City of Atlanta bought the site in the 1920's and turned it into Hartsfield International. Hartsfield owes its current stature to a blessing in disguise -- the economic downturn in the 1970's, which cut air travel and thus the need to expand quickly to accommodate more passengers.
"That gave us some breathing room," said Mr. Stogner, who has served under eight of the airport's nine general managers. "So we went back and refined our research, this time with substantial input from the airlines."
Much of that input came from Eastern Airlines as well as Delta. Eastern, which shut down in 1991, had the first continuous passenger service from Atlanta to New York, in 1930, and the first international flight out of Atlanta, to Montreal, in 1956.
From atop a hill at the southern edge of the airport, it is possible to see what Mr. Quiello described as the airport's daily "coming together like a symphony orchestra." One day recently, as waves of planes landed and took off on adjoining runways below, Thomas E. Nissalke 2d, the airport's aviation simulation manager, said: "In good weather we can simultaneously depart 94 planes an hour and can land 90 an hour. No other airport can handle as many airplanes in an hour on a four-runway system."
To prepare for those 121 million passengers expected by 2015, some city officials would like to build a second airport -- a project that would face many hurdles. Meantime, Hartsfield is going to build another runway, but the one on the drawing boards is already outmoded for today's jets. That is because it was planned as a runway for commuter planes, and when environmental and legal clearances for the project were approved, in 1994, most commuter aircraft were prop planes, not jets. Though Mr. DeCosta and others hope to extend the runway, some property owners who would be displaced in nearby College Park are opposed.
For passengers, Hartsfield's strengths are its relative convenience and, despite the long distances involved, the relative ease of getting from here to there. But arriving by car can be numbing -- cars clog the approach roads at peak times, and even the 31,000 parking spaces can sometimes all seem to be occupied.
Still, Hartsfield moves masses of people more efficiently than most. It is one of the few American airports with a mass-transit rail station inside the terminal, transporting about 8,000 people to the airport each day and connecting the airport and downtown in about 20 minutes for $1.50. Nine trains make a 3.5-mile loop underground, stopping at 13 stations.
Hartsfield maintains a squad of volunteer hosts in red shirts or blouses who help passengers throughout the airport and a bicycle patrol trained to answer questions. Mr. DeCosta is a stickler for passenger satisfaction and a clean, orderly airport. He personally inspects men's rooms and picks up litter, and he alternates with his deputies in the terminal's atrium each month fielding passengers' questions.
With an annual payroll of $1.9 billion, the airport, which is owned and operated by the City of Atlanta, brings in nearly $15 billion a year to the local and regional economy. About 43,000 people are employed by the airport, its suppliers and concessionaires. "The support the city gives is excellent," Mr. Leonard of Airtran said. "They and the officials at the airport do a nice job of investing in facilities and keeping them up."
Still, the relationship is not always smooth. In April 1998, Mayor Campbell dismissed Angela Gittens, the independent-minded general manager, and replaced her with Mr. DeCosta. Also independent-minded, if more circumspect than his predecessor, Mr. DeCosta says he has more authority here than he had in Newark.
Among the examples he cited was a recent meeting with Senator Max Clelland, to brief him on expansion plans -- projects that are forecast to cost $5.4 billion in the next decade.
Unlike many others in Atlanta's Department of Aviation, Mr. DeCosta contends that a second airport is unnecessary. He favors a master plan proposal that Hartsfield buy the property to expand the projected fifth runway, add and expand terminals and add many more parking spaces.
He also suspects that a change in technology, specifically planes capable of vertical landings and takeoffs, will help make a second airport unnecessary.
And, ultimately, there is the matter of cost. "A new airport is very expensive," he added, "so you would have to identify who would pay off the bonds. That would have to be an airline with deep pockets, and so far I don't know of any volunteers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Runways and concourses are busy at Hartsfield Atlanta, which moves masses of people more efficiently than most. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. C1); A passenger deals with some of the stress that goes with traveling through Atlanta Hartsfield International, the world's busiest airport, with 73.5 million passengers last year and growing. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. C9)
 
Chart: Atlanta's strong growth in the 1990's has helped it recently surpass Chicago O'Hare. But handling all those people has proved a challenge. Chart tracks number of total passengers at Atlanta and the number of passengers at Atlanta vs. Chicago, since 1980.
 
Average delay per flight at 10 busiest U.S. airports, ranked by departures

	AVG. DELAY*	AIRPORT	(in minutes)	Atlanta	8.8	Chicago O'Hare	7.5	Dallas-Fort Worth	6.4	Los Angeles Int'l.	5.5	St. Louis	7.0	Denver	4.3	Detroit	7.9	Phoenix	5.3	Minneapolis-St. Paul	7.5	Cincinnati	5.9	
 
*Through July
 
(Sources: ACI World Traffic Report; Federal Aviation Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (74%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); HARTSFIELD ATLANTA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (57%); ATLANTIC SOUTHEAST AIRLINES INC (55%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HARTSFIELD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (ATLANTA); AIRPORTS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; SHORTAGES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; O'HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (CHICAGO); FINANCES AIRPORTS (94%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL J QUIELLO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



299 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: For Seattle, Triumph and Protest

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 12

 BODY:
When Seattle beat 40 other cities in the United States early this year for the right to host a meeting of the world's governing trade organization, local leaders were exultant. Here in what is often called the most trade-dependent region of the nation, they said the meeting would be a chance to show off Seattle as a world-class center of high-tech innovation and a friend to global trade.
All that may still happen when 5,000 delegates and dignitaries from 134 nations -- including President Clinton -- gather to start a new round of global trade negotiations here next month. Those negotiations will encompass some of the most politically sensitive issues facing the world's trading nations, including rules on agriculture and new technologies. But it is increasingly clear that the largest free-trade meeting ever held in this country has also become a giant protest magnet for a broad array of environmental, labor and other groups that say the trade body is a handmaid to corporate interests whose authority should be sharply curtailed. 
 Three hundred groups are vowing to bring 50,000 people or more to downtown Seattle to picket, demonstrate, hold teach-ins and cause general disruption during the meeting on Nov. 30 to Dec. 3 that could turn the city's streets into a carnival of protest and, perhaps, a morass of gridlock.
It is a sign of how crucial trade issues have become to average people that a meeting once might have excited only policy experts has now drawn the attention of a cross-section of America that includes farmers, fishermen and assembly-line workers.
Already the trade organization has been entangled in spats over items that include Caribbean-grown bananas, hormone-fed beef from the United States, gasoline refined in Venezuela and Japanese imported liquor.
Even more contentious issues loom: over loss of price supports for American farmers and over rulings about what kinds of genetically modified foods countries can offer to consumers on supermarket shelves.
Underlying all the individual issues is a fundamental disagreement about the proper role of the trade organization. Proponents say it serves a crucial role in bolstering the world economy by tearing down trade barriers all over the globe. But opponents believe the trade group is using its power as an arbiter in trade disputes to systematically undermine laws adopted by various countries to promote health, food safety, environmental protection and better working conditions.
It is from those diverse concerns that a vigorous protest movement has emerged. Just how extensive or disruptive any protests will be is difficult to gauge, partly because even the groups themselves, more than 300 at latest count, are not exactly of one mind. Some say they have no plans to be unduly raucous and simply want their perspective to be heard by the trade negotiators, while others are boasting that their goal is to bring the city to a standstill with guerrilla-like tactics like scaling skyscrapers to unfurl huge banners, lying in the street to stop traffic or chaining themselves to buildings and trees.
But the city is already budgeting $6 million for a major security operation, and Mayor Paul Schell, noting the potential for disruption, has taken to joking: "I'm hoping for rain, frankly." While Seattle is indeed likely to get some rain at that time of year, it may not dampen the fervency of the protesters.
"I'm in the camp that wants to shut the W.T.O. down," explained John Sellers, director of the Ruckus Society of Berkeley, Calif., which recently helped to lead what was called a "Globalize This!" training session for protesters at a farm near the Cascade Mountains, outside Seattle.
"I think this is the largest gathering of unaccountable corporate power that has ever occurred on this planet, and it should be stopped," said Mr. Sellers, who described his group as "open to work with anyone who is working for progressive social change on the left side of the spectrum."
In some ways, the protesters have already scored important victories and in Seattle, a city with a long history of union activity and a decidedly favorable bent toward environmental causes, they are clearly generating some sympathy. The local King County Council, for instance, recently haggled over and nearly failed to approve wording for a routine resolution of welcome to the trade organization delegates.
"I was thrilled when Seattle was selected," said Michael Dolan, a field organizer for the protesters, who is deputy director of the Global Trade Watch program of Public Citizen, a group founded by Ralph Nader. "It's almost like they're giving us home-field advantage. There are great labor unions here, great labor energy, all these environmentalists."
The protesters have commanded attention of local news organizations and, in what was clearly a bid to defuse some of the potential for conflict, the Clinton Administration has taken the unusual step of pressing the trade organization's leaders to hold a one-day meeting just before the conference gets under way to listen to the protester's concerns. The President also plans to send several members of his Cabinet to Seattle in the weeks before the conference to talk up the benefits of free trade.
The new director-general of the trade body, based in Geneva, Mike Moore, a former prime minister of New Zealand, was in Seattle earlier this month and used a forum at the University of Washington to concede that the trade body had not done an adequate job of explaining its mission to the public.
"I thought the case had been made," Mr. Moore said. "But I guess we have to back up the truck and explain how we got here. We've never reached out."
Advocates for the five-year-old trade organization and the 1948 framework pact that preceded it, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, say it is helping to bolster the world economy and lift workers out of poverty by bringing down barriers to trade all over the globe.
But opponents believe that the trade organization is using its power as an arbiter to systematically undermine laws passed by various countries to promote health, food safety, environmental protection and better working conditions.
In just one such case, several Asian nations won a preliminary ruling from the trade organization last year after they charged that the United States laws intended to protect sea turtles from shrimpers' nets unfairly blocked their exports to American markets. The protesters also say a ruling in favor of Venezuelan gasoline exporters had the effect of weakening anti-pollution laws in the United States.
"The record of the W.T.O. speaks for itself," said Jeremy Madsen, an organizer with the Citizens Trade Campaign, a coalition of dozens of groups opposed to the trade organization. "It's not something that is beneficial for workers, it's not beneficial for the environment. It has an atrocious impact on everyone but the elite, the very wealthy."
Business groups, clearly alarmed at the attention the protesters have already generated here, plan to organize their own campaign to promote the benefits of free trade. However, as a spokesman for one such group said, they do not exactly plan to rappel down the Space Needle to explain their point of view and therefore may not draw as much attention.
"I think the story in terms of media coverage is that we do pretty well in print, but we lose big-time on the pictures," said Scott Miller, a lobbyist with Procter & Gamble who is chairman of the United States Alliance for Trade Expansion, a group backed by business and based in Washington, D.C. "That will continue to be the dynamic."
Some opponents of the trade organization say the organization has adopted secretive operating rules that are practically forcing critics into public protests. Even when Mr. Moore came here on his scouting trip, he was met with protesters who carried signs that said "Stop child labor now" and "No globalization without representation."
"There isn't all that much left, really, because the system is so closed," said Patti Goldman, managing lawyer of the Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund, an environmental group. "It isn't democratic. There's no participation process for the public to play a role. That is a fundamental problem."
Mayor Schell, among others, is clearly walking a bit of a political tightrope, but he says he simply wants to make sure that the city is a good host to both those attending the trade conference and those who come here to protest it.
"I've been on the other side of the picket lines, and so have a lot of people here," the Mayor said in an interview. "They need to be heard. Seattle likes hosting these kinds of things. We see ourselves as an open city, a center for creative debate.
"Now," he added, "one of the things I'm going to try to convey to the protesters is that they are more likely to be effective if they find the right ways to be heard. People listen better when they're not being shouted at."
Mr. Madsen of the Citizens Trade Campaign, said the protests would be respectful.
"The intention of everyone involved is to have a very peaceful event, or series of events, that really speak to the issues," he said. "The goal is not really to disrupt the city per se. Traffic probably is going to get clogged, it's going to be hard to get downtown. But a lot of that won't have anything to do with us, it will have to do with security perimeters set up by the police, the F.B.I. The potential for real catastrophe is being greatly exaggerated."
But with such a widespread call to protest, and with some groups already vowing disruption, the potential is certainly there, said Walt Crowley, a local author and director of a Web site of Seattle history, historylink.org.
"Clearly the labor movement, the environmental movement, and other interest groups have legitimate concerns and even grievances with the W.T.O.," said Mr. Crowley.
"They're trying to reform a process and the structures for guiding international trade, they're not trying to blow them up," he said. "But they kind of have a protest going on with festival seating, which means you really have no control over who's sitting next to you. And I think there's some anxiety that the theatrics of protest are going to eclipse the content."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesting yesterday against the Nov. 30 meeting of the World Trade Organization in Seattle, were, from left, Sandra Yee, Mooly Lord and Roy Chan, who are part of the group Ruckus of the University of Washington. (Scott Eklund/Seattle Post-Intelligencer); Child labor issues have drawn trade organization protests. (Jimi Lott/Seattle Post-Intelligencer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; ENVIRONMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); MEATS (69%); FOOD SAFETY (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); RIOTS (65%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (65%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



300 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: President Urges Government To Reach Uninsured Children

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
President Clinton directed Federal officials today to visit America's schools and enroll children in a health insurance program that he said had fallen far short of his original goal of providing coverage to five million youngsters.
"It is simply inexcusable that we're sitting here, and have been, with the money for two years to provide health insurance to five million kids, and 80 percent of them are still uninsured," Mr. Clinton said at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Pediatrics. 
 Census Bureau data show that the number of children without health insurance has increased by 15.6 percent since Mr. Clinton took office, to 11.1 million last year from 9.6 million in 1993. The number of uninsured children rose by 330,000 in 1998 alone, despite an exceptionally strong economy and billions of dollars of new Federal money made available to pay for children's health insurance.
Congress created the new program, the Children's Health Insurance Program, in 1997. It provided $24 billion over five years and a total of $39 billion over 10 years, but states have used less than 25 percent of the money made available so far.
"If we're going to bring health care coverage to more children, we have to start with where the children are -- in the schools," Mr. Clinton said today.
He instructed officials from the Departments of Education, Agriculture and Health and Human Services to find eligible children in the schools and sign them up in the new program.
Mr. Clinton said schools would disseminate information on health insurance along with the forms used to apply for school lunch subsidies.
"Millions of parents who fill out their school lunch forms now will have a chance to learn about these health programs," he said.
In addition, the President said, "thousands of Americorps and Vista volunteers who deal directly with low-income families every day" will be trained to enroll children in Medicaid and in the new program.
But children are not the only ones without insurance. A new study shows that 20 percent of all uninsured people are offered health insurance by employers, but choose not to take it. Most of those people cite cost as the reason, saying premiums are too high.
The study was issued today by a research organization, the Center for Studying Health System Change.
Peter J. Cunningham, a co-author of the study, said: "If all uninsured people with access to employer-sponsored health plans were to enroll in those plans, that would do more to reduce the number of uninsured than any of the incremental expansions of coverage that have been passed or proposed in recent years."
Seven business, consumer and medical groups said today that they would work together to investigate ways of providing coverage to the uninsured. The groups include Families USA, a consumer group that supported Mr. Clinton's proposal for universal insurance coverage in 1993-94, and the Health Insurance Association of America, which helped kill the Clinton plan with television advertisements featuring "Harry" and "Louise."
Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, and Charles N. Kahn 3d, president of the insurance association, said today that they wanted to force candidates to address the problems of the uninsured in next year's elections.
Those groups will offer proposals to help the uninsured at a conference in January. Detailed proposals will also be offered by the other participants: the American Hospital Association, the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association, the Service Employees International Union and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States.
A poll commissioned by Families USA and the Health Insurance Association of America indicates that two-thirds of Americans would be willing to pay $50 a year in additional taxes to insure that all Americans had health coverage. The poll, conducted by Celinda Lake and William D. McInturff, also suggests that at least half of all adults would be more likely to vote for a Presidential candidate if the candidate talked about expanding access to health care.
The poll found that the number of Americans touched directly or indirectly by a lack of health insurance was much larger than commonly assumed. Twelve percent of people ages 18 to 64 said they were uninsured today. Seventeen percent said they had coverage now but had been uninsured at some time in the last three years. And 43 percent said they had been insured for three straight years, but knew someone who had been uninsured in those years.
"There are large numbers of people who drift in and out of coverage," Mr. McInturff said.
The survey, based on telephone interviews with 800 adults from Sept. 29 to Oct. 4, had a margin of sampling error of three to four percentage points.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although Federal money is available, millions of children go without health insurance, President Clinton said at a meeting yesterday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (83%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (83%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; STATES (US) HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PARENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CENSUS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



301 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Park Restroom Building Could Become a Wendy's

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Abandoned more than 20 years ago but still quite elegant -- yes, elegant -- an old comfort station in a small South Bronx park would be turned into a Wendy's restaurant under a deal now being negotiated.
It would be the most unusual conversion of a park structure into a restaurant since 1934, when the Sheepfold in Central Park, where the flock that grazed on Sheep Meadow spent its nights, became Tavern on the Green. 
 "It strikes me as a perfectly sensible thing to do, when you have a park, to give people a place to eat," said Henry J. Stern, the New York City Parks Commissioner. "We want to make a live park out of a dead space. If Wendy's at one corner will do it, it's worth trying."
With columns, pediments, arches and cornices, the brick comfort station at Jerome Avenue and East 170th Street looks like a little neo-classical temple set in a grove of sycamores, although the arcadian mood of Keltch Park is easily broken by the rumble of No. 4 trains along the tracks overhead.
"Show me another comfort station with Corinthian columns," said Neil W. Pariser, senior vice president of Sobro, the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation.
Under the pending deal, the Parks Department would grant a 12-year revocable license to Sobro, which would spend about $70,000 to repair and clean the structure and then sublease it to a Wendy's franchisee.
A glass-walled enclosure would be added to the east side of the 1,250-square-foot building, and its open-air portico would be enclosed in glass, yielding a space with about 80 seats. Architectural details would be preserved. The city would receive $21,000 a year, plus 2 percent of gross sales above $1.4 million.
"They are going to save a building and make money during our tenancy," Mr. Pariser said. Wendy's could be open within nine months, he said, serving the many residents of the Highbridge neighborhood who cross 170th Street on their way to buses and subways.
No one involved in the project denies that there is a hygienic stigma to the building. But they are confident that its past will be forgotten by customers.
"We should be able to overcome that," said Esther Y. Yip, a partner in the Wendy's franchise that would operate the restaurant, "but it will be in our operation, our food and how we can retain the architecture of the structure and make it a pleasant place, pleasing to the community. I feel people would rather see us than an abandoned structure. We have something to offer. Hopefully, that will separate us from the past."
Parks Department records are not too helpful on the origins of the structure. They show that a plan was filed in 1934, but the building's neo-classical touches suggest that it was built at least a decade earlier.
The portico led into an office at the south end. There was a storeroom at the north end. Men's and women's toilets were in the center. It has not been used as a comfort station since the 1970's. Mr. Stern hopes eventually to expand Keltch Park a bit northward by taking a slice out of Macombs Road.
The park was named for Rubin Keltch, an ensign who died aboard the patrol gunboat Plymouth when it was torpedoed 90 miles east of Elizabeth, N.J., in 1943. "You can assume he was a kid from the neighborhood," Mr. Stern said.
Sobro, a nonprofit organization charged with revitalizing business and creating job opportunities, began looking for a new user of the park building after it bought a former Chemical Bank branch across Jerome Avenue in 1986.
At first, Mr. Pariser said, McDonald's was interested. That deal fell through because the 12-year term was too short an amortization period. Mr. Stern suggested Wendy's instead. "Their 99-cent specials like salads and baked potatoes provide a quality food at low prices," he said.
Although it is unusual for Wendy's to adapt an existing structure of any kind, the Bronx comfort station conforms in some respects with the majority of units in the chain, as it is a one-story, freestanding brick building.
"What struck me were the arches," Ms. Yip said, referring to the windows, not her competitors. "I'm no architecture student, but there was tremendous appeal to me."
Reuben Sabbagh, proprietor of El Cheapo, a general merchandise store in the former bank, said he believed that Wendy's would be a "winner."
"It's a stunning building if it's fixed up right," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of a column at a comfort station in the South Bronx that would become a restaurant under a pending deal with the Parks Department. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WEN (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722211 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY REAL ESTATE (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); FRANCHISEES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W HENRY J STERN (67%); NEIL W PARISER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



302 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Union Leaders See Grim News In Labor Study

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 12

 BODY:
After years of blithely ignoring labor's decline, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is force-feeding union leaders a heavy dose of bad news: that job growth is fastest in industries where unions are weakest while job losses are greatest in industries where unions are strongest.
The news came in a study commissioned by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. as a call to union leaders across the nation to organize or see the labor movement continue its decades-long decline. 
 The study, which was made public last week and is being discussed at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention here this week, also shows that the fastest-growing metropolitan areas, like Atlanta, Dallas, Houston, Miami and Phoenix, tended to have the lowest percentage of workers in unions. And the slowest-growing metropolitan areas, including Chicago and New York, which has 13 percent of the nation's union members, tended to have the highest percentage of workers in unions.
"In overall terms, the economy is moving against us," said David Chu, the labor federation's director of strategic research and the official who was in charge of the study.
For decades, following the lead of its 68 member unions, the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations took little interest in organizing. But distressed about labor's declining numbers and influence, the federation's president, John J. Sweeney, has made it take a more forceful role, goading and cajoling the member unions to get more serious about organizing.
Mr. Sweeney has said he is worried that as the percentage of workers in unions has plunged to 13.9 percent today, from 35 percent four decades ago, labor's bargaining influence has atrophied, making it easier for employers to hold down wages not just for unionized workers, but for nonunion ones, too.
The study found that from 1984 to 1997, the 30 fastest-growing sectors of the economy, including hotels, child-care, finance, retail trade and airlines, added 26 million new jobs, but only 1 in 20 of workers in those industries joined unions.
The study also showed that in eight industries with the greatest job loss, including steel and automobile manufacturing, four-fifths of the 2.1 million jobs lost belonged to union members. Those jobs were often lost because of competition from imports and because managers moved operations overseas to take advantage of lower-cost labor.
"We're somewhat a victim of our own success," Mr. Chu said. "Heavily organized industries have high wages and benefits."
Despite Mr. Sweeney's calls for more organizing, only a few unions -- most notably the Service Employees International Union and the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union -- have aggressively increased their spending on organizing.
In addition, the communication workers' union has begun an uphill fight to organize workers at Microsoft and I.B.M., while the auto workers' union is stepping up efforts to organize auto parts plants. And with the apparel industry continuing to shed jobs because of imports, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees is making a big push to unionize the industrial laundry industry, having organized 9,000 laundry workers last year.
"It's a major growth industry, and it can't move offshore," said Bruce Raynor, secretary-treasurer of the needletrades union. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; UNIONIZATION LABOR UNIONS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); URBANIZATION (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN J SWEENEY (73%); DAVID CHU (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



303 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Vote Looms, But Debate On Altering Charter Falls

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
When Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced the creation of a Charter Revision Commission in June, he did not deny that a primary motivation was to block one of his principal tormentors, Mark Green, the Public Advocate, from succeeding him as Mayor.
But now that Mr. Green's future is no longer part of the 14 proposals that the commission will put before voters on Nov. 2, Mr. Giuliani, with less than three weeks to go before the election, has been largely silent on a subject he once described as vital to the city's future. 
 Although Randy M. Mastro, the commission's chairman and a former Deputy Mayor under Mr. Giuliani, said this week that the Mayor "has done everything that I would have hoped he would do up to this point," aides at City Hall said they could not remember the last time the Mayor had spoken out in support of the commission's work. In September, shortly after the commission decided to drop a proposal that could have hindered Mr. Green's mayoral ambitions, Mr. Giuliani's responses to reporters about the committee's work grew tepid.
When Sunny Mindel, the Mayor's spokeswoman, was asked yesterday about the Mayor's support of the commission's proposals, she said she would have to find out and call back. She never did. Mr. Mastro did say that the Mayor has submitted a statement in support of the commission's work in the New York City Voter Guide, a nonpartisan publication to be mailed out next week.
"Perhaps he's keeping his distance because he sees what a stinker it is," Mr. Green said yesterday of the charter initiative. But Mr. Green, whose staff spent the summer heckling the commission during a series of public hearings, has himself retreated, literally from the front row, now that the proposals no longer directly affect his political future.
Nonetheless, Mr. Green and Mr. Mastro both said they could not attribute the relative quiet on the charter changes to the absence of a brawl between two major political personalities who have been in near-constant conflict with each other for the last five years. Instead, both said it was because voters in a minor election year with only a handful of races at stake are almost entirely uninterested in the issue.
 "It's not that it's too close to call," Mr. Green said. "It's too obscure to call."
Gene Russianoff, the senior lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a civic advocacy organization, said this: "It's charter revision. You know what I mean? It's like 11 people care about it."
In fact, Mr. Russianoff and a number of critics have cared enough to say vociferously that changing the city's basic governing document is a bad idea in a year when the expected voter turnout will be 5 to 10 percent.
Although some of the commission's proposals, such as banning guns within 1,000 feet of schools, are clearly popular, critics also say that Mr. Giuliani has rushed the initiative through in a high-handed, politicized and undemocratic way. Other proposals, like a cap on budget increases, are seen by opponents as efforts to restrict the City Council's powers in favor of the Mayor. Critics are also displeased that voters will have to approve or reject the entire initiative instead of individual proposals.
Both Mr. Green and Mr. Mastro made promises of increased activity from each of their sides closer to the election. Mr. Mastro said there would be "some public education campaign," although he also said he had not decided what form it might take. Mr. Green said that his side would pass out leaflets in the week before the campaign. But neither talked about the kind of television advertising wars that some opponents of the charter revision had predicted in the summer.
Mr. Green's side consists of a coalition of labor groups, who are positioning to oppose Mr. Giuliani in his presumed Senate campaign, as well as Vote No on Charter Inc., an advocacy group led by Richard Schrader, who went on leave as Mr. Green's chief of public affairs to campaign against the changes.
Under the original proposals, the commission would have required a special election within 60 days if the Mayor leaves office early, as is possible if Mr. Giuliani runs for the United States Senate in 2000 and is elected with a year left in his term as Mayor. Under the Charter's current provisions, the Public Advocate automatically finishes the term of any Mayor who leaves office early.
The special election proposal was immediately attacked by critics who said Mr. Giuliani was engaging in a political vendetta against Mr. Green, who by the nature of his job and his personality has gnawed at the Mayor since both men took office in 1994. Mr. Mastro retreated under the assaults on the proposal, and last month announced that the commission would delay the special election provision until 2002, when both Mr. Green and Mr. Giuliani are out of office.
The City Council has also opposed the changes as cynical and an assault on democracy, and plans hearings next week to urge voters to reject the charter revision.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "REVISING THE CHARTER: The Initiative for the November Ballot"
 
Here are the 14 proposed revisions in the City Charter to be voted on next month:
 
* Imposing a cap, tied to the inflation rate, on increases in the city budget.
 
* Requiring that at least half of any budget surplus be set aside for a fiscal emergency or other need that the Mayor and the City Council jointly decide is in the city's best interest.
 
* Requiring at least a two-thirds vote of the City Council to impose a new tax or increase an existing tax, and requiring a four-fifths vote of the Council to override a mayoral veto of a new tax or tax increase.
 
* Making the city's Human Rights Commission a permanent agency, and incorporating the city's Human Rights Law into the Charter.
 
* Requiring that a special election be held within two months to fill any mayoral vacancy.
 
* Making the Administration for Children's Services a permanent agency.
 
* Merging the Department of Health and the Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services.
 
* Creating an Organized Crime Control Commission to handle the regulatory, investigative and licensing functions of agencies that oversee the carting industry, public wholesale food markets and shipboard gambling.
 
* Requiring that domestic violence services be coordinated through the Mayor's Office of Operations.
 
* Making the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs a permanent agency, and incorporating the city's laws protecting the rights of immigrants into the Charter.
 
* Eliminating from the Charter detailed requirements concerning bidding on city contracts, streamlining the city's procurement process.
 
* Authorizing a centralized review of the integrity of vendors who want to do business with the city.
 
* Creating gun-free zones within 1,000 feet of schools.
 
* Requiring safety-locking devices on legally owned guns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHARTER INC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CITY CHARTERS CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



304 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Urges Pakistani Army To Restore Democracy Soon

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration urged the Pakistani military today to restore democratic government as quickly as possible, but at the same time officials acknowledged that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's rule had been increasingly corrupt and autocratic.
The overthrow of Mr. Sharif is the latest in a series of turbulent events on the subcontinent that have left the Administration fearful that Islamic militancy will strengthen in Pakistan, a poor and heavily populated country that tested nuclear weapons last year. 
 Administration officials said they did not believe that the control of Pakistan's nuclear capacity was significantly affected by the military takeover. Under Prime Minister Sharif, the Pakistani Army managed the nuclear sites and devices and maintained final authority over them, they said.
"The military has custodial control over nuclear weapons," a senior Administration official said. "We have been assured by Pakistani civilian authorities in the past they have control over their release. How this is playing out with the military government we will have to see. We see this as a political crisis, not one concerning the control or use of nuclear weapons."
Pakistan's slide toward chaos as it faced a hostile neighbor, India, which also tested nuclear weapons last year, helped make the subcontinent one of the world's most precarious regions, officials said.
"The last thing we need is a chaotic Pakistan where you have democracy put on the back shelf, the economy in a shambles and we get a Talibanization of Pakistan," said a senior United States official. Islamic fundamentalism has become more prevalent in the Pakistani Army since the military was cut off from United States aid in the early 1990's, officials said.
The Administration said that after a televised address tonight by Gen. Pervez Musharraf, proclaiming army rule, it remained unclear what steps he would take next.
"We want to see the earliest possible restoration of democracy in Pakistan," said James P. Rubin, the chief State Department spokesman. "We hope General Musharraf will set forth clear plans for the restoration of a civilian government in Pakistan."
It is possible, officials said, that General Musharraf may follow the pattern of the last two military takeovers in Pakistan and appoint a government of civilian technocrats to run the country.
Rumors of a possible coup in Pakistan had been surfacing since Prime Minister Sharif, under pressure from President Clinton in July, urged General Musharraf to withdraw his forces from the Indian-held side of the cease-fire line in the disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir.
That withdrawal has been cited by the White House as one of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy successes this year.
But the withdrawal was unpopular on the streets of Pakistan and in the military. Mr. Sharif reacted by cracking down on opposition parties, the courts and the press and downgrading the status of the President.
In September, Shahbaz Sharif, the brother of the Prime Minister, came to Washington to meet with Administration officials to follow up on the July meeting. In the process, he warned of the worsening domestic crisis, a senior Administration official said.
Soon after, opposition leaders began to tell American officials the same things. The State Department then issued a public statement warning Pakistan not to undertake any "extraconstitutional" measures.
At about the same time, in late September, the Pakistani chief of intelligence, Lieut. Gen. Mohammed Ziauddin, visited Washington and warned the director of Central Intelligence, George Tenet, and others that tensions between Mr. Sharif and General Musharraf were coming to a climax, an official said.
The possibility of a coup appeared to abate slightly when Mr. Sharif formally extended General Musharraf's tenure into 2001, but revived again, officials said.
Two weeks ago, the Administration warned Mr. Sharif against continuing his "undermining of democracy."
General Musharraf became the second army chief to be dismissed by the Prime Minister within a year, a situation that the military interpreted as a threat to its traditional role.
The Prime Minister handpicked General Musharraf, a commando-trained, headstrong officer with less education than his predecessor, Gen. Jehangir Karamat, who was fired last October after making unfavorable public comments about the Prime Minister's style of leadership.
The United States cut military aid to the Pakistani Army in the early 1990's after President Bush could no longer certify to Congress that Pakistan was not in possession of nuclear devices.
Traditionally, the Pakistani Army has been a stabilizing influence, but it has become more vulnerable to Islamic influences in recent years. This was especially so as the tradition of better-educated men joining the military faded, experts said.
In the last year, as the economy has weakened, army officers have collected electric bill payments and done other menial tasks to try to keep the country running, said Michael Krepon, the president of the Henry L. Stimson Center, which studies arms control issues.
"The army does not want to run the country but the army wants to be the main repository of power," Mr. Krepon said.
But he added that there were increasing possibilities of the army's fracturing.
"There are eight or nine core commanders in Pakistan," he said. "The army has one of two choices: they could rally behind a guy who is a loose cannon like Musharraf or they could divide."
If the army divided, then the question of command and control over the nuclear devices would come to the fore, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); PAKISTANI ARMY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (93%); PAKISTANI ARMY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ISLAM ARMIES (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUPS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



305 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: COUP IN PAKISTAN: THE OVERVIEW;
PAKISTAN ARMY SEIZES POWER HOURS AFTER PRIME MINISTER DISMISSES HIS MILITARY CHIEF

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Wednesday, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Prime Minister of Pakistan fired the powerful army chief Tuesday afternoon, and hours later the army struck back with a swift, apparently bloodless coup. Troops surrounded the Prime Minister's home, closed all the major airports and shut down the state-run television and radio stations for several hours.
At 2:50 A.M. today the army chief, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, addressing the nation on state television in a tone of patriotic earnestness, said the military had ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and his Government to stop any further politicization or destabilization of the military. 
 He was apparently referring to Mr. Sharif's efforts to strengthen his hold over the courts and the military, and to his success at pushing through a constitutional amendment that had ended a President's power to dismiss an elected Prime Minister -- a vestige of military rule.
General Musharraf offered no timetable for elections, nor did he say whether he would rule personally or whether the army would install a caretaker government.
"Despite all my advice," said the general, neatly attired in a camouflage uniform and wire-rimmed glasses, "they tried to interfere with the armed forces, the last remaining viable institution in which all of you take so much pride and look up to at all times for stability, unity and integrity of our beloved country."
 A military spokesman, quoted by Reuters, said Mr. Sharif; his brother Shahbaz, chief minister of Punjab Province, and the intelligence chief, Lieut. Gen. Mohammad Ziauddin, were all taken into "protective custody."
Mr. Sharif's sudden, unexplained decision to fire General Musharraf was risky; in Pakistan, generals have ruled for almost half of its 52 years as an independent nation.
The firing came only a year after Mr. Sharif had replaced another army chief who had sought a greater role for the army and technocrats in running the country.
There was virtually no public protest against the coup, and some demonstrators celebrated Mr. Sharif's demise, including one group near Parliament House in Islamabad, the capital.
Mr. Sharif, whose party won a landslide victory in February 1997, had become increasingly unpopular because of the deteriorating economy and uncontrolled sectarian violence, and because of Mr. Sharif's handling of a crisis over Kashmir.
The military takeover is likely to have serious international repercussions for Pakistan. A State Department spokesman said that if a coup were confirmed, the United States would call for the earliest possible restoration of democracy and would not carry on "business as usual" with Pakistan.
India, too, voiced "grave concern" and placed its military on high alert along the border.
The deepening political crisis in Pakistan raises new questions about the prospects for restarting peace talks with India. These two new nuclear powers, bitter antagonists who have fought three wars, edged close a fourth this summer over the disputed territory of Kashmir.
Relations between Mr. Sharif and the military had soured over his handling of the Kashmir conflict. India fought intensely this summer to drive out infiltrators who had crossed from Pakistan to occupy Indian-held portions of Kashmir, a Himalayan territory both Pakistan and India want for their own.
After meeting with President Clinton in July, Mr. Sharif had called for the withdrawal of the infiltrators, who Western analysts now believe were mainly Pakistani soldiers. Army leaders, including General Musharraf, saw the withdrawal as a capitulation to American pressure, the abandonment of a rare military victory over India and a humiliation of the army.
Still, the timing of the coup was curious. Only two weeks ago, apparently attempting to quash rumors about a clash with military leaders, Mr. Sharif stated that the general would complete his term. It is not clear whether something happened since then that inspired Mr. Sharif's abrupt decision to fire General Musharraf, who was in Sri Lanka when he was dismissed.
The drama began to unfold just a few hours after the state news service reported at about 5 P.M. on Tuesday that General Musharraf was being immediately retired.
Troops began moving through Islamabad. They seized the Cabinet building and climbed over the fence around the television station. All flights were canceled as the troops took over the major airports.
General Musharraf said in his speech that as he tried to return to Pakistan from Sri Lanka, his commercial flight, short of fuel, was ordered to land outside of Pakistan, endangering the lives of all the passengers.
"Thanks be to Allah, this evil design was thwarted through speedy army action," said the general, whose flight landed in Karachi.
Mr. Sharif's home was cordoned off and the road to it blocked. There were also reports that the Information Minister, Mushahid Hussain; the Foreign Minister, Sartaj Aziz, and the Kashmir Affairs Minister, Majid Malik, were under house arrest.
As accounts of the army's takeover of Government buildings began to come in from witnesses, there was confusion about exactly what was going on.
Telephone calls to Government and army spokesmen in Islamabad rang unanswered. The television station went dark soon after announcing that the Prime Minister had fired the general.
The first official confirmation that the army had taken action against the Government came at 10:15 P.M., when the state television came back to life and a news reader announced that Mr. Sharif had been dismissed. After midnight, the state television announced that all banks would be closed today.
Then, finally, at almost 3 A.M., the general laid out the reasons for the coup. He said the country was in a state of "turmoil and uncertainty," and the economy in a state of collapse. He accused Mr. Sharif's Government of systematically destroying the institutions of Pakistan.
The armed forces had taken over as a last resort to restore stability, he said, and he pleaded with the public to continue to be calm.
"I have done so with all sincerity, loyalty and selfless devotion to the country," he said. "And the armed forces are firmly behind me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Soldiers on the way to shut down state-run television in Islamabad. Troops also closed the major airports. (Associated Press); Gen. Pervez Musharraf on television explaining the Army's ouster of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. (CNN via Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Chart/Photos: "Power in Pakistan: A Tangled Tale"
A look at some of Pakistan's leaders, including Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, whose firing of the army chief yesterday led to a military coup.
 
OCTOBER 1958
Field Marshall Mohammad Ayub Khan enforces martial law as Govenor-General Iskander Mirza annuls the constitution.
 
FEBRUARY 1960
After becoming Prime Minister, Ayub Khan becomes the first elected President.
 
MARCH 1969
Gen. Mohammad Yahya Khan imposes martial law.
 
DECEMBER 1971
East Pakistan secedes and with the help of India, gains independence as Bangladesh.
 
DECEMBER 1971
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto is handed power by Gen. Yahya Khan.
 
APRIL 1972
Martial law is lifted.
 
JULY 1972
Mr. Bhutto and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India sign a peace accord.
 
JULY 1977
Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, the Army chief, seizes power, arresting Mr. Bhutto and declaring martial law.
 
APRIL 1979
Mr. Bhutto is hanged.
 
AUGUST 1988
General Zia dies in a plane crash.
 
NOVEMBER 1988
Benazir Bhutto, Zulfikar's daughter is elected Prime Minister.
 
DECEMBER 1988
Ghulam Ishaq Khan becomes President.
 
AUGUST 1990
President Khan fires Ms. Bhutto.
 
NOVEMBER 1990
Nawaz Sharif is elected Prime Minister.
 
OCTOBER 1993
Ms. Bhutto becomes Prime Minister again after Mr. Sharif is fired.
 
FEBRUARY 1997
Mr. Sharif is elected Prime Minister again.
(Source: Reuters)(pg. A12)
 
Map of Pakistan shows location of Islamabad: Troops took control of major centers in Islamabad in coup. (pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; PUNJAB STATE (PAKISTAN); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; MILITARY ROLE IN POLITICS PRIME MINISTERS (94%); COUPS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); AIRPORTS (57%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); SHARIF, SHAHBAZ; ZIAUDDIN, MOHAMMAD (LIEUT GEN) NAWAZ SHARIF (94%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



306 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Flak in the Great Hair War;
African-Americans vs. Dominicans, Rollers at the Ready

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
Amid black hooded dryers, maroon floor tiles and walls awash in pink, Ana Vasquez is making her magic. Ms. Vasquez, a 39-year-old hairstylist at Classic II Unisex Salon in Hamilton Heights, alternates among three clients, washing, setting and blowdrying their tresses in less than an hour and a half.
In upper Manhattan -- at 143d Street and Broadway, to be exact -- the Dominican-born beautician has a following. Maybe she's not quite as hot with hoi polloi as Frederic Fekkai is with the fabulous and famous, but her name is known nonetheless. Classic II, a narrow storefront with four styling stations, is crowded during the week and clogged on weekends: standing room only. 
 On this northern stretch of Broadway, hair salons that are owned and operated by Dominicans are everywhere, and inside, black Americans are present in great numbers. The same scene is repeated throughout the city, where Dominicans have made significant inroads into the African-American hair market.
Much like Koreans, who have made nail salons their franchise, and Indians, Afghans and Pakistanis, who have made cab-driving theirs, Dominican immigrants have made beauty their business in New York, bringing with them their own hair-straightening techniques and recipes for home-brewed conditioners.
"They own more salons than any other Hispanic group," said Barbara Gonzalez, executive director of the Dominican-American Chamber of Commerce in Washington Heights. "That's one of the ways our community contributes to the economy of the city and country."
Not surprisingly, African-American salon owners and stylists accuse the Dominicans of everything from incompetence to undercutting with shamelessly low prices.
Yet Dominican stylists have increasingly been able to build up a varied clientele among African-American women -- from bookkeepers to babysitters and writers to waiters -- largely through word of mouth.
Ava Griffiths, a Jamaican college student who was getting her hair chemically straightened at Family Hair Dresser in Bushwick, Brooklyn, swears by the Dominican-owned and operated shop. All of her friends, she said, go to Dominican beauty parlors. "They do good hair," said Ms. Griffiths, 23, a student at York College. "The perms are bouncy."
Joan Mason, a 29-year-old African-American from Rosedale, Queens, treks through the borough to have her hair, a waterfall of dark brown curls, trimmed at Z-2000, a Dominican-owned salon in Corona. Ms Mason is staunchly supportive of salons operated by Dominicans. "They make the hair feel natural, good," she declared, "just like you stepped off the cover of some magazine."
The secret to their success seems to be multifaceted. Most Dominicans -- many of whom are black or of mixed race and accustomed to handling black hair -- set a client's wet hair in jumbo-sized rollers. When it's dry, they blow out most of the curl. This process, according to Dominicans, is less damaging to the hair than the typical method of washing and blow drying because less heat is used.
Ms. Vasquez also uses two conditioners: one deep conditioner with which the client sits under the dryer, then another that stays in the hair. "You don't fry an egg without oil in it, do you?" Ms. Vasquez said, explaining the theory behind the second conditioner.
Another difference between black American and Dominican salons: Dominican-owned beauty parlors are by and large less expensive than African-American-owned shops. A wash-and-set at a Dominican salon might cost as little as $10 or $15, while an African-American salon on average charges twice that or more.
Statistics on the number of Dominican-owned shops in New York are not available, according to Dr. Romana Hernandez, assistant professor of the Latino Study Program at the University of Massachussetts in Boston. But Dominicans, who number a half million in New York City, tend to be more entrepreneurial, she said. "Seven percent of Dominicans own their own businesses" in New York, she said, "compared with 5.8 percent of other Hispanics."
The 35-year-old proprietor of Z-2000, Daisy Diaz, estimates that 90 percent of her customers are African-American. Her shop has four stylists, all but one from the Dominican Republic.
Blanca Rodriguez, a Dominican and the owner-operator of Blanca Unisex Salon in upper Manhattan, draws a large black American clientele, too. Asked if her African-American patrons have a preference for Dominican stylists, she said, in Spanish, "I've heard some blacks say that."
Stylists and owners of New York's African-American salons have been stung by the competition, and aren't above lobbing barbs at the Dominicans.
Theresa Sampson, an African-American stylist, said that many of her clients who fled to Dominican salons had returned with hair breakage. "I don't think a lot of their stylists are licensed," said Ms. Sampson, who works at Marion's Beauty Shop on Astoria Boulevard in East Elmhurst, Queens.
An African-American stylist known only as Ms. Linda agreed. "Their treatments are more affordable," said Ms. Linda, who works for R. Juno's of New York, also on Astoria Boulevard. "But my clients return with hair breakage, totally unhealthy hair. You get what you pay for. I think they're putting cheap products in brand-name bottles."
At Ebony 2000, a black-owned shop in midtown Manhattan, Merna McNeil -- a co-owner -- said that Dominican salons catered to a young inner-city crowd but not to her clients -- professional women. "We treat with more courtesy," said Ms. McNeil, who also accused Dominicans of mixing products. "We don't play chemists here," she said. "We don't cut corners."
Denying the accusations, Rosa Olivares, the owner of Family Hair Dresser, said, "I wouldn't have so many African-Americans returning if I caused breakage," adding that she used some of the finest hair-care products around. Before she purchased her own shop two years ago, she worked in a black-owned shop in Jamaica, Queens. Blacks would come in, she said, asking if there was a Dominican hairdresser available to do their hair.
Many of the Dominican proprietors and stylists said they didn't feel a rivalry with African-Americans. "In fact," said Juana Ramirez, owner of Twin Beauty Salon in upper Manhattan, "when they come in looking for someone to do dreadlocks or braids, we send them to 125th Street."
That's the right attitude, said Adriano Espaillat, the city's first Dominican assemblyman, who represents Washington Heights, a densely populated precinct with the city's largest Dominican population.
"There's plenty of hair around for everybody," he observed. "Unless you're like me, going a little bald."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joan Mason of Rosedale, Queens, travels to Corona to have her hair cut and set by Maritza Diaz at Z-2000, a Dominican-owned salon. She said Dominicans make her hair feel natural and good, "just like you stepped off the cover of some magazine." (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. B8); Ana Vasquez is one of many Dominicans who own hair salons in New York City catering to African-American clients. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BEAUTY SALONS; BLACKS; DOMINICAN-AMERICANS; HAIR AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); NAIL SALONS (72%); RETAILERS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); WRITERS (62%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE ANA VASQUEZ (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



307 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Parcells at a Loss to Prevent Jets From Losing

BYLINE: By GERALD ESKENAZI 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Oct. 12

 BODY:
There have been moments when Bill Parcells must have been as disappointed as he was today. But not many.
He seemed confounded about whether the Jets were going to find their offensive touch. For the second time in his tenure with the Jets, they failed to score a touchdown in losing by 16-6 to the Jaguars on Monday night. 
 Both of those games without a touchdown also were with Rick Mirer at quarterback -- both within the last month. And chances are running out on a Jets season that is now 1-4.
"We've got 11 games left," Parcells said, "and four more losses and we're out."
Perhaps Parcells was contemplating a quarterback change against the Colts Sunday at the Meadowlands. Although he would neither confirm nor deny a change, Parcells does not have many options. Ray Lucas, Mirer's backup, has never started a National Football League game, and Tom Tupa, the punter and sometime quarterback, last started in 1991. As for a trade -- the deadline is next Tuesday -- Parcells ruled that out for economic reasons.
So unless Parcells believes a shift would create a psychological lift, Mirer will take the snaps again.
But whatever Parcells does will make the coach uncomfortable.
"I just can't describe to you the combination of things -- it seemed like almost everyone on offense had five or six plays that affected our ability to move the ball," Parcells said. He also said that only two offensive linemen had a successful game.
"It's a potpourri of things," Parcells said. "We miss a block, we shorten the routes, we throw the ball too low."
The Jets' offensive potpourri was painful to watch:
*Curtis Martin had his best run of the season, 24 yards -- but averaged only 2 yards a carry on his 17 other attempts.
*Mirer completed half of his 38 passes, averaging barely 4 yards a throw.
*The Jets missed 13 of 16 attempts to convert third downs. One failed series ended with boos from the crowd, a sound these current Jets had rarely heard from the home fans.
*Nine of 13 drives ended after only three or four plays.
And yet, said Parcells, "from a defensive-points standpoint, we did all right."
"The special teams did O.K," he said.
Indeed, despite a sputtering offense, the Jets were in position to tie the score late in the game. Jacksonville, now 4-1 and supposedly one of the league's powers, did not put away the Jets.
The Jets approached midfield with fewer than seven minutes remaining. As he has been doing since Game 2, Parcells was calling the plays. It was fourth-and-1 on the Jets' 45.
"We had the offense we wanted," Parcells said. "We had the defense lined up the way we wanted." The play, he said, should have been good enough to reach the Jaguars' secondary.
Martin went off left tackle. But Blake Spence, the backup tight end, missed his block and Martin was hauled down short of the first down. The Jaguars did not score when they got the ball, but they put the Jets in bad field position on the subsequent punt.
Starting from his own 2, Mirer got nowhere. Another fourth-down play -- this one a pass to Eric Green -- was slightly high but playable. Green couldn't hold it, along with the Jets' last best chance.
Asked whether he thought Parcells would yank him following his noncommittal remarks, Mirer said: "I guess there's always that chance, but I'm not going to react until something happens. I felt like I made as good decisions as I can during the game, but it wasn't productive enough. Some days will be harder than others and that was one of those days."
Mirer's main receiver was Keyshawn Johnson, who spent much of the game grimacing after failed plays -- not merely when Mirer didn't spot him, but on blocks that failed and runs that came up short.
"We're not good enough to have mistakes right now," Johnson said today, somewhat recovered from the anger and frustration of Monday night. He was the game's leading receiver with 8 catches for 94 yards, but 2 receptions and 36 yards came on an aborted, go-for-broke final drive.
"I don't care who the quarterback is as long as we win," Johnson said.
And Martin, who is still looking for his initial 100-yard rushing performance of the season, said: "We can't get it consistently. That's what we're all trying to figure out."
 
EXTRA POINTS
WAYNE CHREBET missed his fifth straight game. BILL PARCELLS revealed that the receiver, who underwent surgery on his left foot before the season but hoped to return, had twisted his other ankle during practice. . . . Tight end ERIC GREEN has had two receptions this season -- the longer one was 3 yards. He had none against Jacksonville. . . . DEON FIGURES, the veteran cornerback who last played for Jacksonville, was given a tryout. The Jets' cornerback situation has been problematic with OTIS SMITH out for the season, KEVIN WILLIAMS ailing with an abscessed throat and AARON GLENN unable to return kickoffs with a hamstring pull. . . . Punter TOM TUPA averaged 45.1 yards on seven kicks and is ranked third in the American Conference at 45.4. But he is second in net average at 38.3. . . . Quarterback RICK MIRER is last in the conference in the passer-rating category.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quarterback Rick Mirer, right, averaged barely 4 yards per completion on Monday night against the Jaguars. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS; NEW YORK JETS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (56%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS; NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); 

PERSON: ESKENAZI, GERALD BILL PARCELLS (97%); RICK MIRER (91%); CURTIS MARTIN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



308 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Bank of New York Executive Resigns in Laundering Inquiry

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
One of two executives suspended in August at the Bank of New York, resigned today and said that the bank had unfairly abandoned her in the Federal investigation of possible money laundering at the bank.
The executive, Natasha Gurfinkel Kagalovsky, a senior vice president who ran the Eastern European division of the bank, said in a letter to the chairman and chief executive officer, Thomas A. Renyi, that "not once during this investigation, with all the media it has had, has the bank seen fit to publicly or privately defend me and let it be known that there is not one negative thing to say about me." 
 A spokesman for the bank declined to comment except to say that the bank had a copy of the letter and that "we acknowledge the resignation and wish her well."
Law enforcement authorities here and abroad have been examining the suspicious movement of $7.5 billion from Russia through a handful of accounts at the bank since 1996. Although much of that money was apparently related to schemes to avoid taxes and duties, investigators have said they believe that a significant part of the funds may have derived from illicit activities in Russia.
Ms. Kagalovsky, who is living in London with her husband and also has a home in New York, has not been charged with wrongdoing by any law enforcement agency. Last week, a Federal grand jury indictment was unsealed in Manhattan that charged three others, a former Bank of New York executive, Lucy Edwards; her husband, Peter Berlin, and a business associate, Aleksey Volkov, with running an illegal wire-transfer business in New York through three companies, including the Benex International Company and Becs International L.L.C.
Ms. Edwards, who worked for Ms. Kagalovsky at the bank, was suspended by the bank on Aug. 18, after press inquiries about the Federal investigation. The bank dismissed Ms. Edwards shortly after her suspension for what the bank called "gross misconduct."
Investigators have focused on Ms. Kagalovsky not only because she supervised Ms. Edwards, but also because she played a leading role in securing business for the bank in Russia. Many bank customers in Russia were large banks that collapsed in the wake of the financial crisis there last year. The Russian banks have been criticized for freewheeling ways. One, Bank Menatep, was overseen by Ms. Kagalovsky's husband, Konstantin Kagalovsky, the bank's former vice chairman.
But Ms. Kagalovsky's lawyer, Stanley Arkin, said beyond innuendo surrounding the Kagalovskys' relationship, investigators have no grounds to be suspicious of his client.
Mr. Arkin said Ms. Kagalovsky is not a target of the Federal investigation and is not formally cooperating with it, but said she is prepared to answer any questions posed to her. "We have nothing to hide," he said.
Moreover, Mr. Arkin added, the Benex and Becs accounts under scrutiny were not opened in Ms. Kagalovsky's division and were not under her supervision. The accounts, according to the indictment, were controlled by Ms. Edwards and Mr. Berlin. But the bank declined to say who supervised the accounts.
People with knowledge of the investigation said the Bank of New York was not preparing to discharge Ms. Kagalovsky. Mr. Arkin said there were no legal reasons behind her decision to resign. He said the decision was based on the desire to move on professionally and leave a bank that refused to support her.
In her letter, Ms. Kagalovsky said she has been "living in professional limbo" and "subjected to painful baseless rumor arising out of the federal investigation." She said the bank's abandonment of her had left her to "swing in the wind."
The United States Attorney's Office in Manhattan and the Federal Bureau of Investigation declined to comment on Ms. Kagalovsky's resignation. The bank has not been charged with wrongdoing and has been cooperating with the inquiry.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natasha Gurfinkel Kagalovksy, who resigned yesterday. (Kommersant)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (88%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (73%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BERLIN, GERMANY (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK MENATEP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (88%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (73%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BERLIN, GERMANY (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING; BANKS AND BANKING; ETHICS INVESTIGATIONS (92%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); GRAND JURY (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); WIRE TRANSFERS (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); ETHICS (73%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; KAGALOVSKY, NATASHA GURFINKEL; EDWARDS, LUCY THOMAS A RENYI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



309 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: CON EDISON BUYING A NEIGHBOR UTILITY FOR $3.29 BILLION

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
The Consolidated Edison Company agreed last night to buy Northeast Utilities for $3.29 billion in cash and stock, according to people close to the talks, in a deal that could eventually bring cheaper power to its customers.
The deal, which will give Con Edison access to lower-cost electricity, is the company's biggest move so far to protect its base of three million customers, who will be able to buy power at lower rates from outside companies as New York deregulates its utility market. Con Edison will raise its customer base to 4.7 million and extend its reach as far north as New Hampshire. 
 The transaction, which could be announced as early as today, is also a move to become more competitive in the fast-paced environment of deregulation, which allows customers to choose their provider of electricity. Northeast, the largest utility in New England in terms of customers, has been aggressively preparing for the new era in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, which are in various stages of deregulation.
Though Northeast had to spin off its power-generating plants as part of the process, it has bought plants -- including some it previously owned -- and built up a source of cheap power, which Con Edison could sell to its customers, possibly lowering their rates eventually. Northeast has also built an organization to market that power throughout the region.
And in a sign of the perceived low value of nuclear power plants, the deal values Northeast at a higher price if it sells two units of its Millstone nuclear plant in Connecticut.
Dale Bryk, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group, said that the transaction could be positive for consumers and environmentalist because it could result in a fresh evaluation of the Millstone nuclear complex independent of Northeast Utilities.
And Ashok Gupta, an energy expert with the council in New York, said, "These mergers are necessary, and they are going to, over time, provide economic efficiency gains that are helpful to consumers."
Deregulation has moved slowly for residential customers so far because the companies that want to market power have not been able to make much money in the early stages, but more players are expected in the future.
Most residential customers have already begun to benefit through rate cuts. For example, Con Edison agreed to cut its rates 10 percent under New York's order to deregulate in 1997. Even though a part of Con Edison's customer base is open to competition, few companies have been aggressive in marketing because it is difficult to make a profit selling to small customers. But as more Con Edison customers are made available to outside companies, the profitability will improve and alternate suppliers should offer further cuts in the cost of electricity. New York's utility market is expected to be fully deregulated by 2002.
The reductions will not be large, however. The cost of power makes up only a portion of an average residential bill, which is about $50 a month. Most charges actually cover the cost of delivery, and those charges will remain regulated. New Yorkers, however, can expect an aggressive marketing pitch from the subsidiaries of the merged Con Edison and Northeast Utilities, which are competing with other marketers.
Under terms of the deal, which the boards of both companies approved yesterday, Con Edison, based in Manhattan, will pay $25 a share in cash and stock for the outstanding shares of Northeast, based in Berlin, Conn. An additional $1 a share will be paid if units 2 and 3 of Millstone are sold.
Millstone has had one of the nation's most troubled histories for a nuclear plant. Unit 1 of Millstone is to be retired and decommissioned. The other two units cost Northeast dearly, with huge expenses for maintenance and the cost of buying expensive power when they were not operating. In 1997 and 1998, the utility had large losses because of its troubles and suspended its dividend for four years. But Northeast has put a lot of its troubles behind it and has seen its earnings recover. It plans to reinstate its dividend in December.
The two operating nuclear units have been put up for sale but are expected to bring low offers, if any. Some analysts said that should mean that Northeast will sell them at a loss. But the sale of the plants is important to Con Edison, which analysts said did not want to acquire more nuclear plants.
Shares of Northeast Utilities rose 12.5 cents yesterday, to $21.25, while Con Edison fell 75 cents, to $36.4375.
The people close to the deal said the two utilities expected savings of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion over the next 10 years. Whether there will be layoffs has yet to be determined, people close to the deal said.
Eugene R. McGrath, the chairman and chief executive of Con Edison, will have those positions in the merged company while Michael G. Morris, the chairman, president and chief executive of Northeast will become president, according to the people close to the deal.
Mr. McGrath did not have an easy time reaching the agreement. Since word leaked out last week that talks with Northeast were under way, Con Edison's stock has been pummeled on concerns that a merger with Northeast would depress Con Edison's strong earnings.
The deal is the second step to expand Con Edison's reach.
In May 1998, Con Edison acquired Orange and Rockland Utilities for $1.5 billion, adding to its customer base and expanding its reach northward. The agreement to buy Northeast, however, puts Mr. McGrath and his company on a national stage to compete with other large utilities. Under Mr. Morris, Northeast has also moved quickly and aggressively to prepare itself for deregulation.
"They have a lot of access to customer throughout the Northeast," said Robert Rubin, a utility analyst with Bear, Stearns.
Of Con Edison's strategy, he said: "This is no surprise. They are not doing anything crazy." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); NU (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; NORTHEAST UTILITIES CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; NORTHEAST UTILITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MERGERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; MCGRATH, EUGENE; MORRIS, MICHAEL G MICHAEL G MORRIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1999



310 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
In the specialized world of technology, two multimillion-dollar quests for more attention.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
TWO specialized high-technology magazines are waging multimillion-dollar campaigns to broaden their reach.
PC Computing, which is published by Ziff-Davis, will revamp its content and design starting with its December issue, in part to halt a decline in advertising pages. It is promoting these changes to the advertisers in a campaign that has a budget of more than $2 million and will run through November. 
 And Red Herring, a six-year-old, privately held magazine that focuses on the venture capital and entrepreneurial side of Silicon Valley, is running a $5 million advertising and promotion campaign to heighten awareness of its brand both in the general business community and among media buyers. Besides the magazine, Red Herring runs a Web site, Redherring.com, and a conference business. Ziff-Davis, whose majority owner is the Softbank Corporation of Japan, has an 11 percent stake in Red Herring.
The 11-year-old PC Computing, whose readers are mostly executives who make technology purchases, is changing the focus of its coverage from computer products to the effect of technology on business.
Its new campaign, by Bigmouth, an agency in San Francisco, tries to place PC Computing in the same category as more general interest business magazines like Business Week, Forbes and Fortune.
Through next month, the advertising is appearing in trade publications like Advertising Age and Adweek and through direct mail to existing and potential advertisers. The campaign also includes what Bigmouth calls "rich E-mail," animated E-mail accompanied by music that presents PC Computing's message to media directors and links them to a special Web site that explains the changes in the magazine.
The advertising is a bold tomato red, the color of PC Computing's logo, and the copy is somewhat cheeky. A three-page ad running in trade publications, for example, says: "Like Business Week and Inc. would be, if they offered real business solutions. Like Forbes and Wired would be, if they served some practical purpose. The new PC Computing helps managers boost productivity, increase profits, win new customers and, ultimately, make the cover of one of those fancy coffee-table business books."
Todd Spina, the executive creative director of Bigmouth, said, "We put up the names of the competition to put PC Computing in the same space as Forbes, Fortune and Fast Company and to move them away from PC World."
The campaign for Red Herring, designed by Swirl, another agency in San Francisco, consists of print and radio advertising that will run through December. Some print ads, geared toward advertisers, are appearing in trade publications. Others, intended to attract new readers and Web site visitors, are running in The Wall Street Journal, USA Today, The Economist, Wired and Forbes.
In addition, four 30-second radio ads are being broadcast in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco.
One print ad, created for prospective subscribers and Web site visitors, says, "Now that business has been turned on its head, maybe it's time you used ours." Another says: "Even leaders are led. In today's dynamic business world, no one succeeds alone. You need information and insight that translate into real action. You need Red Herring."
Eric Roos, a partner at Swirl, said, "Everyone's jumped on the Internet bandwagon, but Red Herring built the bandwagon."
"Red Herring is not trendy," he added. "It's not about hype. It provides high-minded, clear business information as it relates to the world of technology."
Linda Kopp, a senior managing editor of Simba Information, a division of Primedia that tracks computer magazines, suggested that Ziff-Davis was refashioning PC Computing because it had recently lost a significant amount of advertising to general business publications. According to Adscope in Eugene, Ore., which follows advertising for high-technology companies, PC Computing's total ad pages fell to 2,625 last year from 3,056 in 1995. Pages are down almost 20 percent for the first nine months of 1999 compared with those in the corresponding period a year earlier.
"The traditional computer trade press has had a tough time of late attracting advertising pages," Ms. Kopp said. "It's natural for them to look at how to get a piece of the pie that used to be theirs back again."
Michael Hiatt, who is the vice president for media services at Blain Olsen White Gurr Advertising in Salt Lake City and the publishing director of Mediadirector.com, a Web site for media directors with high-technology clients, called PC Computing's ad campaign "a bit overstated."
"But there is a story for them to tell," he added. "The proof will be in the execution, and in their ability to transcend gizmos, PC's, how fast PC's are."
Sam Whitmore, editor of Mediasurvey.com, an on-line newsletter that tracks technology publications, said Ziff-Davis had no choice but to refocus PC Computing. "They don't have a title in the hottest part of the publishing business, which talks about new opportunities in the Internet economy," he said. "They're really late to the game."
He also suggested that Red Herring needed to market itself aggressively. If it does not, he warned, it risks "getting its lunch eaten by everybody from Upside to the new Time publication on technology."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PC COMPUTING (MAGAZINE); RED HERRING (MAGAZINE) SOFTBANK CORP (83%); FORBES INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PC COMPUTING (MAGAZINE); RED HERRING (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); AWARENESS MARKETING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); BRAND EQUITY (69%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



311 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
TURKEY: FORBIDDEN TO LEAVE -- A woman from a religion-oriented party was forbidden to leave the country while a prosecutor draws up charges of subversion against her. The politician, Merve Kavakci, was elected to Parliament this year but forbidden to take the oath of office because she insisted on wearing her Muslim head scarf. Later, after it was discovered that she had failed to disclose she held an American passport, she was stripped of her Turkish citizenship.
 Stephen Kinzer (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: ULSTER TALKS IN LONDON -- The leaders of Northern Ireland's political parties taking part in the peace settlement review under former Senator George J. Mitchell are meeting for two days at an undisclosed location in the London area under an agreement not to speak with reporters in an effort to help focus efforts to break the stalemate.
 Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: 'BLOODY SUNDAY' ANONYMITY -- The inquiry into the Bloody Sunday killing of 14 civil rights protesters by paratroopers in Londonderry 27 years ago granted anonymity to all soldiers present at the shootings. Relatives of the dead said they deplored the decision, but a Ministry of Defense spokesman said, "It provides a crucial measure of protection for all military witnesses who could have been subjected to the threat of terrorist reprisal."
 Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BELGIUM: 6 MORE APPLY TO EUROPE -- In a move to accelerate the expansion of the 15-nation European Union, the executive commission in Brussels proposed that six more nations be allowed to start membership negotiations. Talks are under way with Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Slovenia and Malta. The commission has now agreed to consider eventual membership for Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta.
 Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
GREECE: DEPORTED CHRISTIANS WELCOMED -- The Government announced it would welcome a group of 25 Christian pilgrims, 18 of them Irish, who were deported from Israel as a doomsday cult and then refused entry to Cyprus. A spokesman for the group denied they planned a mass suicide attempt in Bethlehem.
 (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: ZHIRINOVSKY'S NEW BLOC -- Vladimir Zhirinovsky set up a new bloc to run for Parliament after his Liberal Democratic Party was barred from December elections. Facing an Oct. 24 registration deadline, Mr. Zhirinovsky had a congress of two political parties with which he is closely associated form the Zhirinovsky Bloc, which will submit its papers today.
 (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
SYRIA: PESSIMISM ON TALKS -- An official newspaper voiced pessimism over the prospects of an Israeli-Syrian peace, accusing the Israeli Prime Minister, Ehud Barak, of having "blocked all the routes" that might lead to the resumption of talks. The Syrian Government welcomed Mr. Barak's election last May, but the mood has turned much darker because Mr. Barak has refused to endorse what Syria says is a previous Israeli commitment to withdraw fully from the Golan Heights.
 Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
ISRAEL: PRISONER PACT -- Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have agreed on the release of more Palestinians jailed for anti-Israeli acts, negotiators said, overcoming an obstacle that had hindered the revived peace talks. The prisoner release, the second under a September agreement, was to have taken place last Friday. It was postponed when the sides could not agree on a list of prisoners, who are now scheduled for release tomorrow.
 (AP)

AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: FISHERS STRIKE -- More than 5,000 west coast fishers and fishery workers have gone on strike, forcing factories to halt processing of pilchards and anchovies and threatening export supplies. Workers have been locked in a dispute over a wage increase, with management offering 7.5 percent and the Food and Allied Workers Union demanding 10.5 percent.
 Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
CHINA: CULT LEADER EXECUTED -- The leader of the outlawed Supreme Deity cult has been executed in Hunan Province, the official newspaper Legal Daily reported. Liu Jiaguo was found guilty of raping 11 women, including two under 14, and defrauding members of the cult he founded in 1993.
 (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: PERONIST PICKS UP -- A Gallup poll of 1,537 people suggests Gov. Eduardo Duhalde of Buenos Aires, the presidential candidate of the governing Justicialist Party, is gaining strength before the Oct. 24 election, but but remains far behind the Buenos Aires Mayor, Fernando de la Rua, left. Mr. de la Rua, of the Alianza coalition, leads by 12 points compared with 19 points a month ago. Mr. de la Rua has 43 percent support, Mr. Duhalde 31 percent and former Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo 10 percent. The poll had a margin of error of 3 to 4 percentage points.
 Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
UNITED NATIONS
 
ANNAN IN KOSOVO -- Secretary General Kofi Annan made his first trip to Kosovo just two days after a grim reminder of ethnic hatred in the region -- the killing of a United Nations worker who angered ethnic Albanians by speaking to them in Serbo-Croatian. Mr. Annan met with ethnic Albanian and Serbian leaders.
 (AP)
 
5 U.N. WORKERS SEIZED IN GEORGIA -- A day after two United Nations relief officials were killed in Burundi by an armed gang that raided a refugee camp, five United Nations military observers and two other employees accompanying them were taken hostage in Abkhazia, a province trying to secede from Georgia.
 Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); MALTA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CYPRUS (79%); ROMANIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); POLAND (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); MALTA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CYPRUS (79%); ROMANIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BULGARIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); POLAND (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WITNESSES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); DENATURALIZATION (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); DEPORTATION (62%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (69%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



312 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The Uses of a Coup

BYLINE: By Robert C. McFarlane; Robert C. McFarlane was national security adviser to President Ronald Reagan from 1983 to 1985.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Governing Pakistan is a near-impossible task. Consider the daunting realities: 25 percent literacy; 70 percent of the gross domestic product devoted to defense or debt service; one million refugees from the war in Afghanistan still living in Pakistan; a home-grown terrorist cadre being trained in local religious schools sponsored by neighboring Muslim countries; Afghan-based drug trafficking; the constant threat that the 40-year, often violent confrontation with nuclear-armed India could spin out of control, and a stagnant economy with virtually no renewal conceivable for years.
Pakistan has the superficial trappings of a democratic system -- a parliament, courts and an elected government. But in fact it is a feudal cabal, now with nuclear weapons, in which a few families struggle with one another to achieve absolute power and are inevitably, in Lord Acton's phrase, corrupted absolutely. Four times in the past 10 years, elected governments have been brought down by popular outrage over corruption or ineptitude or both. The military has governed Pakistan for almost half its 50-year history -- by most accounts the more stable and prosperous half. 
 The current parlous conditions, combined with political history, call into question whether democracy can function at this stage of Pakistan's development. Yet there is a basis for hope. Historically, the Indus basin has been prosperous. And while Pakistan has suffered 40 years of brain drain, many well-educated expatriates would return and work to build a functioning state if there were a serious prospect for civil stability. Indeed, for a brief period in 1993, the country benefited from the selfless and enlightened leadership of a Pakistani World Bank official, Moeen Qureshi, who was appointed as an interim Prime Minister to break a constitutional crisis. But if Pakistan is to emerge from its current state of collapse, we must face several realities.
In the short term, military control is inevitable and in Pakistan's interest. The army can restore order and should do so by putting in place a temporary edict of martial law with accompanying restrictions on public assembly. But military rule presents both a blessing and a risk. Pakistan's often violent standoff with India in the disputed region of Kashmir could escalate beyond control quickly, especially in light of the Pakistani army's wounded pride after its imprudent foray into Kashmir's Indian-occupied areas and its subsequent humiliating retreat.
Our own military leaders must already have been in touch with the army commander, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, to urge restraint in dealing with Nawaz Sharif and other ousted leaders as well as with India. The United States should also call immediately for a meeting with leaders of the European Union, China, Russia and Japan as well as India and Pakistan to develop a long-term multilateral strategy for establishing stability in South Asia.
That strategy should include the naming of a full-time emissary responsible for resolving the most volatile political issue, the Kashmir dispute. Such an outside negotiator could serve the dual purposes of finding a fair solution and providing India and Pakistan with someone to blame for the compromises they would be required to make. The strategy must also involve committing World Bank and commercial financing for roads, railroads, ports and other improvements to stimulate growth in both countries. Without a credible promise that life will get better for the average citizen, it will be difficult to achieve acceptance of a Kashmir settlement.
It will be necessary, too, to arrange arms control talks between India and Pakistan, together with talks to put in place measures for stable deterrence: hot lines, risk reduction centers and credible verification measures. The United States must also be prepared to make commitments to both countries concerning how we would respond to a threat of conflict between them.
The world has a huge stake in restraining the centrifugal forces at play in both India and Pakistan. But if efforts to help are to be taken seriously, they must involve a genuine long-term commitment by the great powers, backed by financial resources, to bring these two enemies to a modus vivendi.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Hendrik Drescher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC WEAPONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LITERACY RATES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); RELIGION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (56%); 

PERSON: MCFARLANE, ROBERT C PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



313 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Can Nissan Turn on a Centime?;
Trying to Revamp a Company and a Corporate Culture

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Carlos Ghosn, the foreign executive charged with jump-starting the Nissan Motor Company, has a favorite joke: A fabulously wealthy man -- "rich, successful beyond measure, big ranch with a big lake and mountains, you know, a little obnoxious" -- shows a group of visitors a vast swimming pool stocked with crocodiles and alligators.
He tells them he will give the one who jumps in anything he asks for. Everyone laughs, but as they walk away, they hear a splash and turn to see a man furiously flailing his way across the pool, hungry reptiles in hot pursuit. 
 Miraculously, the man makes it to the other side and scrambles out. His host congratulates him and asks what he wants. Sputtering, the daredevil replies, "I just want to know who pushed me in."
The moral, as Mr. Ghosn sees it: "You do incredible things when you're forced to." And Mr. Ghosn (pronounced gohn) will have to pull off the equivalent of that swim to get Nissan up and running competitively again.
It is Nissan itself that must pull off "incredible things," he said, referring to the much-awaited reorganization plan he will announce on Monday. He came willingly to Nissan from Renault S.A., he noted -- he wasn't pushed. In fact, he was one of the most vocal advocates of the deal that gave the French car company a 37 percent stake in its far-larger Japanese rival.
Still, the joke also applies to Mr. Ghosn, 45, and his efforts to pull off perhaps the toughest turnaround ever. "I'm very aware," he said, "that if we don't succeed, not only is it bad for Nissan and bad for Renault, it will be bad for me personally."
Not only must he restore profitability to a lumbering, heavily indebted company that has not made money on its core operations in years, he must do so under circumstances radically different from those he has faced in past corporate overhauls.
For starters, although the Brazilian-born Mr. Ghosn is fluent in Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, French and English, he speaks only elementary Japanese -- the sole language of most Nissan employees.
Nor can he fully use many of the tools of corporate change that are popular in the West. Layoffs are still anathema here. Closing plants is considered a symbol of failure. Outsourcing is rare, and the concept of pay for performance, not seniority, has only begun to catch on.
Yet without taking bold steps to reorient Nissan, still staggering under an astounding debt load with domestic sales sliding, Mr. Ghosn will almost assuredly fail. "I'm playing big for the company, I'm playing big for myself," he said. "I cannot make compromises."
His track record has won him a honeymoon so far at the company, where he officially took over as chief operating officer in July. "My biggest asset right now is credibility," he said, echoing the sentiments of several analysts.
Much of their faith rests on his role in steering Renault, long the butt of jokes on the international car scene, to a surprising and solid recovery with a plan to slice $3.5 billion in costs by 2000. That plan included a plant closing in Belgium that eliminated 2,700 jobs and a big reduction in the number of parts suppliers.
Less famously, in the seven years he ran Groupe Michelin's North American operations, he restored it to profitability, regaining the confidence of dealers who had all but given up on it.
During both turnarounds, Mr. Ghosn earned respect for setting easy-to-measure targets and hitting them. "At each meeting with me, Ghosn meticulously reviewed his projections and comments from the previous interview to measure how closely on target he had been," Lloyd Stoyer wrote in the industry trade magazine Modern Tire Dealer in 1996, when Mr. Ghosn left Michelin for Renault. "Almost always, they were amazingly close. If not, he explained why."
His plans for Renault have proved more effective than anticipated, and the betting among analysts is that Mr. Ghosn will use a similar blueprint for Nissan.
Union representatives expect the overhaul to include big changes in Nissan's relationships with suppliers, with fewer winning business in the future and doing so only if they offer globally competitive prices. Nissan, in fact, is already pushing suppliers to merge to create economies of scale.
But analysts say Nissan's best opportunity for paring fat is in personnel costs. That has led to speculation that the plan will also include a plant closing, perhaps at Murayama in northeast Japan or Oppama on the southwestern outskirts of Tokyo, as well as a winnowing of white-collar staff worldwide.
Nissan's distribution chain is also likely to face the scalpel. One has only to look at the Mazda Motor Corporation, a Ford affiliate, to understand the savings that can be wrung out of distribution here: In one region, Mazda eliminated 20 percent of its outlets and 23 percent of its work force in a single year, sharply improving profitability, said Steven Uscher, an analyst at Jardine Fleming Securities in Tokyo.
"Measures like these would be unacceptable," said Masatoshi Sakanoshita, chief executive of the All Japan Metal and Information Machinery Workers Union, a tiny Communist Party affiliate that represents 150 workers at Nissan. Nissan's large company-sponsored union refused a request for an interview.
Mr. Sakanoshita noted that morale at the plant where he works was low already because Nissan cut summer bonuses by an average of 300,000 yen, or about $2,800. The sale of various affiliates and joint ventures has also worried workers, he said.
Mr. Sakanoshita, however, had little in the way of recommendations about overhauling Nissan, beyond saying it needed to increase sales to pay down debt.
And given Japan's weak domestic car market and the expectation that sales in the United States and Europe are close to peaking, increasing sales enough to significantly improve cash flow any time soon is going to be a big challenge.
Mr. Ghosn refused to discuss the plan before next week's announcement, and indeed, one obvious change at Nissan since his arrival is the paucity of information seeping out. Even Japanese executives at the company politely declined to discuss plans, an abrupt change from past practice.
But Yoshikazu Hanawa, Nissan's president and thus nominal head, is not likely to be present for the announcement, which may say something about its scope and the amount of internal pain it will inflict.
Mr. Hanawa noted in an interview that he had to fly to France to attend a Renault board meeting on Monday. Asked why he could not participate via video, Mr. Hanawa said, "I might not communicate as well by video; I might be a little shy."
That may be, but his absence at this pivotal event has raised eyebrows and sent a clear message about who will be in charge of Nissan's hoped-for renaissance.
By all accounts, Mr. Hanawa and Mr. Ghosn have a cordial relationship and confer frequently, but Mr. Hanawa now serves largely as the company's ambassador and leaves day-to-day management to his new sidekick.
In the aftermath of the Renault deal, Mr. Hanawa has adopted the role of senior statesman to a Japanese business community still somewhat incredulous about the foreign alliance, and as ambassador to Nissan's senior managers, who stand to lose the most.
He said he was pleased with the Renault partnership, although he seemed somewhat surprised to find himself saying so. "It was a good decision," he said, "better than I expected."
When the deal was announced in March, Mr. Hanawa was clearly under pressure. Nissan was closer to being broke than most imagined, with its banks pushing it to find a new source of cash fast and talks with DaimlerChrysler A.G. ending abruptly, in an embarrassingly public way. The company had no mid- to long-term strategy; it was simply trying to stay alive day to day.
In hindsight, however, an alliance with DaimlerChrysler, roiled now by its own drastic management changes and the take-no-prisoners style of its chief executive, no doubt seems far less appealing.
And even though some changes at Nissan are uncomfortable -- Mr. Hanawa himself said it was somewhat unsettling how fast decisions were being made -- he is pleased with the deal he made.
"If we were totally the same, there would not be stimulus and inspiration between us," he added. "Sometimes that stimulus is comfortable, and sometimes it's painful."
The two men speak with each other often -- "Between my broken English and Ghosn-san's Japanese, the gap is getting closer," Mr. Hanawa said -- but Mr. Ghosn is clearly calling the shots now. He has startled workers by showing up to stroll the assembly lines and ask questions, not only of senior engineers and managers but also of workers themselves. And he has encouraged the use of E-mail, rarely used in the past at Nissan, although language has proved to be somewhat of a barrier.
Mr. Sakanoshita, the labor representative, said Nissan's senior executives had previously visited production lines only for formal celebrations of new-car introductions. He could recall only one other time when someone of Mr. Ghosn's stature visited the plant at Musashimurayama, when Takashi Ishihara, Nissan's legendary chairman in the early 1980's, paid a call.
"Mr. Hanawa seems more Japanese in that when he collects information, it is after it has worked its way up from the factory floor through the plant managers to the section chiefs and division chiefs," Mr. Sakanoshita said. "Mr. Ghosn skips the process and goes directly to the factory floor."
While Mr. Sakanoshita is not at all certain he likes Mr. Ghosn's common touch, even he recognizes that Nissan must change. "It would be hard for Nissan to avoid," he said. "I'm not sure Renault should have been the partner we chose, but it is clear that Nissan could not survive on its own."
Despite doubters like Mr. Sakanoshita, Mr. Ghosn is confident he will have an easier time selling the plan to Nissan than to outsiders. "Hundreds of people have had a chance to contribute to this inside the company," he said. "I've met no resistance and had a lot of good cooperation."
Has he had any fun in the last six months? He burst into laughter, then said it was a difficult question. "It's an intense job, and I like intense jobs," Mr. Ghosn said. "I'll put it this way: It takes up all your intelligence, all your skill, your capacity to listen, your humor, your patience. You are fully used in this job."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlos Ghosn, above, is hoping to put Nissan back, financially speaking, in the fast lane. Below, a potential customer checks out a Nissan offering in a Tokyo showroom earlier this year. The company is burdened by a heavy debt load and declining domestic sales. Mr. Ghosn is expected to announce his revamping plan on Monday. (Photographs by Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Turnaround Specialist"
After helping engineer remarkable recoveries at Michelin North America and Renault, Carlos Ghosn has set his sights on the ailing Nissan Motors.
 
MICHELIN -- (Chief executive of North
American division from1990-1996)
 1990 -- Michelin lost $886 million
 1996 -- Michelin made $566 million
 
RENAULT -- (Executive vice president 1997-1998)
 1996 -- Renault lost $1 billion
 1998 -- Renault made $1.5 billion
 
NISSAN -- (Chief operating officer 1999-)
 1999 -- Nissan lost $273 million in the fiscal year that ended in March.
 Nissan's vehicle sales are slumping.
 Nissan faces more than $18 billion in debt.
 Nissan has a corporate culture that is rigid even by Japanese standards.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (94%); RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (69%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (94%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); AUTOMOBILES LAYOFFS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (85%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); CLOSINGS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); MERIT PAY (64%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; GHOSN, CARLOS CARLOS GHOSN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



314 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Tokyo Further Clouds Issue Of What's Up With the Yen

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan moved today to expand the range of tools it could use to increase the supply of money in the economy to help weaken the resurgent yen.
Japan's currency initially tumbled more than 1 percent in response to the action, taken by the central bank after an unusually long monthly meeting of its policy board. 
 But there was considerable confusion in the markets about whether the bank's action represented a policy change or something less significant.
In a reflection of skepticism about the effectiveness of the action, the yen recovered from a low of 107.96 to the dollar immediately after the bank's meeting in Tokyo to 106.60 to the dollar by the end of trading in New York -- only slightly weaker than the 106.31 rate of a day earlier.
The Bank of Japan has been under increasing pressure from the Government and its global economic partners, notably the United States, to take steps that would weaken the yen, which has risen to the highest levels in more than three years against the dollar.
The yen's strength is threatening to undermine Japan's slow recovery from its worst recession in a half-century by hurting the sales and profits of Japanese exporters.
In a display of independence, the Bank of Japan has shown little sign of capitulation to the domestic and foreign pressure to weaken the yen. Rather, the central bank has been insisting that its monetary policy of keeping interest rates extremely low and keeping one trillion yen in excess cash sloshing around in the system is sufficient.
But the action today seemed to at least be an enhancement of that policy. The bank said it would expand the maturity range of government securities it purchases from time to time, which theoretically could put even more yen into circulation and dilute the currency's value.
Marshall Gittler, an economist at the Bank of America in Hong Kong, said the bank's decision could even lead to purchases of long-term government bonds, something the bank has staunchly resisted in the past.
But most analysts seemed to be concluding that while the bank's decision might be a more effective way of increasing the supply of yen in the system, it was not an about-face by the bank.
"All they have done is open another channel for their money market operations," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. "It doesn't mean they'll use it, and it doesn't mean a change of policy."
Rather, Mr. Feldman said, he read it as an effort by the bank to demonstrate concern about the impact of the yen's strength.
Jeffrey D. Young, an economist at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney who has written about the possibility of the bank adding treasury note purchases to its tool chest, agreed.
"People inside the bank are not convinced the economy is in a self-sustaining recovery, and they're worried about the rise of the yen and bond yields," he said. "They're looking for a way of boosting the impact their policy has, and this is one way of doing that."
A senior bank official confirmed the economists' analysis. "Nothing has changed," he said. "The essence of the bank's policy has not changed, but it has tried to make the appearance more attractive."
He said that the bank had made no commitment to increasing the amount of yen in the system and that he did not expect it to do so.
"Unless you see the bank put more than one trillion yen of surplus money into the market tomorrow morning, it has not changed its policy," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph, "Currencies," tracks the Japanese Yen to the dollar, since May 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE ROBERT ALAN FELDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



315 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Sink on Intel Earnings and Plunging Bond Prices

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply for a second consecutive session yesterday as Intel's disappointing earnings report Tuesday hammered technology shares and a plunge in bond prices dragged the broader market lower.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 184.90 points, to 10,232.16, extending its drop of 231.12 points on Tuesday. The Dow is down 3.9 percent so far this week. 
 Broader stock indicators also closed sharply lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 27.49 points, to 1,285.55, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 71.16 points, to 2,801.27.
Intel, often considered a bellwether stock for the technology sector, tumbled 4 9/16, to 72 1/8. The company, the leading manufacturer of semiconductors, reported late Tuesday that it earned 55 cents a share in the quarter, 2 cents below analysts' forecasts.
The results surprised investors who have come to expect Intel to meet or surpass Wall Street forecasts. Other technology leaders also fell, including Microsoft, which slipped 1 1/2, to 91 1/16.
Traders said Intel's report fostered nervousness about other chip makers, which may face production troubles in the coming months as Taiwan, a major producer of semiconductor parts, rebuilds from a recent earthquake. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index fell 2.5 percent.
Intel also deflated some optimism about corporate profits in general. The companies making up the S.& P. 500 are expected to post average profit growth of more than 19 percent in the third quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. But with expectations high, analysts warn that any companies that miss analysts' forecasts are in line for harsh punishment from investors.
In recent quarters, however, even companies that have met estimates have faltered if their profit reports contained any hint of trouble. So yesterday, the retailer Abercrombie & Fitch fell 6 3/16, to 26 5/16, after saying sales rose at a slower pace than at a rival, American Eagle Outfitters. Investors brushed off the news that Abercrombie's earnings would meet expectations.
Stephen Shobin, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers, warned that unless investors can shake lingering nervousness about rising interest rates, earnings may be unable to drive stocks much higher.
"Wall Street is expecting phenomenal earnings, and that might already be priced into the market," he said. "Right now, investors seem willing to ignore the good news and embrace the bad."
The bond market provided a major dose of bad news. Prices dropped sharply, pushing the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to 6.27 percent. At that level, the bond market can lure investors away from stocks by offering fixed, guaranteed returns.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday, pushing yields to their highest level in almost two years on concern that reports due today and tomorrow would add to evidence that may prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again.
Sales of $8 billion of new bonds by Freddie Mac, the Dupont Company and the Inter-American Development Bank sapped demand for Treasuries, traders said. Rising commodity prices fueled inflation concerns and the dollar erased most of its gains against the yen.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 20/32, to 98 1/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.27 percent from 6.22 percent on Tuesday.
Analysts expect a report today to show retail sales increased two-tenths of a percent in September from 1.2 percent in August. Producer prices, which will be reported tomorrow, are expected to show a gain of five-tenths of a percent last month.
Unexpected gains could increase concerns that the Fed will raise interest rates again.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a one-year bill:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures

	 	Price	94.828	High Rate	5.11%	Coupon Yield	5.41%	Low Rate	5.00%	Median Rate	5.09%	Total applied for	$30,201,667	Accepted	$16,734,077	Noncompetitive	$791,337	The one-year bills mature Oct. 12, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph tracks Freddie Mac Yields, 30-year and 15-year bonds, since July. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); ANF (NYSE) (82%); AFT (FRA) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); AEO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); BOND MARKETS (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (74%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (67%); RETAILERS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



316 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Investors Are Jumpy, and the Fed Is Making Matters Worse

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
WHEN the Federal Reserve policy makers want to, they can still stir the pot on Wall Street. Their Oct. 5 decision to leave their interest rate target unchanged at 5.25 percent but to hint at a future increase in rates has left investors uncertain, has tripped up stocks and has pushed long-term interest rates near a two-year high.
Stocks tumbled yesterday after the Intel Corporation announced disappointing third quarter earnings late Tuesday and interest rates moved higher. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.48 percent while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 2.09 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.77 percent. 
 At the same time, the yield on the 30-year bond jumped to 6.27 percent, its high since Aug. 12 and just below 6.28 percent in October 1997. The yield on the two-year note, which is more sensitive to the threat of Fed interest rate increases, jumped to 5.83 percent, its highest since October 1997.
The Fed policy makers did not say this was their intent when they released their statement explaining what they decided after the policy making session earlier this month. They would not do that. But the members of the Federal Open Market Committee had to know that the uncertainty about the next rate increase would have an impact on the market.
Fed policy makers have been worrying about the rally in the stock market all year because the gains are spurring consumer spending through what is called the wealth effect.
Even after yesterday's declines, the Dow is up 11.44 percent so far this year and the Nasdaq has jumped 27.58 percent this year. Consumer spending has been the driving force of an economy that is growing at a 4 percent pace, much faster than the Fed would like.
A Federal Reserve governor, Laurence H. Meyer, has been talking about the problem of the stock market and how it affects the central bank's interest rate policy for some time. He realizes that the danger of a rate increase to cool the stock market is that investors could overreact, setting off a big selloff that could damage the economy rather than slow it.
Policy makers, he said in a speech last month, "should be alert to the potential that a tightening of policy could have a disproportionate effect on demand, if it induces a reassessment of market fundamentals."
So maybe no rate increase but a lean toward higher rates is a step in between.
"I don't think the Fed is disappointed in seeing the stock market stabilizing or moving lower," said Joseph Abate, senior economist at Lehman Brothers. "A little bit of uncertainty about the outlook for monetary policy is not necessarily a bad thing."
With the selloff this week, the Dow has given back the 4.3 percent rally that started at the end of September. Investors are jittery, although third-quarter earnings over all are supposed to be strong followed by a good fourth quarter. But if the interest rate worries subside some, the earnings outlook -- backed by some important companies beating expectations -- could give stocks a lift again.
Louis Crandall of R. H. Wrightson & Associates said that if the Fed had increased its short-term interest rate target a quarter of a percentage point to 5.50 percent Oct. 5, many investors would have taken that as an all-clear signal for the year. And that could have opened the door for stocks to move higher.
What is adding to the negative environment now is the anticipation of reports of rising inflation in September at both the producer and consumer levels. Although analysts argue that the jumps are caused by the recent increases in tobacco prices and in oil prices, which last month rose to just under $25 a barrel and caused a subsequent jump in gasoline prices, the jumps are still disturbing investors.
The core rate for the September Producer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, is forecast to rise five-tenths of a percent, well above the trend for the year. For the Consumer Price Index, the core rate is forecast to jump three-tenths of a percent, the biggest move since April and well above the trend for the year.
Although economists are telling Wall Street traders that these jumps in September inflation gauges are not signaling a trend, they do not tend to make someone buy bonds a week after Fed policy makers said they were leaning toward a rate increase, Mr. Crandall said. "If buyers see reasons to sit on their hands for a period of time," he added, "the market suffers for it."
In addition, although September retail sales, which will be reported today, are expected to slow to an increase of two-tenths of a percent, that is coming after two months of 1 percent or more growth. And that means the economy may not be slowing fast enough to satisfy the Fed.
Mr. Crandall said that the threat of a weakening dollar was also worrying investors. The dollar is down sharply against the yen this year, but has leveled off recently. But it is not yet clear if steps taken by the Bank of Japan yesterday will really lead to an easier monetary policy there that could end the dollar's decline.
But the dollar, which has rallied for most of the year against the euro, could turn around, especially if growth here slows while it is picking up in Europe. A steady dollar decline against the euro, Mr. Crandall said, would make investment by Europeans in the United States less attractive because the weaker dollar would reduce returns when translated back into euros. That would slow foreign investment in both stocks and bonds here, taking away an important prop for both markets.
But, a rise in rates -- home mortgage rates are near their highs for the year -- and a modest slump in the stock market could help change the mood of investors by slowing economic growth enough to get Fed policy makers less worried about the tight labor market and rises in wages and commodity prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM INTEL CORP (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN LOUIS CRANDALL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



317 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Times Is Said to Consider a New Tower

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The New York Times Company is negotiating with state and city officials to build its third home in the Times Square area in 94 years, a 1.3-million-square-foot tower on Eighth Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, across the street from the Port Authority Bus Terminal, according to government officials and real estate executives involved in the talks.
The proposed tower would enable the company to consolidate and modernize its operations, which are now scattered across six buildings in Manhattan. The company's headquarters are now at 229 West 43d Street, between Broadway and Eighth Avenue. 
 In what has become a routine bargaining stance for many of the city's largest corporations, The New York Times has asked government officials for tax breaks and other incentives for the proposed tower at the Eighth Avenue site, which sits within the borders of the 42d Street Development Project, a 15-year-old effort to revive the area around Times Square. Otherwise, the company has insisted that it would have to move some employees to locations outside New York, state and city officials said.
Deputy Mayor Randy L. Levine did not return telephone calls requesting comment, and a spokeswoman at the Empire State Development Corporation, Maura Gallucci, declined to comment. Executives with The New York Times declined to discuss their plans.
"The company regularly looks at alternatives to provide the kind of office space we need for the future," said Nancy Nielsen, vice president for corporate communications for The Times. "Those alternatives include a continuing renovation of our current building, as well as moving to new quarters."
But one government official who has talked with The Times was enthusiastic about the prospect of a new Times tower. "It would really set the tone for how Eighth Avenue would develop," the official said.
Even if a deal is struck by the end of the year, construction could not begin until the end of 2000.
More than a half-dozen low-slung buildings now occupying the proposed Eighth Avenue site, including an adult entertainment shop, a vacant office building and a kung fu video store, would have to be condemned by the state and demolished to make way for the tower. The tenants would be relocated.
But the environmental reviews and public hearings have already been completed for the site, according to state and city officials.
"If it happens, it would be a wonderful development for Eighth Avenue," said Douglas Durst, the developer who recently completed building the skyscraper 4 Times Square. "With The Times leaving the area, it will give us the opportunity to rename it Durst Square."
In the last four years, the once seedy district has exploded with billboards, neon and new construction. Conde Nast recently moved into Mr. Durst's new skyscraper on Broadway, between 42d and 43d Streets. Across the street, Reuters and Ernst & Young are building new headquarters.
But the resurgence is only just beginning on Eighth Avenue. Under the original plan for the 42d Street Development Project, the site on Eighth Avenue at 41st Street was designated for a huge 20-story merchandise mart. But that project succumbed to squabbling among participants and to the recession in the early 1990's.
This summer, the state was preparing to solicit proposals from developers interested in building on the parcel when The New York Times Company contacted state officials about building a new headquarters tower, people involved in the talks said.
In 1994, city officials gave the newspaper more than $29 million in tax breaks and other incentives to build a new printing plant at College Point, Queens. City and state officials expect that The Times will be asking for a far greater sum this time.
The new headquarters would become the company's third home in Times Square.
In 1905, Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher, moved The Times to a new tower on 42d Street in the center of what was then called Longacre Square, a rough-and-tumble intersection of bawdy houses and prostitutes. He persuaded the Mayor, George B. McClellan, to build a subway stop there and to rename the area Times Square. The tower, now known as 1 Times Square, which is the site of the New Year's Eve ball drop, served as the newspaper's home until 1913, when most operations moved to an annex at 229 West 43d Street.
In 1997, the company shut down the presses on 43d Street and moved some printing operations to a new plant at the College Point location. In recent years, the company is said to have spent tens of millions of dollars renovating its 43d Street headquarters.
But, according to real estate executives, the company has decided that because of technological demands and expanded operations, it would be better off in a new skyscraper.
According to government officials, executives from The Times told them that they would rather not adhere to several requirements for projects in the redevelopment district: neon lights and billboards on the sides of the building and entertainment-related tenants on the ground floor.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Times moved to its building on 43d Street in 1913. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK TIMES CO (95%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (61%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V DAVID DAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



318 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Profit at Apple Computer Beats Reduced Estimates
After warning last month of an earnings shortfall, Apple Computer reported results for its fourth quarter that exceeded revised estimates. Apple executives also predicted strong sales for the quarter ended in December. 
 Apple earned $111 million, or 63 cents a diluted share, compared with $106 million, or 68 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Analysts had expected Apple to earn 45 cents. That number would have been reachable but for the limited availability of microprocessors, said Steven P. Jobs, Apple's interim chief executive. Page C2.
 
Frontier to Buy Planes From Airbus
Frontier Airlines has decided to buy 20 new narrow-body jets from Airbus Industrie, two people close to the negotiations said, becoming the latest airline to choose the European consortium over its archrival, Boeing. C7.
 
Stocks Decline for Second Session
Stocks fell sharply for a second consecutive session. The Dow Jones industrial average decreased 184.90 points, to 10,232.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 27.49 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,285.55, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 71.16 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,801.27. C10.
 
Web Is a Grab Bag of Free Goods
With hundreds of Internet start-ups competing for immediate visibility and rapid growth, giveaways have moved beyond information into products and services that sometimes cost hundreds of dollars. A1.
 
Motorola Charge Linked to Iridium
Motorola said that it expected to take a $500 million charge against earnings in the fourth quarter, a move that would essentially write off its entire exposure to Iridium, the bankrupt global satellite telephone service. C6.
 
Profit Falls Short at Bear Stearns
Bear Stearns posted first-quarter earnings that fell short of expectations, a trend-breaking disappointment that the securities firm attributed to weaker markets for the stocks and bonds it underwrites and trades. The company made $1 a share, but that fell short of estimates of $1.15 a share. Investors reacted by pushing shares of Bear Stearns down $3.50, or 8.7 percent, to $36.75. C5.
 
Paint Makers Sued in Rhode Island
The Rhode Island Attorney General sued eight paint manufacturers and a lead industry trade group in an effort to make them pay for treating children poisoned by lead paint and removing lead paint from buildings. A18.
 
Palm Computing Forms Partnership
Forming an alliance to create a de facto standard for wireless Internet access, the Palm Computing unit of 3Com announced a partnership with Symbian, a joint venture of five wireless phone manufacturers. C5.
 
W. R. Grace to Recoup $3.7 Million
W. R. Grace said that it would recover $3.7 million from an insurance company for excess payments and benefits that were paid to two former chief executives. C6.
 
Con Ed Announces Deal for Utility
Consolidated Edison announced a $3.29 billion acquisition of Northeast Utilities in a deal that puts the utility on a national stage and holds the promise of cheaper power. C2.
 
Japan Clouds Issue of Surging Yen
The Bank of Japan moved to expand the range of tools it could use to increase the supply of money in the economy to help weaken the resurgent yen. But there was confusion about whether the bank's action marked a policy change or something less significant. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,232.16 down 184.90
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.27% up 0.05
The euro -- $1.079 up 0.004
The dollar -- 106.60 yen up 0.29
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Retail Sales
September figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern
Expected: +0.2%
 
Graph tracks daily closing price of Bears Stearns shares since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (93%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); ED (NYSE) (50%); GRA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (93%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); BOEING CO (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); PALM INC (51%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%); W R GRACE & CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (84%); PAINTS & COATINGS (84%); LEAD PAINT (84%); LEAD (84%); STARTUPS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); AIRLINES (75%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); BONDS (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (71%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (64%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); LEAD POISONING (60%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



319 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: In Wired World, Much Is Free at Click of a Mouse

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
For years, marketers have known that one word, more than any other, can spur people to action.
The magic word, of course, is "free." And the wheels of commerce have long been greased with free samples, free trial issues, free toasters at the bank, or free tote bags with every bottle of perfume. 
 But those are Cracker Jack prizes compared with what is happening these days on the Internet, where the slogan is quickly becoming: buy nothing, get everything free.
With hundreds of Internet start-ups hellbent on immediate visibility and rapid growth, the giveaways have moved beyond information, like magazine articles and stock quotes, into products and services that could otherwise cost hundreds of dollars. Consumers can download a word-processing program or a recording of a hit single, sign up for a new phone number to receive faxes and voice mail, or even call long distance -- all without paying a penny.
Some sites will set you up in business with your own on-line store free, if you can think of something to sell that people will pay for.
If you want to take advantage of this costless cornucopia but are not yet wired to the Web, don't despair. A bunch of companies want to provide free Internet access. FreePC.com hopes to give away a computer, too. And if you need to communicate with your militantly unwired Uncle Waldo, postage4free.com will send you a stack of stamped envelopes, gratis.
"You name it, and there is a start-up somewhere that wants to give it away free," said James Breyer, the managing partner of Accel Partners, a Silicon Valley venture-capital firm.
All this comes at a price, of course. Those free envelopes are covered with advertising, and so are most of the other free offers. To get freebies, customers often must also disclose a dossier's worth of personal information for use by marketers and put up with minimal customer service.
Not everyone wants to listen to 30 seconds of commercials to make a free two-minute long-distance call, as offered by mytalk.com. But enough of these deals are attracting enough customers that the free offers keep coming, despite questions about whether there will be enough advertising to support many more such businesses.
Mytalk is hardly striking fear in the heart of AT&T, but other giveaways are roiling certain markets. Investors in Internet service providers are scared by the prospect of free competitors. And even software companies are feeling the impact because so many functions can now be performed on the Web free.
"There are markets that could be spoiled," said Gill Cogan, a general partner with the venture-capital arm of Weiss, Peck & Greer. "After you give something away free, it is very difficult to start charging for it, or even for other things."
The trend is being driven by the ever-plummeting prices on computers and communications, which make it so inexpensive to offer many services that it makes as much sense to give them away covered in ads as it does to try to sell them.
"The general rule is that anything that has a potential for a broad audience will eventually be free," said Joe Kraus, a co-founder of the Excite service, which searches the Web free and now also offers free E-mail, voice mail, auctions, classified ads, chat rooms and a small library's worth of information. Ultimately, he said, companies would rather have consumers' time than their money -- assuming that they can make money from those consumers some other way.
"We are shifting from a retail economy to what I call an attention economy," Mr. Kraus said. "You are willing to give away services or even pay people to use services, if you can get a lot of people listening to your message."
Marketers have always looked to place ads in new and prominent locations, but the popularity of the Internet has given rise to hundreds of new companies with rich backers, desperately racing to get lots of new customers right away, even if they do not know exactly how they will make money.
Many newer start-ups look to the example of Hotmail, the first big Web site offering free E-mail with advertising. In 18 months, Hotmail signed up 11 million customers. And even though it never made much selling advertising, Microsoft bought Hotmail for some $400 million.
Timothy Draper, of the venture-capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Hotmail's early backer, said he was so convinced that free services were the way to build really big businesses that he had invested in a variety of others, including free Web sites, free disk space and free Internet access. "If you believe that the Web is opening up a whole new world economy where there will be a lot of winners, what you want to do is back one of the 30 companies that ends up being worth a trillion dollars," he said.
Not everyone is so sure that the way to make a trillion dollars is to give away the most stuff free.
"There is an unwarranted frenzy around the free model on the Internet," said Mr. Breyer of Accel Partners, who argues that there just is not enough money to be made in advertising to justify most of these companies. "In most cases, if one does the math, the business assumptions simply will not hold up, and the companies are pursuing suicidal strategies."
One site challenging that premise is Free-PC.com, which has to sell about $30 a month in advertising to cover the costs of a computer and its free Internet access.
Donald S. La Vigne, its chief executive, maintains that the prominent placement of the ads, in strips along two sides of the screen, and the data the company collects observing how its customers use the machine, will make the service attractive to advertisers.
"If someone goes to E-Loan and four other housing sites in one week, it's a good bet they're shopping for a mortgage," he said. "Banks will pay a lot of money to find someone in the market for a home loan." Still, the company will wait to see how this idea works on 30,000 computers before it gives away more.
The hurdle for NetZero Inc. and other companies that want to offer free Internet service is almost as high. It costs about $10 a month to cover the telecommunications cost of Internet access. So far the biggest Internet service, America Online, takes in only about $5 monthly from ads per user, on top of its $21.95 monthly fee.
Wall Street appears to have fewer doubts. With 900,000 active accounts, NetZero is now worth about $3 billion, after its public offering late last month. That compares with Earthlink, a big Internet service provider with 1.5 million paying customers, that investors value around $1.3 billion.
Implicit in Wall Street's assumptions is that millions of consumers are willing to make their homes, or at least their computers, look like the logo-covered outfield wall of a Major League Baseball park. So far they are.
"The average consumer gets 3,000 marketing messages a day," Mr. La Vigne said. "That doesn't mean they like it, but they are used to it."
Indeed, these Internet sites are riding a cultural shift, in which more people embrace, rather than fight, commercialism.
"People in this generation are not as concerned with advertising as older people," said Bo Peabody, 28, the founder of Tripod, an on-line gathering place for Generation X now owned by Lycos. "We feel that everybody has an agenda."
Sometimes the sales pitch is very subtle. Onebox is a start-up that is offering free voice mail with no visible advertising. It hopes to profit ultimately by selling a premium service linked to people's home phone numbers. "It costs long-distance companies $100 to $300 to get a new customer," said Bill Nguyen, the company's founder. "Our free service costs less than $2 to provide. If one person in 50 ever pays us, we will make a lot of money."
There are already myriad examples of free services on the Internet eating into lucrative markets. Five years ago, for example, 40 percent of the revenue of Dow Jones & Company's on-line unit came from news headlines and stock quotes it sold for 25 cents a quote. Now, hundreds of sites give those away.
Similarly, it took two years for a company called Jfax to attract 35,000 customers to its $12-a-month service that forwards faxes to an E-mail address. In February, a rival called Efax introduced a service that is similar but free, and to date has a million customers. Jfax was forced to respond with its own free service.
An even-higher-stakes battle is occurring over Internet auctions. Ebay, the auction leader, charges a fee of 2 to 5 percent. But Yahoo is gaining ground with totally free auctions.
Yahoo is getting the same treatment, though in reverse, at its business that charges $100 a month or more for a company to set up a store on the Internet. Now, services like BigStep.com and FreeMerchant.com will do all that without charge.
Another free service meant to bite into Yahoo and other popular Internet sites is Rocketboard, a company that hopes to give free keyboards, with 18 extra buttons that send the user to certain on-line stores.
"The portals now have the ocean-front views, but with Rocketboard we are putting up a building that is closer to the water," said Scott Heiferman, the company's founder.
So where does the free frenzy end? Venture capitalists say that entrepreneurs are now trying to raise money for everything from free cellular phones to free movies to free stock trades. So far, there is little inclination to give away such basic nondigital commodities and services as food, shelter or transportation.
"In the end, someone has to sell something, or it's all a shell game," Mr. Kraus of Excite said. "The car companies are never going to give away free cars."
Or will they? Mr. Draper, the venture capitalist, said the idea might not be as crazy as it sounds. "It's a captive audience," he remarked. "If you control my radio while I'm driving, keep track of where I go with a global positioning system, and maybe do something with my cell phone, there's a possibility you might be willing to pay $50,000 to own me for two hours a day."
And yes, someone has already registered the Internet address free-cars.com.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Web Freebies
These are among the many Internet sites offering free goods and services, hoping to profit by selling advertising or add-on services.
 
Efax.com
WHAT'S FREE -- A unique telephone number that can receive faxes and forward images to your E-mail account.
THE GIMMICK -- When you get faxes, you'll also see ads. Fax number can be in a distant area code, unless you pay $2.95 a month for a local number.
THE COMPETITION -- Jfax offers an Internet fax service with local numbers and no ads for $12.50 a month.
 
FreeMerchant.com
WHAT'S FREE -- On-line stores for small businesses, with tools to create a catalogue and access to credit card processing.
THE GIMMICK -- Site tries to sell other services to the businesses, like long distance service and office supplies.
THE COMPETITION -- Yahoo charges $100 to $300 a month to open a small store on its site.
 
StarOffice
www.sun.com/products/staroffice
WHAT'S FREE -- A package of computer programs including word processor, spreadsheet and E-mail.
THE GIMMICK -- Service and support cost extra.
THE COMPETITION -- Microsoft Office costs $300 and up, but includes limited support.
 
NetZero.com
WHAT'S FREE -- A connection to the Internet over telephone lines.
THE GIMMICK -- The service displays advertising while the user is on line and monitors what sites are visited.
THE COMPETITION -- Earthlink, a big Internet service provider, charges $20 a month for unlimited access with no superimposed advertising and no data collection.
(pg. C21)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROBP (PAR) (50%); ROB (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (53%); ROBECO GROEP NV (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING INTERNET & WWW (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); STARTUPS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); TRENDS (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (70%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL JOE KRAUS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



320 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Anger on Agenda for World Trade Meeting

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 13

 BODY:
A dispute over the agenda that appears to pit developing nations against the United States has injected a tense atmosphere into preparations for the World Trade Organization's summit meeting next month.
Nonindustrialized countries in the 134-member group that makes the rules for global commerce had drafted a detailed list of priorities for the Seattle meeting agenda, determined to rectify what they see as bias in current trade rules that have benefited larger economic powers at their expense. 
 But their two-page list was mysteriously deleted from the first formal draft of the agenda that circulated at the organization's Geneva headquarters earlier this week. Representatives of developing nations expressed outrage, particularly because the coming summit meeting has been publicly extolled by the group's new director general, Mike Moore, as a forum meant for them.
"It was totally, totally unfair," said India's trade envoy to Geneva, Srinivasan Narayanan. "It shocks us, frankly."
While no names were publicly mentioned, the United States was blamed and accused of bullying tactics. "It was too convenient. Every single item developing countries wanted was eliminated," said one aggrieved trade envoy.
United States representatives to the trade group declined to comment on these accusations today, saying only that the agenda remained subject to negotiation.
But a subsequent version of the agenda draft restored much of what developing nations had proposed earlier. Whether all or even some of those issues survive the final draft remains unclear.
Among them are a proposal to weaken antidumping measures, an important American trade tool used to protect United States manufacturers from low-priced imports. Developing countries want a one-year waiting period between inquiries into a product that has flooded the market. The United States would likely reject such a change.
Another agenda item sought by developing countries would reintroduce subsidies to protect domestic manufacturers, made illegal in previous trade agreements. Countries like India argue that subsidies are necessary to protect their native businesses from foreign competition.
Modifying rules for the textile trade is also on the developing countries' list. They want to shorten the 10-year schedule for lifting restrictions on imports. The Americans want to keep the schedule unchanged.
Developing nations also want the agenda to include proposed changes that would delay enforcement of intellectual property rights, postpone a tightening of trade-related investment rules and force pharmaceutical companies to sell essential drugs at affordable prices.
In recent congressional testimony, the United States Trade Representative, Charlene Barshefsky, gave little support for such a wish list, saying that institution of existing agreements is necessary to the credibility of future negotiations.
But comments by a top Commerce Department official this week indicate that the United States may offer some room to compromise, partly because it wants the trade summit conference to include negotiations on raising labor standards among all member nations. This is an important issue to American and European unions.
"I don't think we could get a trade deal though Congress without some kind of concessions," said Deputy Commerce Secretary Robert Mallett. He indicated that United States negotiators may have to put "some incentives on the table. . . perhaps a more protracted timetable for the implementation of some issues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (73%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (73%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); TESTIMONY (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); DRUG PRICES (60%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



321 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Nuclear Test-Ban Pact Rejected in Senate Vote
The Senate rejected a treaty banning all underground nuclear testing in a 51-48 vote that was largely along party lines and crushed one of President Clinton's major foreign policy goals. A1
 
The President said the fight over the treaty was "far from over." A14 

Aftermath of Pakistan Coup
The army chief, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, said in a nationally televised speech that he would soon lay out the army's plans, which could entail martial law, new elections or the installation of a civilian government controlled by the military. A12
 
Congress moved to give President Clinton greater flexibility in deciding whether to impose sanctions. A12
 
Russian Prosecutor Endures
The upper house of Parliament rebuffed President Boris N. Yeltsin's third attempt to get rid of Yuri Skuratov, left, the prosecutor general whose corruption inquiries have crept inside the Kremlin itself. A6
 
The Swiss police say investigations into possible money laundering by Russian executives and politicians have expanded to include Lev Cherny, a businessman with interests in the metals industry. A6
 
Colombia Pledges Extraditions
The Justice Department said officials in Colombia had arrested the head of that country's largest cocaine-trafficking ring and other traffickers and had pledged to extradite them to the United States. A3
 
Palestinian Accuses Jailers
Maher Dasuki, a talk show host in the West Bank who was jailed after a guest on his show criticized Yasir Arafat, returned to the air and accused his jailers of torturing him. A5
 
Fashioning a Ticket
President B. J. Habibie of Indonesia invited the military chief, Gen. Wiranto, to be his vice presidential running mate. It was not known if the general had accepted. A11
 
Legal Status for Unwed Couples
The French Parliament passed legislation giving legal status to unmarried couples, including homosexual unions. A3
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A17-29
 
Clinton Vows to Preserve Federal Wilderness Lands
President Clinton said he would act to protect at least 40 million acres of forest land from road building, logging and mining permanently. A1
 
G.O.P Medicare Proposals
Senior Republicans in Congress proposed restoring some of the 1997 Medicare cutbacks, but said they had no plans to add prescription benefits to the program this year. A20
 
Senate Approves Farm Aid
The Senate gave final legislative approval to $8.7 billion in emergency aid to hard-pressed farmers. A22
 
Counsel Clears Babbitt
An independent counsel said there was insufficient evidence to bring charges against Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt or anyone else involved in his agency's handling of an Indian gambling project. A24
 
Buchanan Near a Decision
Patrick J. Buchanan is notifying supporters that he will make a major speech Oct. 25; he is expected to announce his candidacy for the Reform Party's Presidential nomination. A26
 
Labor Endorsement for Gore
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. endorsed Vice President Al Gore for the Presidency, but without the support of two of the nation's most powerful unions, the Teamsters and the U.A.W. A26
 
No Charges in Ramsey Case
Prosecutors in Boulder, Colo., said they did not have enough evidence to charge anyone with the killing of JonBenet Ramsey in 1996 and dismissed the grand jury that spent 13 months on the case. A18
 
State Sues Over Lead Paint
The Rhode Island Attorney General sued eight paint manufacturers and an industry trade group seeking to make them pay for treating children poisoned by lead paint and for the removal of paint from buildings. A18
 
Racial Disparity in Lung Cancer
Black patients with early stage lung cancer are less likely than whites to undergo life-saving surgery, a study found, and as a result are more likely to die of their disease. A28
 
Cancer-Resistant Mice
Scientists have developed a strain of mouse that is immune to certain types of cancer. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Pataki to Order Changes To Cut Air Pollution
Governor Pataki will order power plants in the state to make sharp cuts in smokestack emissions that cause acid rain and smog, aides said. The move will raise electricity rates by 1 to 2 percent, they said, but will put New York ahead of the rest of the country in the cleanup schedule set by the Federal Clean Air Act. A1
 
2 Killed in SoHo Holdup
An owner and a manager of a SoHo muffin shop were shot to death and two other people were wounded during a botched robbery that ended with a gunfight between the robbers and undercover officers, officials said. Two suspects were arrested. B1
 
No De Niro Navy Yard Deal
A tentative deal for the actor Robert De Niro and Miramax Films to develop a $150 million soundstage complex at the Brooklyn Navy Yard has collapsed, Mayor Giuliani said, though a studio will still be built, but by other developers. B1
 
OBITUARIES B13
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yankees Win, Mets Lose
The Yankees beat the Red Sox, 4-3, in the first game of the A.L. Championship series. The Braves beat the Mets, 4-3, to take a 2-0 lead in their series. D1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Holocaust Memoir Withdrawn
The German publisher Suhrkamp Verlag said it was withdrawing all hardcover copies of "Fragments," by Binjamin Wilkomirksi, after serious questions were raised about the author. E1
 
National Book Awards
The finalists list is as notable for the titles that are not on it -- "Dutch" and " 'Tis" -- as for those that are -- "Waiting" and "Vice: New and Selected Poems." E3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Nobel Award for Economist
Robert A. Mundell, 67, of Columbia University, who helped to frame the supply-side economic theories that strongly influenced the Reagan Administration, received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. C1
 
Tyco Shares Plummet
Criticism from just one investment manager sent prices for one of the decade's best-performing stocks, Tyco International, plunging, which led to a halt in its trading. C1
 
Stocks Continue to Slide
Stocks fell sharply for a second consecutive session as Intel's disappointing earnings report on Tuesday undermined technology shares and a plunge in bond prices dragged the broader market lower. The Dow fell 184.90 points, to 10,232.16, the S.& P. 500 declined 27.49 points, to 1,285.55, and the Nasdaq dropped 71.16 points, to 2,801.27. The price of the 30-year bond fell 20/32, to 98 1/32, and its yield rose to 6.27 percent. C10
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-18
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: A damaging arms control defeat; the truth about tobacco; new risk for campaign law.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E8
 
TV Listings E11
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather A28
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICARE (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMIES (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (71%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (67%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (66%); COCAINE (65%); MARRIAGE (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (61%); WILDERNESS (61%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); FOREIGN POLICY (57%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (51%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



322 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: THE BIG CITY;
Wrestling (In the Mud) With Faludi

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
MEN of New York, turn off the baseball playoffs. Put aside your magazines glorifying babes and gear. Stop trying to win games and get promotions. Don't pretend you're enjoying this so-called economic boom.
Susan Faludi knows what you're feeling. In her new book, "Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man," she discloses that modern men are in "agony." And those of us in New York are largely to blame for it. 
 Ms. Faludi reveals these truths through the sad stories of a representative sample of laid-off shipyard workers, out-of-work X-rated film actors, wife beaters, sexual predators and gang members. She plumbs the philosophies of a militiaman who blames Hillary Rodham Clinton for the deaths at Waco, and a 385-pound football fan who goes to games in a dog costume and barks after every play.
Why are these guys unhappy? They don't have a clue. "The very paradigm of modern masculinity," Ms. Faludi explains, "prevents men from thinking their way out of their dilemma." It takes a woman to trace the problems back to New York's corporate headquarters.
Ruthless executives here have been downsizing companies and shutting factories in the heartland. Now that men can't work in shipyards all their lives, they feel worthless, so they have fallen for the false images of masculinity promoted by Madison Avenue and the rest of the media industry: athletes, action heroes, masters of the universe who win the competition for money and toys and women.
"The male paradigm of confrontation," Ms. Faludi announces, "has, in fact, proved worthless to men." Hailing the cooperative spirit of the W.P.A. -- ah, the good old days of the Great Depression! -- Ms. Faludi urges men to stop their brutish competition and learn the nurturing traits of a good mother. We should link arms with feminists to create a "community where people are knit together by meaningful and mutual concerns." Only then can we move beyond being "masculine" to being "human" -- i.e., someone like Susan Faludi.
There is probably no way for men to repay Ms. Faludi for "Stiffed." But some of us are trying to reach across the gender divide. We are gathering material for "Miffed," a male analysis of women's angst, as shown in case histories like these:
*Paula, a high-powered corporate lawyer with three children, is overcome with mysterious feelings of fatigue and frustration. In her confused anger, she lashes out at her unemployed husband for refusing to do any cooking or housework.
But with his help, she sees the true cause of her dissatisfaction: the corporate marketers that have filled their home with unnecessary appliances. Inspired by her grandmother's stories of the 1930's, she begins washing clothes and rugs by hand, and soon has the energy to churn her own butter. On weekends, she happily declares the entire house her "personal space," banishing her husband to the golf course.
*Foxi, a dancer brutally downsized by Mayor Giuliani's crackdown on strip clubs, is tricked by a newspaper ad into spending $137,000 on shoes at Bergdorf Goodman. Unable to pay the credit card bill, she languishes helplessly -- until her teen-age brother introduces her to a video game called Quake II.
By blasting the heads off vicious zombies, Foxi acquires the discipline to remain at the computer 12 hours a day. She creates her own Web page with pictures from her dancing days, attracting enough visitors and advertisers to make her rich. She celebrates by buying her brother a top-of-the line DVD player.
*Anita, a member of the Moral Majority, blames her feminist neighbor, Susan, for brainwashing women into abandoning their God-given roles at home. Susan blames Anita for oppressing women. Their screaming matches -- "Family destroyer!" "Sexist stereotyper!" -- escalate until a man across the street introduces a traditional male mediation technique.
"Why don't you two gals settle this with some mud wrestling," he suggests.
The two women don bikinis and grapple furiously in the mud, all the while muttering about the forces afflicting modern women: biased media coverage, vulgar advertisements, crude television shows, exploitative movies. Suddenly they stop thrashing. They've found a common enemy: the media! That's why men and women are misbehaving! They've been corrupted by the media!
Anita and Susan embrace, swear eternal sisterhood and schedule another mud-wrestling session. In gratitude to the mediator, they invite him to bring his camcorder next time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Faludi
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: STIFFED: THE BETRAYAL OF THE AMERICAN MAN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: W P I (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEN; BOOKS AND LITERATURE SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MEN (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); LITERATURE (72%); MOVIE RATINGS (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); FILM (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); LAYOFFS (58%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; FALUDI, SUSAN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



323 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
For Bidders, Jets' Value Is in Eye of the Beholder

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The New York Jets, who play in the nation's largest market, lost money in 1997 and have produced modest returns by National Football League standards over the last two years, a prospectus written for the team's sale shows.
The thick, black-jacketed document, a copy of which was shown to The New York Times, provides a picture of a team that lacks the robust stadium revenues that some of the league's most valuable franchises enjoy. 
 Sports-finance experts have suggested that the team could be sold for $500 million or more. But the detailed figures in the prospectus raise significant questions about the real market value of the team -- unless a new owner lands a lucrative deal for a new stadium.
The Jets lost $8 million in the year ending in February 1998, which covered the 1997 season, the prospectus says. The team rebounded with net income of $24.3 million last season, but the figure was inflated by a one-time payment of $16.8 million, the team's share of the league's sale of the Cleveland Browns expansion franchise.
For this season, the Jets project a net profit of $5.4 million.
The estate of the late owner, Leon Hess, has offered the Jets for sale, and so far more than two dozen potential buyers have examined the team's finances. Goldman, Sachs & Company, the investment banker for the Hess estate, last week reduced the roster of potential buyers to about six or eight.
Two of the suitors have said privately that the bottom-line reality contained in the prospectus does not support a $500 million bid.
"If someone told me right now the Jets are worth $500 million, I'd say, 'How can that be?' " said Michael Ozanian, a valuation expert at Forbes.
In an era when many N.F.L. teams bank nearly all the revenues from ticket sales, luxury suites and club seats at new sports palaces, the Jets' lease at Giants Stadium is one of the least lucrative in football. Moreover, the team pays one of the league's highest rents -- $3.9 million last season.
By one significant measure -- operating cash flow, or revenues minus expenses -- the Jets are far below average. This season's estimated cash flow, $11.6 million, greatly lags behind the league average of $19.7 million, according to Forbes magazine. The Dallas Cowboys top Forbes's list, with a cash flow of $56.7 million.
But these are fascinating fiscal days in the N.F.L., which boasts the sports world's most expensive teams. Last week, the new Houston expansion franchise sold for $700 million. In May, Dan Snyder bought the Washington Redskins for $805 million. Last year, the expansion Cleveland Browns sold for $530 million.
What are the Jets worth? Forbes says $363 million.
The Jets are not in financial distress -- not when the team can open the season with a guaranteed $58 million in network television revenues. But the league judged the team needy enough to have funneled $6 million in cash to it since 1997 from a supplemental revenue sharing fund.
By one method for calculating sale price, the Jets are a stretch to reach $500 million. The Redskins sold for $805 million, or 16.5 times team and stadium cash flow of $48.8 million. The Browns sold at a multiple of 16.6.
If the Jets' value were determined by a similar yardstick, the team would be worth $191 million, or 16.6 times this season's estimated cash flow of $11.5 million. To fetch a $500 million sale price, the Jets would require a 43.4 multiple.
But multiples may be irrelevant if bidders care far more about the New York market and the possibility of a higher-revenue future -- not the underwhelming past and present.
The prospectus touts the team as a "storied sports franchise" and revels in its 1969 Super Bowl victory, "numerous individual records," educated fans and a high season-ticket renewal rate. It features photographs of Vinny Testaverde, Keyshawn Johnson, Joe Namath and Fireman Ed Anzalone, the spirited fan who leads J-E-T-S cheers at home games.
But within the slick, colorful document is an oft-repeated mantra: if you buy this team, you could renegotiate your lease or get a new stadium. That's the upside and, really, the only story.
"You'd only buy the team if you got a new stadium," said Randy Vataha, president of Game Plan LLC, a sports investment bank.
The Jets are bound to Giants Stadium until 2008, which means a new owner could endure losses unless a new stadium could be built, either privately, or with help from a state or city government.
"You have to think about how much the team would be worth in a new stadium, and all the other ways you can increase your cash flow," Vataha said, in areas like luxury suites, club seats, higher ticket prices, sponsorships, advertising and Internet deals.
The Hess estate is relying on the hope that a new owner will somehow get a new stadium in New Jersey or New York by 2009. It also hopes a buyer will pay a large premium to own a team in the New York market.
The prospectus notes that recent deals for naming rights range from $3.1 million a year at Raymond James Stadium, where the Tampa Bay Buccaneers play, to $9.3 million annually for Philips Arena in Atlanta, home of the hockey Thrashers.
"The potential for a football team is so enormous in New York that if you bid less than $700 million for the Jets, you'll be passed by, even if you have to wait eight or nine years for a new stadium," said Mark Rosentraub, associate dean at the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University.
In its estimate of the impact of a new stadium on the Jets' economics -- if it were in place now -- Goldman, Sachs estimated $55 million in ticket revenues and $5 million in stadium naming rights. Both numbers are conservative and are based on a 72,000-seat stadium with 150 luxury suites and 9,000 club seats.
Washington Redskins Stadium, for example, has 80,116 seats, 280 luxury suites and 15,044 club seats -- the most in the league, in the nation's eighth largest market.
Under Hess's ownership, the Jets were not marketed aggressively. But getting new sponsors or raising prices at Giants Stadium is not enough to compete with wealthier teams like the Cowboys, Browns, Redskins, Buccaneers and Carolina Panthers. The team's net ticket revenues -- gate receipts, a one-third split of luxury suite rentals and club seats -- jumped from $18 million to $24.9 million last season and are pegged at $27.4 million this season. The increase is tied to the construction of additional suites and higher ticket prices.
In 1997, the Jets' $30.50 average ticket price was the N.F.L.'s cheapest. Since then, the average has risen 33 percent to $41.50, according to the publication Team Marketing Report.
And now, the buyer selection grinds on quietly, without comment from the suitors, Jets or Goldman, Sachs. Cablevision's Charles F. Dolan is considered a leader. There is no timetable to choose a new owner, although it is likely to follow what is shaping up to be a disappointing season on the field. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (58%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (55%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (55%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES; STADIUMS SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TICKET SALES (71%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD LEON HESS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



324 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Pataki to Order Emissions Cuts For Power Sites

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki will order power plants in New York State to make sharp cuts in the smokestack emissions that cause acid rain and smog, his aides said yesterday.
The move will raise the state's electricity rates by 1 to 2 percent, they said, but it will put New York substantially ahead of the rest of the country in the cleanup schedule set by the Federal Clean Air Act. 
 Mr. Pataki, who is expected to outline the plan at a news conference today, will order cuts in two kinds of pollution: sulfur dioxide, the main cause of acid rain, and nitrogen oxides, which cause smog and also contribute to acid rain, administration officials said.
While an impending Federal rule would require cuts in nitrogen oxides only in the summer, when smog is at its worst, the new New York State regulations would require the same reductions all year, the officials said.
Word of Mr. Pataki's plans pleased both environmental groups seeking cleaner air and power companies with proposals to build new natural-gas power plants in the state. These plants are costly to build but produce much less pollution than the old coal-burning plants that dominate in western New York.
Under the new rules, the gas-fired plants will be able to compete against coal plants, energy experts say, because the coal plants will have to invest in expensive systems to filter pollution.
"This is a very exciting and bold move by the Governor," said Ned Sullivan, the executive director of Scenic Hudson, a private environmental group. "No other state has mandated this level of reduction for acid rain control."
The slight increase in electric rates would be more than offset by the environmental benefits, said John P. Cahill, the New York Commissioner of Environmental Conservation.
"No one could dispute now that New York has done more than any other state in the country to control emissions from its sources," Mr. Cahill said yesterday, after describing the plan.
In addition, he said, the New York plan could add momentum to efforts in Congress to pass Federal legislation that would require similar reductions.
Owners of some of the state's coal-fired plants, which sit mainly in western New York and the upper Hudson Valley, said they could not comment on specifics until after the Pataki administration released details today.
But some said they planned to comply with whatever new standards emerged once the new regulations were written.
"Our goal is always to meet or exceed environmental standards," said Frank Rapley, a spokesman for NRG Energy Inc., a Minneapolis company that recently bought two of the biggest power plants in the state, Dunkirk and C. R. Huntley, near Buffalo.
Starting next year, a provision of the Clean Air Act will require a 35 percent reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions from power plants, but only from May through September. The state would require the same reduction throughout the year.
As a result, annual emissions would drop from levels like those seen in 1998 -- 102,000 tons -- to 62,000 tons a year, according to state environmental officials. That level is 20,000 tons less than the Federal rule would allow, they said.
The planned reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions would be even sharper, dropping from more than 300,000 tons a year -- the level in 1998 -- to less than 130,000 tons a year, with the reduction being phased in from 2003 to 2007, Mr. Cahill said. Under the Clean Air Act, New York would only be required to cut its sulfur dioxide pollution to 262,000 tons a year, according to state officials.
A spate of recent studies has shown that pollution cuts called for under the Clean Air Act will not be sufficient to repair damage to forests, streams and lakes around the Northeast from acidic rain and snow.
Over all, New York environmental officials calculate, only 17 to 20 percent of the acid rain problem in the Adirondacks and other areas upstate comes from pollution produced by New York's own power plants. The rest comes from coal-fired power plants in the Middle West and South, Mr. Cahill said.
New York has been locked in a dispute for a decade with those states. By moving to cut its pollution, Mr. Cahill said, the state can increase the pressure on them to follow suit.
Officials at the Federal Environmental Protection Agency said that some of Mr. Pataki's planned cuts in power-plant pollution would have been required anyway. Some states downwind of New York have petitioned the E.P.A. to force some of New York's old coal-fired plants to cut pollution that drifts east and contributes to problems.
But they conceded that some of New York's moves, particularly the cut in nitrogen oxides throughout the year, went beyond anything done by any other states.
Many private environmental groups were delighted by the Pataki plan. "It sets a new tone and increases New York's commitment to putting more pressure on Washington to make it all happen," said Ashok Gupta, an economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. But, he said that if Congress did not quickly follow suit with stronger Federal laws, it might still be possible in several years for New York to retreat.
In a separate development, Eliot L. Spitzer, the State Attorney General, who is investigating eight of New York's older power plants for possible violations of Federal and state pollution rules, sent letters on Tuesday to their owners requesting hundreds of pages of documents.
Mr. Spitzer announced last month that he planned to sue the owners of power plants in upwind states, on the ground that their pollution harmed New Yorkers.
According to Larry Shapiro, a lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a lobbying and environmental organization, the moves by Mr. Pataki and Mr. Spitzer show that New York is finally getting serious about stanching the flow of air pollution, whether its source is smokestacks in upwind states or in New York itself.
"We're going to have to lead by example," Mr. Shapiro said, "and that's what the Governor's doing."
Many air pollution experts said that the maneuvers implied a significant amount of political competition for credit as New York moved toward cutting pollution, with the Republican Governor and Democratic Attorney General eager to be perceived as a leader on the issue.
But Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, said the final result was a good one. "The bottom line is that a little competition between us and them is good for the air," he said yesterday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NRG (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (61%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (61%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (61%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NRG ENERGY INC (61%); NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ACID RAIN; SMOG; SULFUR DIOXIDE; NITROGEN OXIDE; COAL; GAS (FUEL) EMISSIONS (91%); ACID RAIN (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); SMOG (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CAHILL, JOHN P (COMR) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



325 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves $8.7 Billion for Emergency Aid to Farmers

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Driven by low crop prices, bad weather in many parts of the country and arcane farm-state politics, the Senate gave final legislative approval today to an $8.7 billion package of emergency aid to farmers.
This is the second straight year Congress has spent billions to bail farmers out of financial trouble, raising doubt about the political practicality of applying free-market principles to American farmers. 
 The emergency assistance is part of a $69 billion spending bill to finance agriculture and food programs in the current fiscal year.
The Senate approved the final version by a vote of 74 to 26. The opponents were almost all Easterners from both parties who opposed the way it dealt with milk prices.
The House gave its final approval to the measure on Oct. 1. President Clinton is expected to sign the measure quickly. The Agriculture Department said checks should begin going out to farmers within two weeks.
The new fiscal year began on Oct. 1, but the agriculture bill is only the sixth of 13 spending bills for the Federal departments and agencies to clear Congress. The President vetoed one of those, the bill for the District of Columbia, so only four have become law.
The Government has been running on stop-gap legislation that will expire on Oct. 21 and will almost certainly have to be extended to keep Federal offices open while the politicians work out their differences.
More than half the money in the bill approved today will go for food stamps and other nutrition programs. Much of the rest is earmarked for uncontested agriculture and rural development programs.
To get the final version through Congress, several potentially controversial items were left out by the conferees who reconciled the bills passed by the House and Senate. One would have allowed food and medicine to be shipped to Cuba. Another would have prohibited the Food and Drug Administration from approving abortion drugs like RU-486.
But senators from the East balked when the conferees excluded provisions that would have blocked a new milk-pricing system favored by the Clinton Administration and would have allowed the continuation of a special arrangement that keeps a floor on milk prices in New England. Several other Eastern states hoped to join the New England compact.
On Tuesday the Senate voted, 79 to 20, to cut off a filibuster by the Easterners and bring the bill to a vote.
The dairy question led to strange political bedfellows. Liberal Democrats like Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont and Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey voted alongside conservatives like Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Robert C. Smith, the Republican-turned-independent from New Hampshire.
The emergency assistance itself had no opposition, though many senators argued that $8.7 billion was inadequate in the face of Midwestern grain prices that are the lowest in decades and the large crop losses from the drought this summer in the East, floods in the South and crop disease in the upper Midwest.
Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat who voted for the bill, compared it to "throwing a leaking life raft to a drowning person."
"It helps a little bit," he added, "but it's not a long-term solution to the problem."
The consensus in Congress is that additional emergency assistance will be needed when the farm losses in North Carolina from Hurricane Floyd are tallied.
Farm politics is guided much more by regional interests than partisan ones. But Democrats used the bill today to renew their attack on the Freedom to Farm Act of 1996.
The law was one of the central elements of Republican dogma that party leaders got enacted after they won control of Congress in the 1994 elections. It abolished most of the Government price-support programs, in place since the 1930's, on the theory that farmers would fare better in an unfettered marketplace.
Farmers were happy in 1996 and 1997, when commodity prices were high and they were still entitled to what were called transition payments from Washington. But when grain prices began to plunge last year, farmers turned to the Government for help. And the politicians who represent them, regardless of party, obliged.
"The transition turned out to be more difficult than we anticipated," said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, a leading Republican supporter of the Freedom to Farm Act.
The problem, Mr. Grassley said, was not the principle of the law but the fact that its authors did not anticipate such events as the devaluation of Brazilian currency and the crash in Asian economies, which had a devastating effect on American farm exports.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF PENNSYLVANIA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WEATHER; FEDERAL AID (US) LEGISLATION (93%); APPROVALS (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); MILK (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); VETO (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD STAMPS (70%); NUTRITION (64%); ABORTION (62%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (73%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



326 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: State House Journal;
In Massachusetts, Budget Race Is Not to the Swift

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
Massachusetts effectively claimed the budgetary booby prize for 1999 today when legislative leaders announced a long-awaited agreement that would finally let the state pass its annual financial plan -- 104 days after the fiscal year began on July 1 and dead last among all 50 states.
The Senate President, Thomas F. Birmingham, and the House Speaker, Thomas M. Finneran -- both Democrats, both powerful figures, and lumped together by some as "the Toms" -- announced their breakthrough today with unconcealed relief after weeks of one-on-one wrangling, often on a secluded State House balcony high on Beacon Hill. 
 When white smoke wafts up from the Vatican, Mr. Birmingham told reporters, people say, "Habemus papam' -- "We have a Pope." So perhaps today it would be appropriate to say, "Habemus rationem pecuniae" -- "We have a financial plan." "Amen!" responded Mr. Finneran with enthusiasm.
Both said the wait had been worthwhile because it had allowed them to hash out compromises on moves of long-term importance to the state, from reforming the finances of the subway system to salting away 70 percent of the hundreds of millions of dollars the state will receive from the tobacco settlement. The two also managed after long debates to agree on increasing prescription drug coverage for low-income elderly, proposing that old people with incomes up to 188 percent of the Federal poverty level be covered by the state for up to $1,250 a year.
But critics remained unmoved by their post-game back-patting and bonhomie, saying the weeks of tardiness, during which monthly interim budgets were passed and no new programs could be financed, had hurt the state, including many poor people and underpaid state employees who were waiting for promised state money.
Critics also derided the two leaders as chamber chieftains whose tete-a-tete talks bespoke an autocratic style typical of a traditional, troubling Massachusetts style of back-room politics.
"The legislature has accomplished next to nothing this year, and I think it's embarrassing," said Brian Cresta, chairman of the state's Republican Party. "Along the way a lot of issues languished and almost died on the vine."
"You expect to see this during bad economic times," Mr. Cresta said, but in good times like these, "It just doesn't make sense to me."
Actually, some experts on state budgets say, it does make sense that financial plans become much harder to pass when times are good -- just as family budgets are harder to agree upon when parents' incomes are up and a "no" to a child's request for a new bike or sound system is harder to justify.
"It appears to be more difficult in times of plenty for states to pass a budget compared to relatively lean years, because in those years, at least legislators understand that there is a limit to how much they can ask for special projects in districts or for special programs they favor," said Arturo Perez, a senior policy specialist who follows state budgets at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Coming at the end of a record spell of peacetime prosperity, this year's budgets have been especially slow, Mr. Perez said. In Wisconsin, the next-to-last state, the Legislature passed its budget only last week, and perennially tardy New York, whose fiscal year starts in April, was four months late as well.
In Massachusetts, disagreement in the overwhelmingly Democratic legislature was not so much over tax cuts, though the two leaders did wrestle to an agreement over phasing the income tax down from 5.95 percent to 5.75 percent. Rather, it was an intra-Democrat tussle focused more on how much windfall money to squirrel away versus how much to spend now on social programs. Mr. Birmingham appeared to be more for spending, Mr. Finneran more for squirreling.
Prosperity also contributes to slow state budgets in the complacency it engenders among voters, some lawmakers noted.
"Ten years ago, if we didn't have a budget this late in the year, legislators didn't dare go out in public for fear of bodily harm," said State Representative Jim Marzilli, a Democrat from Arlington. "Now, when I meet my constituents on the street, there is a mix of befuddlement and contempt for government -- they ask, 'What's wrong with us?' -- but nobody calls me going, 'Make the budget move!' Even while literally hundreds of thousands of people are harmed by the failure of the legislature to act."
For weeks, The Boston Globe has been carrying a "Budget Watch" noting how many days the budget was late and naming a different set of victims each day, from parents awaiting day care subsidies to school districts crippled in their hiring to elderly patients skimping on their medications.
In contrast, officials in the Republican administration of Gov. Paul Cellucci and some columnists in the more conservative Boston Herald emphasized the positive side of the stalemate: that it saved millions of dollars by holding back planned new spending. (And the wait is not over yet: Mr. Finneran estimates it will be two weeks or so before final details can be worked out and the budget passed.)
But critics like Mr. Marzilli called the delay outrageous.
"As our economy creates two huge classes -- one of winners and one of losers -- the folks who were most hurt by the budget stalemate were the ones left behind," he said. "They are not the people who elect us. And most legislators know that." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (56%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEACON HILL SOFTWARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (56%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); AGING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; BIRMINGHAM, THOMAS F (SEN); FINNERAN, THOMAS M (SPEAKER) THOMAS M FINNERAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



327 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Franchising

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"As Market Booms, Real Estate Brokers Slip Their Chains" (Sept. 30) unfortunately drew broad and inaccurate conclusions about our industry. Even the strongest franchise cannot dramatically increase referrals to a location that has little or no population growth, such as Roscoe, N.Y. What it does provide is name recognition and trust, education and training for agents, broad exposure on the Internet and the clout of a strong national marketing campaign. 
 A major point missed by the article is the changing nature of the real estate industry. Residential real estate is undergoing a period of consolidation. The current trend in our industry is toward fewer small offices and more large, well-capitalized, full-service offices. Though this trend varies from market to market, it is driven not only by industry economics, but also by consumer demands for more services. The article correctly noted that Cendant brand franchises participate in about 25 percent of the nation's home sales, but it failed to add that Cendant has been a leader in promoting this consolidation. The result: fewer firms and offices selling more houses. If you analyze the industry by number of firms, there is a drop in franchise affiliations in terms of office count. But if you assess the industry by percentage of transactions handled by brokers and agents of franchised firms, the picture is very different.
 
RICHARD A. SMITH
Chairman and Chief Executive
Cendant real estate division
Parsippany, N.J.
 
Cendant Corporation owns the Century 21, Coldwell Banker and ERA residential franchise systems. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (66%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (66%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENDANT CORP AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENDANT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FRANCHISING (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: SMITH, RICHARD A RICHARD A SMITH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



328 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: AT&T on the Electronic Highway

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Oct. 10 editorial "Control of the Electronic Highway" naively perpetuates the myth that AT&T will somehow control television programming in the United States. 
 The combination of AT&T and Mediaone will have fewer than 24 million cable customers -- less than a third of the more than 80 million households subscribing to cable or satellite television service.
AT&T will also have a nearly 25 percent economic interest in the Time Warner Entertainment partnership after our merger with Mediaone.
Reasonable people can disagree about how to attribute Time Warner Entertainment's cable customers to AT&T. But there is no way it could more than double AT&T's cable ownership to the "60 percent of American households" you claim will be "within reach of AT&T's cable programs."
Further, the Federal Communications Commission's new rules appropriately provide that, if a company's economic interest in a cable system is insulated from programming decisions, it should not count toward ownership limits. This is not some "loophole," as you suggest. Rather, this rule preserves programming diversity while allowing companies like AT&T access to a sufficient number of cable lines over which we can offer American families a choice in local phone service. After all, one of the local telephone monopolies will control well over 30 percent of American telephone lines.
You correctly assert that AT&T's cable purchases represent "the first important challenge to the Baby Bells." For that very reason, we look forward to regulatory approval of our acquisition of Mediaone.
 
JAMES CICCONI
Exec. V.P. & Gen. Counsel, AT&T
Washington, Oct. 12, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; MEDIAONE GROUP INC AT&T INC (95%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; MEDIAONE GROUP INC FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION; EDITORIALS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: CICCONI, JAMES W

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



329 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: DEFEAT OF A TREATY: NEWS ANALYSIS;
The G.O.P. Torpedo

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13

 BODY:
The Senate's decisive rejection tonight of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was the most explicit American repudiation of a major international agreement in 80 years, and it further weakened the already shaky standing of the United States as a global moral leader.
Not since the Versailles Treaty was voted down in November 1919, an action that was repeated in March 1920, has so far-reaching an accord been turned down. In the entire history of the Republic, only 20 treaties negotiated by American Presidents or other officials have been defeated, while 1,523 have been ratified. Tonight, that number rose to 21. 
 By torpedoing a face-saving compromise that was in the works between the White House and the Republican leadership, conservative Republicans made a vote inevitable. And by denying the treaty not only the requisite two-thirds majority but even a simple majority, the conservatives and their allies made good on Senator Jesse Helms's promise to give the agreement a Capitol Hill "funeral."
The control of nuclear weapons has been a central goal of American foreign policy since Dwight D. Eisenhower proposed a ban on all nuclear testing in 1958. All Presidents in the four decades since, Republicans and Democrats, have sought to limit testing and weapons development.
In rejecting the test ban treaty, which President Clinton signed on Sept. 24, 1996, at a ceremony at the United Nations, the Senate halted the momentum built up over the years. No modern arms-control treaty had ever been rejected, although President Carter, who had a hard time winning passage of the Panama Canal treaties, withdrew the SALT II agreement with the Soviet Union from consideration after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
The SALT agreement was finally ratified in 1996, when memories of Afghanistan had faded, but the Russian Parliament has never acted on it.
The treaty rejected tonight was to have been the capstone of arms control efforts, banning even nuclear tests conducted underground.
Only last week, an international conference in Vienna urged the United States, Russia and China, all of which had signed the global agreement without ratifying it, to accelerate approval as a means of bringing renewed pressure on North Korea, India and Pakistan. They are the only 3 of the world's 44 nuclear-capable nations that have not signed the pact.
On Tuesday of this week, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry urged American ratification, arguing that it would "serve as an example and promote the ratification of the treaty by other countries."
North Korea has not stated its intentions clearly. India and Pakistan are still trying to decide whether to sign, although the coup in Pakistan this week has raised doubts.
The 15 nations that have signed but not ratified the accord now have far less incentive to ratify. In addition to Russia and China, Egypt and Israel are on that list. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said in a speech in Maine today that the United States would continue to observe the terms of the treaty, conducting no nuclear testing, and urge other nations to do the same.
But the whole point of the treaty was to make such undertakings legally binding, not voluntary, and that now seems unachievable. Ratification by all 44 countries is required for the agreement to take effect.
So the United States finds itself in the position of the spoiler, at a time when it is already stigmatized as a nation that refuses to pay its dues to the United Nations and, in some quarters, as a nation that takes part in international peacekeeping and other such efforts only reluctantly, only in some parts of the world and only when its own ox is being gored.
For Mr. Clinton, whose influence abroad is waning, perhaps more than that of the typical President approaching his final year in office, the rejection of the treaty was the latest in a series of difficulties.
It took place against a backdrop of intense partisan and ideological polarization between the White House and Congress, which the President was unable to neutralize with the finesse he often displays on domestic issues. Such polarization also played a key role in the defeat of the Versailles Treaty, which came at the end of the most popular war the United States had ever fought up to then.
President Wilson invited neither Republican leaders nor important figures in the Senate to Paris for the peace talks, telling associates that the Republicans, who had taken control of both houses of Congress in the 1918 elections, would never dare to refuse ratification. Compounding his error, he refused to compromise with Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and leader of the opposition to the treaty and the League of Nations, which was set up by a covenant within the treaty.
Many of the Republicans, including Lodge, disliked Wilson intensely, and that contributed to the defeat, as did the enmity toward President Clinton of Senator Helms of North Carolina, who is now the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and other conservatives in today's vote. But in 1919 and 1920, unlike today, there was a detailed debate about the treaty on both sides of the Atlantic, with leading thinkers joining in attacks on the treaty.
For example, the great British economist John Maynard Keynes condemned Wilson as "a blind and deaf Don Quixote" who had been "bamboozled" by the more sophisticated Europeans. This time, the debate has been brief and muted, with opponents relying on generalized assertions that the accord would harm United States national security by unwisely limiting sovereignty.
Because it never joined the League of Nations, the United States was able to play no role in its attempts to head off the approach of World War II in places like Ethiopia, then called Abyssinia, and that inevitably weakened the League's peace efforts.
After the defeat of the Versailles Treaty and before today, only five other treaties had been rejected by the Senate. United States adherence to the World Court, an arm of the League of Nations, was one of the most important of the issues involved; it was turned aside in January 1935, at the height of the New Deal, with 20 Democrats forsaking President Roosevelt.
Described as a historic setback at the time, it proved to be much less than that, as the influence of the World Court crumbled in the rush towards war. American adherence would have made little difference.
The St. Lawrence Seaway project was blocked a year earlier, but it was built after World War II. A commercial rights treaty with Turkey was voted down in 1927. More recently, a protocol of the Law of the Sea treaty regarding the compulsory settlement of disputes was rejected (though not the treaty itself), as was an obscure Montreal aviation protocol.
But none of those actions had anything approaching the gravity of tonight's rejection, which went to the very heart of the efforts by the victorious allies to build a safer world in the wake of World War II. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page news analysis article on Thursday about the Republican-led defeat of the test ban treaty misidentified the treaty that the Senate approved in 1996. It was Start II, not the SALT agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PANAMA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PANAMA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (57%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



330 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Canadian-Born Columbia University Economist Wins Nobel Award

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Robert A. Mundell of Columbia University, an eccentric Canadian-born economist whose influence was felt from the supply-side economics of the Reagan years to the creation of the euro, was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science yesterday.
Professor Mundell, who is 66, was recognized by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences not for his influence on what came to be called Reaganomics, but for his contributions to international economics as the first theorist to demonstrate how the international flow of capital could affect an individual country's ability to manage its own economy through interest rate changes and tax and budget policies. 
 His discovery may seem commonplace today, when tidal waves of money surge around the globe at the click of a computer mouse as professional currency speculators like George Soros cruise from dollars to lire to yen and back again.
But in the early 1960's, when Professor Mundell was developing his prize-winning theories, most nations except for Canada and the United States heavily regulated the flow of capital across their borders and government officials typically tinkered with their own economies without much attention to global currency movements.
"He was way ahead of his time in recognizing that capital mobility had profound effects on the functioning of a country's economy," said Peter Kenen, an economist at Princeton University.
Professor Mundell was in London for a conference yesterday when he learned he had won the prize and the $1 million cash award that accompanies it. He did not return calls left at his hotel, but many economists said yesterday that he had long been considered a leading contender for the profession's top honor.
Although a longtime resident of the United States, Professor Mundell grew up in a small town in Ontario and earned his undergraduate degree in economics at the University of British Columbia. Those Canadian roots were critical to the development of his ideas, several colleagues said.
"In Canada, he had his laboratory," said Rudi Dornbusch, a professor of international economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who once studied under Professor Mundell.
His experiments focused on the two tools that governments use to affect their economic health: monetary policy, which involves changes in interest rates and the money supply, and fiscal policy, the sum of a government's budget and tax decisions.
As a young doctoral student, Professor Mundell observed that Canada's use of monetary policy sometimes worked and sometimes did not, depending on what kind of currency exchange rate policies were in place at the time.
His conclusion, according to the citation released yesterday by the academy in Stockholm, was that "under a floating exchange rate, monetary policy becomes powerful and fiscal policy powerless, whereas the opposite is true when the exchange rate is fixed."
Professor Mundell's work "was very precocious at the time," said Jadish Bhagwhati, a colleague at Columbia. "In those days, you could actually teach about closed economic models -- today it would be ludicrous to do so."
A rumpled, broad-faced man who once wore his unruly white hair down to his shoulders, Professor Mundell was an early advocate of substantial tax cuts as a stimulus to economic growth. When his views attracted the attention of political conservatives in the late 1970's, he found himself on the front lines of Washington policy battles between those who feared the economic impact of huge deficits and those who believed that tax cuts were just the tonic the economy needed.
"His work really began to give intellectual firepower to the supply-side tax cuts movement," said former New York Representative Jack F. Kemp yesterday. "By 1980, then-candidate Ronald Reagan had become persuaded about what Robert Mundell was saying -- and the rest is history."
Jude Wanniski, a former editorial writer for The Wall Street Journal who helped promote Professor Mundell's views, was elated at the news from Stockholm. On his Web site yesterday, he predicted that the honor would give Professor Mundell "the standing to consolidate the supply-side revolution he began."
Professor Mundell has also contributed substantially to the emergence of a common currency for Europe, said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard University. "He started people on the road to realizing that it is very, very hard to go to a fixed exchange rate without a common currency," Professor Rogoff said.
More recently, Professor Mundell has generated controversy by encouraging a return to a system of fixed exchange rates, similar to the arrangement established after World War II that called for the value of world currencies to be tied to the United States dollar, which in turn could be redeemed for gold. That system died in 1971, after huge trade deficits had put piles of dollars into the hands of the nation's trading partners, who threatened to redeem them for gold.
One recent paper, published by the Center for Economic Policy Studies at St. Vincent College in Latrobe, Pa., is entitled, "The International Monetary System in the 21st Century: Could Gold Make a Comeback?"
But if exchange rates and monetary policy conjure up an image of a tedious ideologue, nothing could be further from reality, the professor's colleagues and friends said.
"He is decidedly not a nerd," Professor Dornbusch said.
Professor Mundell earned his doctorate in economics in 1956 from M.I.T., after spending a year at the London School of Economics. His various faculty posts included at stint at the University of Chicago, where from 1966 through 1970 he was an editor of the prestigious Journal of Political Economy. The university's famous economics department "was sort of like a mining town in those days, with lots of hard drinking and long poker games," one friend recalled.
He joined Columbia's faculty in 1974, establishing himself in a rambling book-filled apartment in Morningside Heights. An avid painter, he produced roughly 400 richly colored canvases in a single 18-month period, said Mr. Wanniski, who compared the professor's bold abstract artistic style to "Van Gogh gone wild."
Colleagues and proteges have come to covet invitations to his second home, Santa Colomba, an ancient Tuscan villa in Monteriggioni, near Siena, which he purchased from the Catholic Church about 30 years ago and has been slowly restoring to its Renaissance glory.
And a visit to the professor's home page at Columbia's Web site reveals his latest fascination: his baby son, Nicholas, his photogenic offspring from a second marriage. He has three grown children from an earlier marriage, which ended in divorce in 1972.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Oct. 14 about the awarding of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science to Robert A. Mundell misstated the amount. This year's award is valued at $976,000, not $1 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert A. Mundell posed with his wife and newborn son last year at his villa in Italy. His influence as an economist was felt from the supply-side economics of the Reagan years to the creation of the euro. (Associated Press)(pg. C9); Robert A. Mundell spoke in London yesterday after learning of his Nobel award. (Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); SWEDEN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (63%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); SWEDEN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; NOBEL PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); NOBEL PRIZES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EURO (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (67%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; MUNDELL, ROBERT (PROF) RONALD REAGAN (88%); GEORGE SOROS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



331 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Rhode Island Sues Makers of Lead Paint

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
The Rhode Island Attorney General sued eight paint manufacturers and a lead industry trade group in state court on Tuesday in an effort to make them pay for treating children poisoned by lead paint and removing lead paint from buildings.
At least a dozen other states, counties and cities are considering filing similar suits, as governments did earlier against the tobacco and gun industries, lawyers involved in the cases said. 
 And as in the suits against cigarette makers, which led to settlements with the states totaling $246 billion, lawyers for Rhode Island are accusing paint manufacturers of knowing lead paint was dangerous, especially to children, and of covering up the risk.
The Federal Government banned lead paint in 1978 because of health concerns, but studies this decade have found that two-thirds of the nation's housing still contains lead paint and that 890,000 children ages 1 to 5 have elevated lead levels in their blood. Ingesting paint chips or dust containing lead can cause severe mental, developmental and behavioral problems, including lowered intelligence, in children.
High lead levels are more common in the Northeast, where many homes and buildings were built more than a generation ago, when lead was a standard ingredient in paint. Rhode Island officials say 20 percent of the state's kindergarten pupils have elevated blood-lead levels.
The Rhode Island suit accuses the eight companies, or companies that they now own, of promoting the use of lead paint while covering up the dangers it posed to children. The suit, filed by Attorney General Sheldon Whitehouse, also names as a defendant the Lead Industries Association, an industry trade group.
The suit did not seek a specific amount in damages but asks the court to force the manufacturers to pay the cost of treating lead poisoned children and the cost of removing lead paint from buildings in the state. Mr. Whitehouse said these costs totaled in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Several lawsuits against lead paint manufacturers by individual plaintiffs have failed. But the Rhode Island lawsuit seeks a different remedy, following the path of state lawsuits against the tobacco industry.
As in those cases, which sought to recoup the costs of treating smoking-related illnesses, Rhode Island is seeking reimbursement of money spent on the health costs of lead paint, not money to compensate individual victims.
The lawyers pressing the new cases also plan to harness the same financial resources used to pay for the tobacco litigation, as at least three lawyers who played major roles and won huge fee awards in suits against tobacco will be involved in lead-paint cases. The Rhode Island Attorney General said the plaintiffs' lawyers would receive about 17 percent of any verdict or settlement.
Lead industry officials called the lawsuit a "groundless and wasteful action" and said that past lawsuits accusing the industry of conspiracies had failed.
"This is litigation that is trying to make a scapegoat of responsible companies," said Timothy S. Hardy, a lawyer representing N.L. Industries, a defendant in the Rhode Island suit. "The story the plaintiff lawyers are trying to tell is wrong."
Jeff Miller, of the Lead Industries Association, said he had not seen the lawsuit and could not comment on its specifics. But Mr. Miller said lead levels in blood had been falling for years, in part because the industry quit selling lead paint in the early 1960's.
"Most kids are way below any medical level of concern," he said.
Ron Motley, a lawyer in the state tobacco lawsuits, whose firm filed the Rhode Island lead-paint suit, said he believed that documents he has show that the industry covered up the dangers of lead paint, much as tobacco executives had misled the public by disputing government findings on the dangers of smoking.
"They were as omnipresent and evil as the tobacco industry ever hoped to be," Mr. Motley said. "This is not a teen-age problem. This is a toddler problem. The tobacco industry targeted teen-agers, but at least teen-agers could read. You're talking about poisoning children with an odorless, colorless but tasty thing. It's insidious."
A spokeswoman for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York said that the city was looking at the possibility of suing lead paint manufacturers but that no decision had been made.
Other defendants include E.I. duPont De Nemours & Company; the O'Brien Corporation; the Glidden Company, a division of Imperial Chemical Industries, P.L.C.; S.C.M. Chemicals, the Sherwin-Williams Company; American Cyanamid, and the Atlantic Richfield Company. Representatives of some of those companies said that the lawsuit was meritless and that they had always manufactured paint in a safe and appropriate manner. Some companies also said they had not manufactured paint in years. Cytec Industries Inc., which acquired certain assets of American Cyanamid six years ago, said it did not believe the company made lead paint.
The Rhode Island lawyers will seek to contrast advertisements and statements by manufacturers that lead is not harmful with internal and other documents that they contend demonstrate the industry knew of serious health risks but lied about them and sought to delay increased labeling and disclosure.
Subpoenas to the defendants will begin going out this week, lawyers said. But they already have obtained some documents that they say support their accusations, with industry officials dismissing concerns about poisoning as a problem faced largely by "slum children," while also showing that they knew more than 50 years ago that lead was toxic and lead paint dangerous.
One document, from the Lead Industries Association's 1959 annual report, comments that lead poisoning, or the threat of it, "means thousands of items of unfavorable publicity every year."
"This is particularly true," it continued, "since most cases of lead poisoning today are in children, and anything sad that happens to a child is meat for newspaper editors and is gobbled up by the public. It makes no difference that it is essentially a problem of slums, a public welfare problem. Just the same the publicity hits us where it hurts."
And, according to the lawsuit, the association's director of health and safety informed members in 1955 that "childhood lead poisoning is common enough to constitute perhaps my major 'headache,' this being in part due to the very poor prognosis in many such cases, and also to the fact that the only real remedy lies in educating a relatively ineducable category of parents. It is mainly a slum problem with us."
Mr. Hardy, the lawyer for N.L. Industries, said that these documents had been introduced into courts before, and that no judge or jury had yet ruled against the manufacturers.
Don Ryan, executive director of the Alliance to End Childhood Lead Poisoning, a public interest group in Washington, said lead poisoning had long been a more severe problem in lower-income areas. But he said it also afflicted affluent areas, especially when renovations cause the release of lead-paint dust.
Some problems happen because of "the inadvertent creation of hazards at the other end of the economic spectrum, yuppies fixing up the grand old Victorian," said Mr. Ryan, who estimated it would cost $500 billion to remove all the lead paint in the nation's dwellings.
The lead-paint lawsuits will be a reunion of sorts for some of the most important lawyers involved in the state tobacco settlements.
Aside from Mr. Motley, whosefirm in Charleston, S.C., Ness, Motley, Loadholdt Richardson & Poole, represented 28 states in the tobacco litigation, Peter Angelos, the Baltimore Orioles owner who is also a prominent anti-tobacco plaintiff lawyer, filed two cases against lead-paint manufacturers last month in Maryland.
And Richard Scruggs, a Pascagoula, Miss., lawyer who also was instrumental in the tobacco litigation, is expected to play a part in at least a few lead paint lawsuits in the Southeast.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 14 about the Rhode Island Attorney General's suit against paint manufacturers for the cost of removing lead paint from buildings included an erroneous reference to a comparable issue in New York. The city sued a group of manufacturers in 1989; it is not merely looking at the possibility. The suit is still pending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: LEAD INDUSTRIES ASSN LEAD INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAD INDUSTRIES ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND; ; UNITED STATES (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: LEAD; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PAINTS AND PAINTING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH LEAD (99%); LEAD PAINT (96%); PAINTS & COATINGS (91%); LEAD POISONING (91%); LAWYERS (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POISONINGS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); VERDICTS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SMOKING (76%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; WHITEHOUSE, SHELDON (ATTY GEN) SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999



332 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2703 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION;
A City Reclaims Its Cultural Past

BYLINE: By PAULA DEITZ; Paula Deitz is the editor of The Hudson Review.

 BODY:
During the late 1940's, right after World War II, there was a rich cultural life in Trenton, including opera, ballet and symphony, that centered on the theater in the War Memorial building, completed in 1932 to commemorate local citizens who died in World War I. Unlike the sprawling performing arts centers that succeeded this compact genre, War Memorial buildings were designed to house numerous civic events. Half town meeting house, half theater, the civic auditorium as a civilizing force in the community had an architectural presence akin to museums, banks, courthouses and city halls.
Trenton's War Memorial building exuded a sophisticated opulence and grandeur that made the audience dress up to attend performances, but like many civic structures during the great catastrophe of urban renewal that obliterated downtowns, the War Memorial, despite its proximity to the State Capitol, slipped into dowdiness as the downtown area shifted away. Governor Thomas H. Kean took notice in 1988 (it has been the site of all gubernatorial inaugurations since its opening) and announced that the building would be renovated. Earlier this year, after going dark for five years, the War Memorial reopened and is more splendid than ever. But best of all, it once again has a full program of performances. 
 The reborn Trenton War Memorial Theater is only one of several cultural and historic places in Trenton to visit for special reasons this fall, all in what is known as the Capitol Complex, the buildings clustered around the State House along the Delaware River. In addition to attending a matinee or evening performance in the theater, one can visit the New Jersey State Museum; the restored 19th-century rotunda under the Capitol dome; the Old Barracks Museum, reconfigured to its 18th-century military period, and the 1719 Queen Anne-style mansion of William Trent, after whom the city is named.
Trenton's limestone and granite War Memorial is a blend of neo-Italian Renaissance and Art Deco styles with a high parapet and an Ionic colonnade leading to the Memorial Court, the main entrance, with its blue, green and gold terra-cotta ceiling and dedication plaques.
In 1946 and 1947 the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo performed dances there choreographed by George Balanchine before he helped found the New York City Ballet. Among the works were "Concerto Barocco," the first "Mozartiana" and "The Night Shadow" (now "La Sonnambula"), the latter with Alexandra Danilova and Maria Tallchief, who had danced at its premiere in New York in 1946.
And in 1948, before starring in "South Pacific" on Broadway, Ezio Pinza sang Mephistopheles in Gounod's "Faust," and his daughter, Claudia, sang Marguerite in the Trenton Opera Association's production. In addition to being performed by invited stars, the opera repertory was presented by local singers in the minor roles and the Trenton Opera Chorus.
Trenton at that period had a cultural life unto itself, not necessarily dependent on Philadelphia or New York. What's more, the theater would hold a graduating class of more than 1,000 from Trenton Central High School. Dance teachers held their student recitals in the ballroom. And when John F. Kennedy ran for President, he stood between the Ionic columns during an autumn twilight and spoke to thousands standing in the plaza below.
While the War Memorial's interior remained intact during the renovation, every marble and painted surface and all the bronze light fixtures and railings had to be revitalized to restore their gleam and glitter. The Vitetta Group, architects and engineers based in Cherry Hill, N.J., and Philadelphia who undertook the renovation, had the advantage of the original drawings by the building's architect, Louis S. Kaplan. Kaplan had been the chief draftsman for William A. Klemann, the architect for the preliminary plan, who died during the process. An analysis by Matthew J. Mosca, a historical paint consultant, revealed the bright colors that gave the theater its fantasy environment.
Hyman Myers, the director of historic preservation for Vitetta, sees the 1,800-seat theater, in its new raiment, fulfilling its role as "a spaceship to an imaginary dream world," with updating to enhance the acoustics and improve the stage machinery.
 
Architecture Grand as Opera
What delights the eye are the decorative surfaces of rose and saffron further embellished with gilded plaster; the newly polished marble walls and terrazzo floors of the corridors, and bronze classical motifs like the image of Terpsichore, the muse of the dance in her diaphanous garb. An immense ceiling medallion festooned with garlands and smaller medallions in the same warm palette glows in soft illumination. Even the rust-colored stage curtain was reproduced down to the last gold tassel from a photograph in the archives of the Greater Trenton Symphony Orchestra.
A performance last spring of "Rigoletto" by the War Memorial's resident company, Boheme Opera N.J., took full advantage of the broad stage with one architectural set that seemed to turn inside out depending on the scene. The hall was filled, and those with years in the know found the balcony seats the best for a complete overview of the theater, the stage and the recent addition of supertitles.
The company's artistic director and conductor, Trenton-born Joseph Pucciatti, founded Boheme Opera 11 years ago with his wife, Sandra Milstein-Pucciatti, a concert pianist who is managing director and assistant conductor. One hour before the "Rigoletto" performance, the couple gave their customary cogent and amusing precurtain talk in the War Memorial's blue, mauve and silver Art Deco ballroom. These talks are usually packed, and as in earlier times, it was heartening to see many children in attendance. While Mr. Pucciatti gave the background of the characters, describing the real Duke of Mantua, and of Victor Hugo's 1832 play "Le Roi S'Amuse," on which the opera is based, his wife played the relevant themes on the piano.
 
A Link to Russia
Since 1986 Trenton has been a sister city to the Central District of Moscow. Out of this relationship and under the sponsorship of the American-Russian Cultural Cooperation Foundation, Trenton was selected as the only East Coast site for a major international touring exhibition: "Unseen Treasures: Imperial Russia and the New World," which includes 300 art objects and artifacts from the Russian State Historical Museum and the State Archive of the Russian Federation in Moscow. Its opening, which had been scheduled for this weekend, has been postponed because of delays in shipping the works from Russia; it is now expected to open in late November.
Commemorating the founding in 1799 of the Russian-American Company, the exhibition will document the little-known story of the Russian colonization of what is now Northern California and Alaska, an effort motivated by the fur trade.
Marilyn Pfeifer Swezey, the guest curator of "Unseen Treasures," describes the exhibition as "a trip from imperial Russia across Siberia to the New World, and back for the coronation of Alexander II in 1855." This unusual and sumptuous display combines objects from the imperial courts, including paintings, costumes, jewelry and furniture, with those of the world of Siberian merchants and voyages to the New World. An important segment of cultural history incorporating the role of the Orthodox Church is being shown in the United States for the first time, Ms. Swezey said.
 
A Restored Rotunda
While the museum is in a 1960's building, the State House is the second oldest state capitol in continuous use. Completed in 1792, four years behind the one in Annapolis, Md., there were several additions and demolitions due to fire over the years. The present north wing and rotunda, reflecting the French style of the Italian Renaissance, was built in 1889 and is the work of a Jersey City architect, Lewis Broome. Recently regilded with Florentine gold leaf, the dome, which symbolizes representative government in the United States, has once again become a gleaming beacon over the city.
Under the dome, the 105-foot-high, three-tiered rotunda has also been restored. Completed this summer, it equals the War Memorial's in its richness of decor, as Mr. Mosca was on board again to discover the original paint pigments. Venetian-red walls and a salmon ceiling from the 1895 period once again offset the marble wainscoting trimmed in bronze and the gleaming balcony railings supported by cast-iron brackets in the form of fire-breathing dragons. On walls between stained-glass windows hang the portraits of New Jersey's Governors, beginning with its first, William Livingston. It is a dignified and exhilarating space.
 
Historic Barracks
Around the corner, going back even earlier to the Colonial period, is the Old Barracks. It has also seen many transitions since it first quartered British soldiers in 1758, when the local residents no longer wished to house them. When it was built, it was the largest building in Trenton. It probably housed Tory sympathizers and Hessian military scouts before Gen. George Washington routed them out in the Battle of Trenton, the day after Christmas in 1776.
For many years in this century the Old Barracks was a museum of Colonial curios. Since 1985, archeologists, architects and historians have put the fieldstone building back into its original configuration, trimmed with cantilevered wooden balconies and staircases. The Georgian-style officers' house at one end shows clearly that the upper ranks lived in more genteel conditions than the soldiers, who slept four to a two-tiered bunk in the barracks. The parade ground in front reinforces the military air.
But the man who truly set a stylish tone for the early township was William Trent. His brick house built in 1719, the oldest surviving dwelling in Trenton, is surrounded by a little park and once again has a view of the river now that the surrounding streets have been cleared away during urban renewal. A merchant and ship owner from Scotland who was a partner with William Penn in Philadelphia, Trent settled at his country estate on 800 acres along the Delaware in New Jersey and became the state's Chief Justice.
The house, mostly intact from the period and furnished with paneling and William and Mary furniture described in a 1726 inventory taken two years after his death, resembles on a smaller scale a fine Baroque mansion in England. It not only demonstrates that early Colonial leaders were in touch with current English taste, but also represents the high standard that Trent set for Trenton.
In addition to being the state capital, Trenton gained prominence as an industrial town in the 19th century from the production of Roebling wire cable for suspension bridges and from the manufacture of ceramics and fine china. And with this prominence came a motto emblazoned across one of the bridges over the Delaware River that can be seen from trains running between Philadelphia and New York. Now, as the city makes a comeback with its reputation for cultural life, the motto still applies: "Trenton Makes, the World Takes."
 
Travels in Trenton
 
Trenton is about 53 miles south of New York City. The Trenton Convention and Visitors Bureau is on Lafayette Street at Barrack Street, (609) 777-1770. Here is a sampling of attractions, along with travel information:
 
Attractions
 
TRENTON WAR MEMORIAL THEATER, West Lafayette Street at Barrack Street. General box office: (609) 984-8400. Boheme Opera NJ: "Sang Sista' Sang," a musical tribute to the singers Bessie Smith, Billie Holliday, Dinah Washington, Dorothy Dandridge, Josephine Baker and Mahalia Jackson, featuring an ensemble of six singers, Oct. 26-28; tickets, $18.50 to $25. "L'Elisir d'Amore" by Donizetti with Lorraine Ernest, soprano; Barton Green, tenor; David Arnold, baritone; William Walker, bass-baritone. Performances on Nov. 5 at 8 P.M (precurtain talk at 7 P.M.) and Nov. 7 at 3 P.M. (precurtain talk at 1:45 P.M.) Opera box office: (609) 581-7200. Tickets: $20 to $50. The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra: Dvorak's "Requiem," conducted by Zdenek Macal, with the Westminster Symphonic Choir; Oksana Krovytska, soprano; John Aler, tenor; Wendy Hoffman, mezzo; Gutav Belacek, bass. Tomorrow, 8 P.M. Tickets: $15 to $58. All-Haydn program. Conductor and violinist: Pinchas Zukerman; Dec. 10, 8 P.M. Tickets: $14 to $46. Symphony box office: (800) 255-3476. Tickets: $10 to $58.
 
NEW JERSEY STATE MUSEUM, 205 West State Street, (609) 984-5687. "Unseen Treasures: Imperial Russia and the New World," whose opening this weekend was postponed because of shipping delays in Russia, is now expected to open in late November and run through Jan. 16. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission to the museum is free. Special admission for "Unseen Treasures," $10; $8.50, students, the elderly and groups of 10 or more; $6, children under 12. Free parking in the Capitol Complex parking garage.
 
NEW JERSEY STATE HOUSE, 125 West State Street, (609) 633-2709. Tour includes newly renovated rotunda, Senate and General Assembly chambers, Senate Majority Conference Room and Governor's Reception Room: hourly on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 A.M. to 3 P.M, and on Saturdays, noon to 3 P.M. Free.
 
OLD BARRACKS MUSEUM, Barrack Street, (609) 396-1776. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Closed Thanksgiving, Dec. 24 and 25, Jan. 1 and Easter. Admission: $6; $3, children six to 18, students and the elderly; under 5, free. A re-enactment of the first and second Battles of Trenton, on Jan. 2, 11 A.M. to noon and 1 to 3 P.M. respectively.
 
WILLIAM TRENT HOUSE, 15 Market Street, (609) 989-3027. Hours: Daily, 12:30 P.M. to 4 P.M. Admission: $2.50; $2, students and the elderly; $1, children under 12. A Fall Family Festival will be held tomorrow from noon to 5 P.M.; $1 admission includes a tour.
 
Where to Eat
 
PETE LORENZO'S CAFE, 66 South Clinton Avenue, (609) 695-6868. Across from the railroad station. Long frequented by local politicians and business people. Italian food, steaks, chops, lobster and other seafood. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 11:30 A.M. to 11 P.M.; Saturdays, 5 to 11 P.M. Lunch, $7 to $34; dinner, $12 to $40.
 
MAXINE'S, 120 South Warren Street, (609) 392-0022. A block from the War Memorial Theater. International food. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 11:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M. and 5:30 P.M to 10 P.M.; Fridays, 11:30 A.M. to 2.30 P.M. and 5:30 P.M. to midnight; Saturdays, noon to 3 P.M. and 5:30 P.M. to midnight; Sundays, brunch from 11:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.; dinner, 5 to 9 P.M.; Lunch, $7 to $9; dinner, $15 to $25; Sunday brunch, $15.
 
CAFE OLE!, 126 South Warren Street, (609) 396-2233. A family restaurant near the War Memorial Theater that also provides the theater's food concession. Mondays through Fridays, breakfast and lunch only, 7 A.M. to 4 P.M. Breakfast, $2 to $4; lunch, $1.50 to $6.
 
MUSEUM CAFE, New Jersey State Museum, 205 West State Street, (609) 292-6464. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M.; Sunday, noon to 5 P.M. Assorted sandwiches, salads, soups and baked goods; $2.50 to $5.50.
 
MARSILIO'S, 541 Roebling Avenue, (609) 695-1916. In the Chambersburg area, Trenton's Little Italy, a five-minute drive from the Capitol Complex. Traditional southern Italian restaurant. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 11:30 A.M. to 2 P.M. and 5 to 10 P.M.; Fridays, 11:30 A.M. to 2 P.M. and 5 to 11 P.M.; Saturdays, 5 to 11 P.M. Lunch, $7.49 to $22; dinner, $13 to $24.
 
Getting There
 
BY TRAIN: Amtrak (800) 872-7245, and New Jersey Transit (973) 762-5100 provide daily train service between Penn Station in Manhattan and the Trenton train station at 72 South Clinton Avenue. The trip takes from 60 to 80 minutes. Amtrak round trip fare, $62 to $96 (half-price for children 2 to 15). New Jersey Transit, $18.90 (half-price for children under 11).
 
BY CAR: To reach Trenton from the New Jersey Turnpike, take exit 7A; follow Route 195 West to Route 29 North and exit at the Capitol Complex. PAULA DEITZ
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A tour group in the restored rotunda of the New Jersey State House. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. E33); The newly restored War Memorial Theater in Trenton has reopened with a full schedule of performances. (Joanne Bening)(pg. E43)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Trenton. (pg. E43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS WORLD WAR II (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); THEATER (89%); BALLET (89%); OPERA (89%); DANCE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CITIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WORLD WAR I (73%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); 

PERSON: DEITZ, PAULA

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



333 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar rose against the yen as traders waited for signals from the Bank of Japan on whether it will move to weaken the yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 107.35 yen, up from 106.60.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since May 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



334 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Profit Beats Forecasts for Third Consecutive Quarter

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Continuing its financial rebound, the Boeing Company beat Wall Street earnings estimates for the third consecutive quarter yesterday and promised more good news to come.
Boeing, the world's largest aerospace company and the nation's single largest exporter, said its third-quarter profit grew 37 percent as its formerly ailing passenger jet business improved its efficiency. Net income for the quarter was $477 million, or 52 cents a diluted share, compared with profit of $347 million, or 36 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $13.28 billion from $12.72 billion. 
 Analysts had expected the company to earn 49 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Shares of Boeing soared $3.125 yesterday, to $43.625, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"There was some decent productivity in the quarter," said Howard Rubel, an aerospace and military industry analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company in New York.
Boeing's stock was battered last year in the wake of production problems at its flagship commercial airplane division in late 1997, which forced the company to halt production of its 747 and 737 jetliners for a month. Boeing has continued to suffer because it sold many of its jets to airlines at steep discounts while its costs soared.
The company has since tried to streamline factory production, a process that appears to be bearing fruit. At the passenger jet division, quarterly profit was $501 million on sales of $8.5 billion, in contrast to a loss of $142 million on revenue of $7.8 billion in the quarter a year earlier. Operating profit rose to 5.9 percent from a negative 1.8 percent in the period a year earlier.
At the height of the crisis last year, Boeing warned that production of the 747 jumbo jet, which is the company's most profitable airplane, might fall to one a month because of the economic crisis in Asia. But the company announced yesterday what analysts and investors had assumed for months: 747 production will remain at two a month next year.
"The strengthening Asian economy looks like it will give us a smooth landing," Philip M. Condit, Boeing's chairman and chief executive, said yesterday during a conference call with analysts. He also predicted that demand for Boeing's passenger jets would remain flat in 2001 rather than decline from next year's projected level, as the company had previously estimated.
Boeing raised its forecast for its full-year operating profit margins to a range of 5.5 percent to 6 percent this year from its prediction of 4.5 percent in January. Next year's profit margins are expected to be 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent, Boeing said, up from a forecast of 3.5 percent to 5 percent earlier this year.
But Deborah Hopkins, Boeing's chief financial officer, said the company hoped to do better than that next year, even though Boeing's revenue is expected to decline by $11 billion as deliveries of passenger jets decline to 480 from 620. "Our challenge is to attempt to have 2000 earnings be equal or exceed 1999," she said. "That would require us to get to operating margins of about 7 percent for the total company."
Some analysts worried that Boeing might be cutting too much. Research and development spending was down for the third consecutive quarter. It has fallen 28 percent in the first nine months of this year, to $1 billion from $1.4 billion in 1998. But Ms. Hopkins said that the decline was temporary and that Boeing had earmarked enough research money to finance new planes, including a larger version of the 747.
Indeed, Boeing generated $1.1 billion in cash during the latest quarter after spending $1 billion buying 2.25 million shares of its own stock. It now has $2.8 billion in cash on its balance sheet.
Mr. Condit said that he was not worried by recent gains by Airbus Industrie, the European consortium, which has received orders for 329 jets this year, compared with 138 for Boeing, according to Merrill Lynch. Confirming a report that Frontier Airlines was the latest airline to choose Airbus's narrow-body planes over Boeing's 737, Mr. Condit said that Boeing could not match the low price offered by Airbus and still make a profit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE PHILIP M CONDIT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



335 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Harmful Vote

 BODY:
President Clinton's forceful and focused performance at yesterday's news conference must mark the beginning of a sustained White House effort to limit the damage inflicted by the Senate's reckless vote Wednesday against the nuclear test ban treaty. It will be up to Mr. Clinton to convince other nations, including those that have already signed the treaty, like Russia and China, and those that have not, like India, Pakistan and North Korea, that the United States remains committed to observing its provisions and eventually ratifying it in a new Senate vote. In these and other ways, his Administration must demonstrate America's continued determination to reduce nuclear dangers throughout the world. The Senate should want to send exactly the same message. Unfortunately, it did not.
With its abrupt scheduling, rushed debate and needless negative vote on the test ban treaty, the Republican Senate majority all but abdicated its constitutional responsibility to play a thoughtful and deliberative role in the shaping of American foreign policy. It also undermined Washington's ability to provide diplomatic leadership on one of the most important questions facing the world today -- controlling the development and spread of nuclear weapons. 
 With the United States now the world's foremost military and economic power, senators as well as presidents must rise to the challenge of international leadership, helping to project the moral vision of the American people onto the global arena. Too many senators failed this crucial test.
Senators have a complex and serious role to play on foreign policy matters. Their duty is not to assent passively to every presidential initiative, but to engage their own minds and consciences, particularly on grave questions of war, peace and treaties. Too many Republican senators shortchanged that duty by allowing the majority leader, Trent Lott, and a handful of committed treaty opponents to turn the test ban issue into a partisan arm-wrestling contest with the White House and Senate Democratic leadership.
At no time in the ludicrously compressed Senate debate was the country offered a serious alternative Republican view of how to contain the alarming development of nuclear weapons in South Asia and their potential spread to such troubled areas as the Middle East and the Korean Peninsula. Instead, many opponents spoke as if the United States could afford to turn its back on international arms control treaties and address the spread of nuclear weapons solely through superior military strength. As Mr. Clinton noted yesterday, that kind of armed isolationism makes little sense and offers no real security at the dawn of the 21st century.
America's most honored foreign policy tradition is bipartisanship. The Senate so rarely votes to reject major treaties that the last comparable precedent was Woodrow Wilson's defeat over the Treaty of Versailles nearly 80 years ago. That disastrous decision weakened Washington's voice in international affairs. This one threatens to do the same unless Mr. Clinton manages to keep alive some momentum for nuclear arms control and the Senate returns to its traditions of serious and constructive foreign policy debate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN SENATE (96%); WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (96%); WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WORLD WAR I (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



336 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Decline Further; 30-Year Yield Is Now 6.32%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Driven by some investors' concern that strong economic growth will prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates, bond yields climbed for a third consecutive day yesterday.
Prices of Treasury securities, which move in the opposite direction from yields, fell again on fresh evidence that consumers are buying more and paying more for imported goods. The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond declined 20/32, to 97 13/32. Its yield rose to 6.32 percent from 6.27 percent on Wednesday, the highest level since Oct. 22, 1997, when it reached 6.41 percent. 
 The Commerce Department reported yesterday that retail sales were up last month, but not as much as expected, while the Labor Department stirred market fears with a report saying that prices of imported goods kept rising last month.
Analysts argued that yesterday's figures had proved counterproductive for the bond market because they did not really suggest that the trend of strong consumer spending had changed.
Referring to the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, Donald Fine of Chase Asset Management said, "The bond market has been in a heightened state of alert for signs of inflation now that the F.O.M.C. is officially biased toward tightening, particularly in light of upcoming data that are not expected to be market-friendly."
He continued: "While the Fed specifically stated that it is not committed to any near-term action, a firming of its policy stance at the next F.O.M.C. meeting on Nov. 16 is a distinct possibility, and in fact is now expected by market participants, judging from the spread between the two-year Treasury note and the Federal funds rate. At this juncture, it would appear that only a sudden, significant deterioration in the economy's performance or imminent sharp contraction in the stock market could quickly alleviate inflation concerns and keep the Fed at bay."
Consumer spending, the key to the economic outlook, still seems healthy. September retail sales rose one-tenth of a percent, compared with the two-tenths of a point that had been expected. But, some argued, this did not seem to indicate a slowdown in the economy since it came on the heels of outsized increases of 1.5 percent and 1 percent in August and July, respectively.
Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns Securities, said the retail sales report masked powerful third-quarter growth. "U.S. consumers paused for breath in September," she said, "but the underlying trend remains undeniably strong. Even with the September lull, sales are still up a towering 10.5 percent from year-ago levels and they expanded at a healthy 9.5 percent annual pace in the third quarter."
Analysts are awaiting today's producer price figures. They forecast that the core and overall price figures will be up four-tenths or five-tenths of a percent, stronger than in recent months. "Each new piece of strong data is adding to fears that the Fed is falling behind," said Stanley Shepard of Standard & Poor's MMS in San Francisco.
Many investors are opting to buy corporate debt to give them a bigger yield cushion if inflation accelerates.
Robert Pugliese, fixed-income director at the J. W. Genesis Financial Corporation in Boca Raton, Fla., said he saw a lack of conviction in the market at this point, with not many people willing to make buying bets. "If the P.P.I. number takes an inflationary turn, I see the long-bond yield gravitating toward 6.5 percent," he said. "If it proves benign, do not expect a major rally, either."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



337 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise Again; Jobless ClaimsFall 29,000

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Retail sales rose in September as furniture and department stores reported their best months since early this year, Government figures showed today.
Retail sales rose one-tenth of a percent in September on top of a 1.5 percent gain in August, the largest in six months, the Commerce Department said. Compared with results in the month a year earlier, sales were up 10.5 percent, the second-highest year-over-year gain since March 1994. 
 When automobiles are excluded, the September increase was a larger-than-expected six-tenths of a percent after a gain of nine-tenths of a percent in August.
Spending could continue to gain as workers have little trouble finding jobs, a separate report from the Labor Department suggested today. First-time claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell below 300,000 last week after two weekly increases because of Hurricane Floyd.
"The U.S. consumer is not showing any sign of shopping fatigue," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist with Bank of Montreal and Harris Bank in Toronto. "Once you get past the impact of Hurricane Floyd, you have a tight labor market and robust consumer spending."
Federal Reserve policy makers have indicated they may raise interest rates again if strong economic growth leads to higher inflation. That has not shown up yet, even as a Labor Department report today showed that prices businesses paid for imports rose seven-tenths of a percent last month after rising 1 percent in August, both mostly because of higher oil costs. Excluding oil, September import prices rose one-tenth of a percent, the same as in August. Including oil, import prices have increased in six of the last seven months. Without it, they have changed little month to month.
Same-store sales at United States retailers rose 5.5 percent in September, according to industry figures released last week. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, reported a 7.2 percent increase in sales last month as shoppers stocked up on school supplies and bought provisions before Hurricane Floyd.
The home furnishing industry continues to benefit from record housing sales. The furniture makers Ethan Allen Interiors and Stanley Furniture reported record sales and earnings this week for the three months ended in late September.
Another inflation concern for Fed officials is whether the supply of available workers is dwindling so much that businesses will have to increase wages -- and eventually prices -- to attract and retain employees. Today's report on jobless claims did nothing to ease that concern.
First-time jobless claims fell 29,000, to a seasonally adjusted 285,000 for the week ended Oct. 9, Labor Department figures showed. The unexpected decline came after a gain of 12,000, to 314,000 claims, the previous week that was mostly a result of to work disruptions caused by the hurricane in mid-September.
The four-week average for claims, which smoothes out the volatile weekly data, fell to 293,750 last week from 294,500. That was the 12th week the average has been below 300,000, the longest such stretch since 1974. Jobless claims have averaged 300,756 a week so far this year, lower than the 1998 average of 316,000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" plots total retail sales, from April 1998 through Sept. 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (82%); BMO (NYSE) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); STLY (NASDAQ) (52%); ETH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (52%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (52%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (52%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (52%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BANK OF MONTREAL (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); STANLEY FURNITURE CO INC (52%); ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE RETAIL SALES (94%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INFLATION (89%); HURRICANES (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); IMPORT PRICES (86%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (79%); SAME STORE SALES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



338 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina High Court Derails Video Poker Games

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The country's largest video gambling industry faced extinction today when the South Carolina Supreme Court ruled that the state's 34,000 video poker machines must be unplugged by midnight June 30.
In a swift stroke, the court put an end to the most rancorous issue now confronting South Carolina, with all five justices voting to silence the poker machines that have taken root in virtually every convenience store and gas station in the state. 
 The poker machines were at the core of the state's election for governor last year, and public anger against them had produced a feverish campaign in recent weeks for a Nov. 2 referendum on whether the machines should remain legal.
That referendum was declared unconstitutional today by the Supreme Court, triggering a legal provision requiring the machines to be banned after June 30.
The surprise decision, the result of a legal miscalculation by one video poker operator, is the second major defeat this week for organized gambling in the South. On Tuesday, with the encouragement of religious leaders, voters in Alabama rejected a plan to create a state lottery for the benefit of education.
Church groups had also been active in South Carolina in campaigning against the video machines, which were called the crack cocaine of gambling in a recent national study because of their addictive nature. Joined by most of the state's business community and many of its politicians, the anti-poker effort had appeared likely to suffocate the state's $2.8-billion-a-year gambling industry at the ballot box. Polls showed 61 percent of expected voters planned to vote against the machines.
The court's ruling, however, said the referendum was unconstitutional because it improperly gave voters the ability to legislate, a right reserved for the State Legislature. The South Carolina Constitution, unlike those of some other states, does not contain a provision allowing referendums on legislative matters.
The court then went a step further and said that under the law authorizing the referendum, video poker could continue only if the voters approved. Because the referendum was illegal, the court said, the machines would have to be prohibited.
Opponents of video poker had helped write the law with this possibility in mind, because it was never clear that the public had a legitimate right to vote on the matter.
The video industry wanted the law to say that poker would stay alive unless it was killed by the voters, but legislators decided that poker would die unless it was kept alive by the voters. And the law explicitly said that if the referendum should be declared illegal the provision outlawing video poker would stay in effect. The high court upheld that section of the law.
Gambling opponents were overjoyed by the decision.
"We were watching on TV when it was announced, and there was a lot of shouting, high-fives, tears of disbelief, and joy," said the Rev. Steve Hogg, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Rock Hill and a leader of Change South Carolina, a prominent anti-poker group. "It looks the gambling industry knew they were going to lose at the ballot box, and one of them went to court to stop the vote. Boy, did that backfire on them."
In fact, most of the industry, fearing just such a ruling, had declined to challenge the referendum in court. But one small operator, Joytime Distributors and Amusements in Greenville, filed suit against the referendum law, hoping the entire law would be thrown out and the machines could stay.
Other operators filed briefs to get the lawsuit thrown out. But to the industry's chagrin, the court ruled that only the referendum was illegal, while the rest of the law banning poker was upheld.
Theoretically, the industry could persuade the Legislature to change the law, but legislative leaders said they were unlikely to revive the issue. Gov. Jim Hodges, a Democrat who accepted $3 million from poker interests last year, half his campaign treasury, but later announced he would vote against gambling, said today that the industry did not have the votes to revive itself.
"Clearly, as of June 30, the net result of this will be that video gaming will no longer exist in South Carolina," Governor Hodges said. "We will move on and talk about other important issues on the agenda in South Carolina."
One issue will be a state lottery, which will be on the South Carolina ballot in November 2000. Although Mr. Hodges built much of his campaign last year on support for a lottery, opponents of gambling hope the momentum from the effort against video poker will carry over into a defeat for a state numbers game, much like the vote in Alabama.
But video poker has far more opponents than the lottery. Business leaders have said poker is destroying South Carolina's image, and many people have been galvanized by the sight of impoverished poker players feeding money into the machines.
The poker industry, which had held out hopes that a statewide advertising blitz might persuade voters to keep their business alive, was clearly stunned by today' court ruling. Mike Fletcher, a spokesman for the South Carolina Coin Operators Association, said the state's 650 operators were so focused on the referendum that they barely knew how to respond to the ruling.
"It's the highest court in the state, so I don't know how you change that," Mr. Fletcher said. "We're all kind of shocked and saddened, but I guess we'll take some time to study the order and figure out where we go next. Fortunately, we're not out of business tomorrow."
He said there might be some way to convert the machines to nongambling amusements, like pinball, but he admitted that would make them far less popular.
Gambling supporters had warned that 28,000 workers faced layoffs if poker was outlawed, from repairers to store clerks to the attendants that were required by law to supervise every five machines. Even if that 28,000 figure was an exaggeration, it was clear that many people whose livelihoods came from the machines faced an uncertain future.
"The unemployment line is going to be out the door, and I'm going to be in it," said Chris Moskovic, assistant manager of the Slots of Fun video parlor in West Columbia, which has 10 machines. "This is like the state is telling me I have no rights, taking food from my family's table. It's pretty close to being communist."
Francis Rice, a cashier at Cherokee Games in Fort Mill, one of the casino-like parlors that cluster on the border with North Carolina, said she would miss the friends she had made among the parlor's regulars.
"This was one of the nice places," Ms. Rice said. "It was nicely decorated, and they even paid benefits. But I guess I could always go back to waitressing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The South Carolina Supreme Court yesterday ordered an end to poker machines in the state, like this one at a convenience store in Greenville. (Associated Press)
 

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (58%); 

CITY: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH CAROLINA SUPREME COURT (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA SUPREME COURT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH CAROLINA SUPREME COURT (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA SUPREME COURT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (58%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; POKER (CARD GAME); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; REFERENDUMS SUPREME COURTS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); POKER (90%); GAMING (90%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CARD GAMES (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (76%); POLITICS (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); RELIGION (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); LOTTERIES (52%); COCAINE (51%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID JIM HODGES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



339 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: 1999 PLAYOFFS: LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIPS;
Polar People Surfacing With Yanks and Mets In

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
I am in conflict, too.
Why shouldn't choosing between the Yankees and the Mets be as easy as choosing between the Beatles and the Stones, Apple and I.B.M., Lancaster and York, Good and Evil? It's just brand equity. Two ball teams. 
 But no. Ever since Dr. Margaret Mead and the sports pundits who also considered themselves anthropologists proclaimed the Yankees and the Mets rival tribes, their fans have been made to define themselves by the choice. When it merely leads to bar fights over who would win a Subway Series, there is no harm done. But when cultural, class and economic divisions are perpetuated, we have trouble here on River Avenue.
The anthro pop quizzes drive me nuts. Do you like opera? You're a Yankee fan. Do you shop at Kmart? You're a Mets fan. And this is supposed to be whether your seat is behind the dugout or behind the right fielder. Do you call them drapes or curtains, a couch or a sofa? From that answer, someone will be able to tell you that the rich man you admire is either Fred Wilpon or George Steinbrenner. Do you perceive cancer or mental illness as the frontier of health care discussion? From that answer we know you identify with either Joe Torre (recovering from prostate treatment) or Bobby Valentine (reveling in mood swings). This is sick.
And the lunch-pail versus humidor construct, polyester versus linen, Figaro versus Count Almaviva, is basically lame. The Mets of the 80's personified the stinking cigars of Wall Street, while Yankee Stadium has for years been overrun with low-rent slobs.
And not only is this lame, it also leads to the easy, dangerous thinking that there are only two kinds of people in the world, and the twain will never meet or merge or morph. Yea and behold, we call these polar people, Yankees or Mets.
So where does that leave me? I love them both. Differently.
I was born in the Bronx, as were my father and mother, and so my diapers were pinstripes (chalk stripes, actually, but that just leads us back to drapes and couches). My father wasn't impressed by Joe DiMaggio because he had grown up with the Babe.
During my childhood in Queens, there were three major league teams and no regional pressure. I always felt that Giant fans were arrogant front-runners and Dodger fans were sweatily righteous, but I did not make my choice based on rooting for the equivalent of U.S. Steel. I always thought the Yankees were the true outsider-immigrant-striver team. They were the best because of merit, not because swells trooped up to the Polo Grounds or poets found Elysium in Ebbets Field.
And then I met the Mets on my first important out-of-town assignment. I brought my glove to their opening spring training in 1962, which was also the first time I tried to hit major league pitching -- actually, it was a sore-armed coach throwing batting practice. For me, it might as well have been Whitey Ford. I have never lost respect. That day, I just went to the bar and let Mets Manager Casey Stengel talk and drink me under the table. He had also been manager of the Yankees.
In fact, three of the most interesting New York ballplayers of my times have been both Mets and the Yankees. David Cone as a young wise guy was one of those rich, victorious, out-of-control 80's Mets. He was accused of flashing in the bullpen. He was an outlaw hero of the tell-all tomes. Perfect David Cone is now an elder statesman of the Yankee locker room.
Darryl Strawberry, brought up before his time by the greedy Mets, never quite fulfilled his promise (Mets' management billed him as "the next DiMaggio") but he enjoyed and destroyed himself in the garden of earthly delights. Who resurrected him? The Boss.
And Marvelous Marv Throneberry, promoted as the quintessential Met when the team was lionized as the worst in baseball (it was the rebirth of irony), had come up as a Yankee bonus baby. He roamed the outfield with the Mick, pinch-hit in the 1958 World Series. Years later, he said: "I kind of think of myself as a former Yankee, not a Met. A man is always sentimental about his first team."
So, you see my problem and I see yours.
Let's leave it at this: There are only two kinds of people in the world; those who duck foul balls and those who stand up to catch them. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); BRANDING (57%); BRAND EQUITY (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (53%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT GEORGE STEINBRENNER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



340 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Times Co. BuysMassachusetts Paper for $295 Million and Posts Rise in Profit

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
The New York Times Company bought The Worcester Telegram & Gazette yesterday for $295 million, expanding its reach in Massachusetts, where it already owns The Boston Globe, and making a major investment in the newspaper industry, which is currently buoyed by record advertising.
The industry's boom was reflected yesterday in the Times Company's earnings report, which showed net income for the third quarter rising 9.2 percent, to $60 million, on revenue of $729.7 million. The revenue total was 6.9 percent above the 1998 third-quarter total of $682.7 million. 
 Operating profit, excluding such special items as the cost of work force reductions at The Boston Globe, rose 11.2 percent, to $112.8 million from $101.4 million, an increase spurred by a 9.9 percent increase in newspaper advertising revenue, which rose to $460.9 million.
Excluding the special items, the company earned 36 cents a diluted share, one cent above the consensus estimate reported by First Call/ Thomson Financial.
The company's purchase of the Worcester newspaper, with a daily circulation of 107,000 and a Sunday circulation of 134,000 in central Massachusetts, ended a lively competition among at least seven newspaper companies bidding for the remaining newspaper properties of the Chronicle Publishing Company, which sold its flagship, The San Francisco Chronicle, this summer to the Hearst Corporation.
One rival bidder, according to those who participated in the negotiations, was the Community Newspaper Company, which is based in Needham, Mass., and publishes dailies in Framingham and Milford, Mass., as well as more than 100 nondaily newspapers around the state. Another was the Denver-based Media News Group Inc., which owns five dailies in northern and central Massachusetts.
The competition among bidders reflects the desire of newspaper companies to consolidate, or cluster, their holdings in one geographic area, to gain efficiencies in everything from printing and distribution to advertising sales.
Nancy Nielsen, a spokeswoman for the Times Company, said that the company forecast economies in joint advertising sales between The Globe and The Telegram & Gazette as well as centralizing of newsprint buying, accounting and record-keeping.
According to one person who has inspected the paper's financial statements, the $295 million price was about 13.5 times the 1998 cash flow of The Telegram & Gazette -- a multiple well below that paid by Pulitzer Inc. to Chronicle Publishing for The Pantagraph, a newspaper in Bloomington, Ill., that has a circulation of 49,600.
Eight days ago, Pulitzer announced its acquisition of The Pantagraph for a purchase price of $180 million, representing a multiple of roughly 19 times 1998 cash flow, according to one newspaper company adviser who had seen the financial information circulated by Chronicle Publishing.
But the Worcester acquisition was still a strong reminder of the prices newspapers can command these days.
"The Worcester price is just reflective of the very strong state of the newspaper marketplace," said Owen Van Essen, the president of the newspaper brokerage firm of Dirks, Van Essen. He also said that newspapers the size of The Telegram & Gazette that dominate their markets -- the newspaper reaches 43 percent of the homes in Worcester County -- do not come on the market often.
Mr. Van Essen added, "There is bullishness in newspaper companies" -- a comment bolstered by recent increases in the share price of some newspaper companies. The Times Company, Knight Ridder, Dow Jones & Company and Times Mirror Company all hit 52-week highs within the last week.
The Worcester purchase, however, had little effect on analysts' views of the activities of the Times Company, particularly since the cash outlay for the deal is dwarfed by the $376 million the company has spent to repurchase its stock this year.
Two analysts, Lauren Rich Fine of Merrill Lynch & Company and Kevin R. Gruneich of Bear, Stearns, used the same word -- "nonevent" -- to describe the Worcester newspaper purchase.
Both analysts focused instead on the resurgence of advertising revenue at The Boston Globe, which took in $114.4 million in ad revenue in the third quarter, a 9.8 percent increase over the corresponding period in 1998. The New York Times newspaper took in $260.5 million in the period, an increase of 10.9 percent.
"The most pleasant surprise was the upward pivot in Boston Globe advertising," Mr. Gruneich said. He added that he also saw "some awfully good momentum at Times Company Digital" -- the division of the company that includes Web sites like nytimes.com and boston.com.
The number of registered users of The New York Times on the Web rose to 8.7 million, an increase of 900,000 over the June 30 figure.
Times Company shares closed yesterday at $40.4375, down 56.25 cents and off more than $2 from the record high of $43 reached on Monday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (94%); BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; BOSTON GLOBE; WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE HEARST CORP (95%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (95%); PULITZER INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER CO INC (BOSTON, MA) (66%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (58%); THE TELEGRAM&GAZETTE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; BOSTON GLOBE; WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE THE TELEGRAM&GAZETTE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (94%); BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); PUBLISHING (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); NEWSPRINT (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY VAN ESSEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



341 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: When Being Wrong Won't Hurt;
Economists' Ideas Are Valued More Than Their Forecasts

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
If the forecasts of Wall Street economists are often so wrong, how do they keep their jobs? How do they make any money?
Those are fair questions after a string of years -- including 1999 -- when many seers of Wall Street missed their calls on interest rates, were wrong on the direction of Federal Reserve policy, and substantially underestimated economic growth and even overestimated inflation. 
 From 1996 through 1998, for example, the consensus economic forecast at the start of the year turned out to be, on average, 1.4 percentage points below the actual annual growth rate, according to the Blue Chip Economic Indicators. And the consensus estimate for 1999 -- 2.4 percent as recently as January -- is already well below the 3.4 percent growth rate in the nation's gross domestic product for the first six months of the year. It is likely to be further off the mark for the full year.
The answer is that Wall Street economists forecast because they have to. But their money-making product is a stream of, they hope, good ideas about how the economy works that stimulates the thinking of the money managers that make up much of their clientele.
"People wanting to read what you write and learn how you're thinking about substantive matters is more important than whether you are precisely right in your macro forecasts of G.D.P. or interest rates," said Charley Ellis, managing partner at Greenwich Associates, which assesses Wall Street performance by interviewing institutional investors.
This research -- whether a long-term analysis of the surprising rise in productivity or an instant interpretation of the newest employment report -- plays an integral role in most Wall Street firms and smaller boutiques. Research is the everyday grist for a firm's sales representatives, who deal with clients on a regular basis. It is used to attract clients who then trade through the firm or compensate it in other ways, adding to profits.
"Research helps write trading tickets," said Donald H. Layton, Chase Manhattan Bank's vice chairman in charge of overseeing its global market business.
John Lipsky, the chief economist and the director of research at Chase, and Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, are two such economists from the 50-odd firms constantly scrambling to get the attention of money managers. Both, who themselves spend a third of their time seeing clients, have to regularly contend with the economists at the Wall Street leaders in this business, including Bruce Steinberg at Merrill Lynch and Stephen S. Roach at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
It is a business whose top players have not changed very much in the last several years, according to Greenwich Associates. But that only intensifies the challenge to come up with the Next Big Idea.
One of the most attention-grabbing ideas this year came from Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. He says that Year 2000 computer disruptions will cause a recession in the beginning of next year. Even if it proves wrong, the idea forced many money managers to address the issue.
But good ideas, right or wrong, are not easy to come by. "If we have three great ideas in a year that is a home run year," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Mr. Lipsky, 52, heads Chase's 120-person research team, which is striving to become one of the major players on the Street. He was chief economist at Salomon Brothers before coming to Chase in 1997. Before that he worked for Salomon in London and New York, after a decade at the International Monetary Fund.
"No one is able to consistently foresee specific market developments far into the future," said Mr. Lipsky, who speaks to hundreds of clients all over the world. "That is why forecasts are inevitably revised as new facts emerge." An economist's real job, he explained, is to "help our clients organize their own thinking, even if they come to different conclusions about market implications; we are doing the digging, analysis and thinking that they would do if they had the time."
Chase's 1998 forecast, done by Mr. Lipsky and his research staff, shows how a forecast can be off base on growth but still contain crucial insights. While predicting about 1.5 percent growth -- which was off by 2.4 percentage points -- Chase said that long-term interest rates would fall toward 5 percent, which was correct, and that inflation would decline to about 1.5 percent, also correct. A forecast that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates, based in part on the expected decline in inflation and helped by the deepening of the world financial crisis, was also on the mark.
For 1999, Chase has gone astray again, missing on interest rates, Federal Reserve policy and economic growth. On the other hand, overall inflation, although slightly higher, is still contained -- one of Mr. Lipsky's main themes. And the forecast of a stronger-than-expected dollar early in the year was a contrarian gem.
But Lee Thomas, senior international portfolio manager at the Pacific Investment Management Company in Newport Beach, Calif., the world's largest active bond manager, brushes off the muffs. "His forecast record changed from last year to this year," he said of Mr. Lipsky, "but the quality of his ideas has not changed.
"It is your job," Mr. Thomas said of money managers like himself, "to sit down and decide which idea makes sense and construct your own world view." It is the economist's job, he said, "to explain a theme that catalyzes my thinking."
Mr. Barbera, 47, left the heart of Wall Street after seven years at Lehman Brothers to become a sole practitioner at Hoenig & Company, a small brokerage firm based in Rye Brook, N.Y.
He scored this year with his contention that Japan's economy would rebound and, even more strikingly, last year with his contrarian theme that the pain in Asia would be a gain for the United States. Mr. Barbera reasoned, correctly, that the recession in Asia would lead to lower inflation, lower interest rates and more growth in the United States.
"I get paid for looking out for what might change the conventional view," Mr. Barbera said. "There is a small list of portfolio managers who think I have something to deliver, and we talk."
Paul DeRosa, a partner at Mount Lucas Management, an asset management company in Princeton, N.J., and one of Mr. Barbera's 60 clients, said: "The money is made and lost in interpreting situations as they develop."
And this is what he counts on from Mr. Barbera. In summer 1998, as the Asian economic crisis spread to Russia and Latin America, Mr. DeRosa said that Mr. Barbera was quick to say that the situation would force the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates, which it did three times.
While getting this right, Mr. De Rosa said that Mr. Barbera did not foresee the big rally in the bond market that occurred the previous year.
The de-emphasis on economic forecasting, obviously, is partly a result of being wrong so often. But it also reflects how the once-revered job of forecasting has become little more than a basic commodity in a world where just about everybody has access to his own black box.
"I can decide what way interest rates are going," said Rob Kapito, vice chairman of Black Rock Management, an asset manangement company, and a client of Mr. Lipsky.
The decline of forecasting is reflected in the name change of the National Association of Business Economists to the National Association for Business Economics. The association's membership has fallen substantially as many corporations turned from reliance on teams of macro-economists who were supposed to predict the overall economy to smaller groups of micro-economists focused on specific markets.
In addition, forecasts, even when they are right, are no longer enough for most clients. With just a forecast, Mr. Barbera said, "you are simply asking clients to bet on your black box, and good portfolio managers won't do that."
What portfolio managers do want instead is easy access to good idea merchants.
Mr. Thomas of Pacific Investment, who sees Mr. Lipsky three to five times a year, said that he narrowed the choice of whom he traded through based on the quality of the ideas from the economists he talked to. And despite Mr. Lipsky's forecasting misses, Chase is being called as often as last year.
And on the other end of the trade, Peter Frey, the head of credit market sales at J. P. Morgan Securities, said: "It is not clear that there is a good correlation between how precise our forecasting calls are and our pay back. The correlation between the access and dialogue we give our clients and our payback is clearer."
Firms also rely, at least in part, on their economists' views when they bet their own money on movements in the market.
Mr. Lipsky's views are considered, for example, when Chase stress tests its own bets in the financial markets to assess the amount of risk it is taking. His sense that the world's economic crisis was deepening in the summer of 1998 played a role in Chase's decision to count on interest rates to decline as investors ran to the safety of the bond market.
"We act with even more conviction when the views of the economist are aligned with those of the traders," said Ina Drew, head of the domestic treasury at Chase. That successful bet was one reason Chase reported record earnings in the fourth quarter last year even as some of its rivals reported profit declines for the same period.
Mr. Layton also said that Mr. Lipsky's connections to international financial leaders around the world can help in getting underwriting business for the bank when countries, especially in emerging markets, issue new debt or privatize a state-owned company.
Economists are also useful to money managers who disagree with their views. Mr. Kapito of Black Rock Management, for instance, said that although he disputed Mr. Lipsky's argument that inflation would remain contained, the reasoning helped Black Rock form its own view that inflation was at a bottom and likely to move higher, even if only modestly. And on this basis, Black Rock decided to buy more of the Treasury's bonds that are indexed to inflation and rise in value when inflation expectations rise.
Mr. Barbera likes to provide his clients with what he calls signposts. For example, as early as February this year he was writing that the Japanese economy would recover this year. Along with his reasons for the recovery, he listed developments money managers could watch on their own to see if the recovery was developing along the lines he predicted. For example, Mr. Barbera said that the confidence level among the exectivies of smaller Japanese companies would rise and that the bankruptcy rate would fall.
"I happened to agree with that, and so we made a small play in Nikkei futures that have done very well," said Mr. De Rosa of Mount Lucas Management.
"You cast a wide net," Mr. Barbera said, "and try to catch on to one or two things that have changed in a specific fashion that could have an impact on things. But you never catch it all."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROBERT J. BARBERA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, HOENIG & CO.; JOHN LIPSKY, CHIEF ECONOMIST, CHASE MANHATTAN. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Hit and Miss"
Economists surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators have consistently underestimated the growth rate for the nation's gross domestic product in recent years but they have been more accurate on the rate of inflation. Here are their January forecasts each year compared with the actual results.
 
Graph compares projected economic growth with actual economic growth from 1990 through 1999.
 
Graph compares projected inflation rates with actual inflation rates from 1990 through 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; HOENIG & CO HOENIG & CO INC (63%); HOENIG & CO LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; HOENIG & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (87%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; LIPSKY, JOHN; BARBERA, ROBERT J DONALD H LAYTON (52%); DONALD H LAYTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



342 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Being Exclusive Draws Big Crowds;
Private Schools Enjoy a Boom, But Demand Exceeds Growth

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
The crowds around the tables were three people thick.
In an East Side gym as steamy as a summer subway platform, 1,300 parents and children gathered up pamphlets, conversed with admissions officers in their most polite tones and ticked names of exclusive schools off their lists. 
 For most attending this open house on Sept. 27, the hunt was on for a spot in a private school kindergarten that costs up to $18,750, almost as much as a starting teacher in a public school made just a few years ago. While in past years a pint-size chair in a private school could usually be found for every well-heeled preschooler who applied, this year the admissions crowding is the most intense and frenzied in a long time.
"People are thinking about it: Is this going to be the year when we can't serve everyone?" said Cynthia Bing, head of the school advisory service for the Parents League of New York, which assists parents in their search for private schools and sponsored the open house at the Loyola School at East 83d Street and Park Avenue.
As the open house made clear, these are flush times for New York City's private schools.
With personal fortunes ballooning in the strong stock market, applications are rising, at some schools by 50 percent over three years. At the Trinity School on the Upper West Side, for example, there is a waiting list just to get a tour and interview for kindergarten.
Endowments are also growing -- Grace Church School in Greenwich Village quintupled its investments in five years -- and fund-raising has grown easier. A city that appears safer and saner is more attractive to live in, stemming the exodus to the suburbs by school-age children of privilege. And more parents seem to be convinced that private school is a shortcut to an Ivy League degree, even at a cost of up to $20,000 a year.
"The real driving factor is people have more discretionary income today than they did five or six years ago," said George Davison, head of the Grace Church School, who watches admissions trends as chairman of the committee of trustees for the Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater New York. "I'm not sure whether that is driven by the birthrate, or by people doing well enough that they feel they can afford independent schools and not move to Mamaroneck or many of the suburbs where they would go before."
In such a bullish climate, more than a dozen top schools are constructing or buying up new buildings, sometimes just to catch up with the growth of the past few years. The Brearley School on the Upper East Side has added a field house. The Horace Mann School in the Bronx is adding 90,000 square feet for classrooms and an arts center to its Riverdale campus. Also in the Bronx, the Riverdale Country Day school recently bought several buildings and seven acres from Manhattan College for an arts center and sports.
Outside the city, schools like Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H., are experiencing similar growth. Exeter, which has seen a 12 percent rise in applications over the last five years along with a 17 percent rise in the size of its freshman class, broke ground recently on a $38 million science building.
To the dismay of many applying families, the building boom has not translated into a matching surge in the numbers of students admitted, at least in the most competitive and expensive schools. The schools say they want to remain small and intimate, while indulging their students with science labs, sports complexes and arts centers that most colleges would envy.
"We have decided that we are at the cap -- to expand beyond this would change the nature of the school," said Mr. Davison, adding that Grace Church has a record enrollment this fall. "With 394 kids I can know them all, and all the teachers and most of their parents and dogs and baby sitters and all of that," he said. "If we added another section of each grade, another 180 kids, the dynamic becomes very different."
That is bad news for parents like Nadine Morrison, a recent survivor of a nerve-racking application and interview season, who barely found a spot for her kindergartner, Oliver. "It's a horrible process," she said, after picking up her son from school. He was turned down at three exclusive schools, including one that had only six openings for kindergartners.
"It's very competitive, very stressful, and they reject your child based on I don't know what," she said. "They're only 4 1/2 when they take these tests, and it's kind of elitist in a way. It's just that it's ludicrous for children that age, to have to go through the stress."
Oliver now commutes -- 70 blocks, 45 minutes -- to the Trevor Day School on the Upper East Side, where, she said, he is very happy.
Even older students, like Steph anie Paseornek, 11, are feeling the admissions squeeze. She is now in the sixth grade at the Caedmon School on the Upper East Side, which does not have a middle school or high school, so she has to apply for limited spots in seventh-grade classrooms next fall.
"I want to move out of the city," Stephanie said in frustration.
She is interested in a handful of the top-tier private high schools, but she said the application process is so daunting that she wants her family to move anywhere -- she suggested New Jersey or Los Angeles -- to avoid going up against the competition.
Victoria Goldman, co-author of "The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools" (Soho Press, 1999), which provides capsule descriptions of almost 70 schools in the New York region, said children are often able to find placements even if they are not accepted in the first round of admissions.
"The smaller, more gentle, less competitive schools are getting a little bigger, because that's where the overflow's going," she said.
Nationally, the private school student population has grown 16.8 percent in the last 10 years, with 4.1 percentage points of that growth coming in the last two years, according to the National Association of Independent Schools. In New York there has been an increase of about 3.9 percent in private school admissions since the 1997-98 school year. The public school population during the last decade grew 15.3 percent.
Nowhere is the boom as palpable as in the new private school buildings popping up like new BMW's around the Upper East Side, Upper West Side and Riverdale in the Bronx. In the last three years many of the most prestigious schools have used the vigorous stock market to expand their campuses, adding new buildings or taking over adjoining brownstones.
At Brearley, a $25 million fund-raising campaign built a field house and two new floors, and response was so enthusiastic that the school increased its goal to $30 million, said Lewise Lucaire, development director. The girls' school's endowment rose from $25.6 million in 1994 to $49.8 million this year, she said, adding that some of the endowment would cover scholarships for students whose families cannot afford the $17,000 annual tuition for 12th graders.
After a $25 million capital campaign, Horace Mann added two buildings designed by Gruzen Samton, the architectural firm that designed Police Headquarters. The Chapin School added a gym, two-floor library, theater and foreign language lab in 1998, when it also added a kindergarten. The Dalton School, which like Chapin is on the Upper East Side, built a gym and a science center that increased space for the science program by 25 percent.
On the West Side, Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School, which expects a 7 percent increase in enrollment, has plans to build a 26,000-square-foot building for fifth and sixth graders, with construction slated to begin in June.
Manhattan schools like Collegiate, Spence, Friends Seminary, Trinity and Buckley have also either gone through renovations or built or bought new buildings recently, as have Marymount, Ramaz, St. Aloysius, Rodeph Sholom and Churchill in Manhattan and Poly Prep Country Day School and St. Ann's in Brooklyn.
The booming stock market has helped the bank accounts of the private schools significantly. The endowment at Grace Church School, for example, grew to more than $5 million this year from $1 million in 1994, in part through donations, in part through an 18 percent growth in investments. The school has been able to increase its size by 8,000 square feet in the last six years and accommodates a third more students than a decade ago.
Some school officials note that with the increased competition, families are applying to more schools than they might have in previous years. "Part of it is they're less certain about where they want to go," said Lisa Moreira, director of admissions at Horace Mann, "and as it gets more competitive, it's smart for them to hedge their bets and have lots of options available to them as well."
Brian Walsh, headmaster of the Buckley School, said that in the last three or four years there were more applications to Buckley, a boys' school on the Upper East Side, but not necessarily more children applying to private schools overall. Approximately the same number of students have taken the Educational Records Bureau test in nursery school, but their parents are applying to three to five schools, instead of two. Two mothers at the open house said they planned to try for 10.
Helena Yien, whose son, Garrett, 5, now attends kindergarten at St. David's School on East 89th Street by the Guggenheim Museum, helped him apply to six schools. He got into three.
"It's difficult, very difficult, and awful," she said. "There are just a lot of interviews with different schools, and it's not one appointment per school, but usually three."
Many school administrators have been careful to increase their endowments to support new buildings so they can avoid being overextended if the growth they have been enjoying should falter.
If that time comes, it would be harder to preserve the current popularity of private schools.
Catherine Hausman, co-author of the guide to private schools, noted: "Admissions are robust and the schools are healthy, but all it takes is a downtick in the economy and you'll see admissions dropping like the Dow."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The expansion at Horace Mann School in the Bronx. In Manhattan alone, private schools that have recently expanded or renovated include Chapin, Dalton, Collegiate, Spence, Friends Seminary, Trinity and Buckley. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Aided by a $25 million campaign, Horace Mann School in the Bronx, one of many private schools with new construction, has added two buildings, including an enclosed commons. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Volleyball on the Upper East Side in the Dalton School's new gym. Tuition is $19,800 for seniors. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Days of Plenty at Private Schools"
Chart shows several statistics for New York City's elite private schools. (Source: "The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools"; the school offices)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: GRACE CHURCH (67%); NEW YORK CITY'S PRIVATE (55%); PHILLIPS EXETER ACADEMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILLIPS EXETER ACADEMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; FINANCES; ENROLLMENT; PHILANTHROPY PRIVATE SCHOOLS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); CHARITIES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, TINA GEORGE DAVISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



343 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Treasury and Fed Reach A Compromise

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
After decades of bickering over control of the nation's banking system, the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve announced today that they had reached an agreement, resolving one of the last outstanding issues in the fight to overhaul the nation's financial system.
The compromise, brokered in the early morning by Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary, and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Fed, was disclosed shortly before lawmakers met to reconcile the few remaining differences between competing measures that had already passed in the Senate and the House. 
 The legislation still has privacy and lending provisions that the White House says fail to adequately protect consumers and the disadvantaged, but the compromise significantly increased the odds of passage of a sweeping financial services bill that President Clinton may ultimately agree to sign. The legislation would repeal laws like the Glass-Steagall Act, fashioned by the banking crisis of the 1930's, that had sharply limited the ability of banks, securities firms and insurance companies from expanding into each other's businesses.
"The Treasury-Fed agreement puts us closer than ever before to writing financial- services-modernization legislation," said Representative Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican who is chairman of the conference committee. "Let's finish the job."
Lobbyists said the deal was certain to put pressure on the lawmakers to change the legislation in a way that the President would be able to sign it. Still, by this evening, the measure under discussion still had provisions, objectionable to the White House, that watered down the Community Reinvestment Act. That act requires banks to make loans to minorities, residents of inner cities, farmers and others who have historically had trouble getting credit.
White House officials said tonight that the President still intended to veto the legislation unless major changes were made on the provisions in the Community Reinvestment Act.
Despite those provisions, there was broad optimism today that Congress was nearing completion on legislation that would significantly reshape the nation's financial services industry.
For years, a central stumbling block to overhauling the system has been an arcane regulatory turf fight between the Treasury Department's Comptroller of the Currency, which supervises nationally chartered banks, and the Fed, which oversees bank holding companies. By allowing insurers, bankers and investment bankers to enter each other's business, any new legislation would have to prescribe a corporate structure for the new financial conglomerates, and as such, would ultimately dictate which agency had primacy.
The debate traces its roots to the establishment of the Federal Reserve in 1913, and the tension that followed between the Fed and the executive branch over both of the banks and the carrying out of economic policy.
The issue now has no practical significance for either consumers or most banks. But it has been an enduring struggle between two of Washington's power centers. The squabbling between a long line of Treasury secretaries and Fed chairmen had inevitably stalled any efforts at trying to eliminate the legislation adopted during the Great Depression and later that has limited the cross-ownership of banks, insurers and investment banks.
The Fed wanted financial service conglomerates to keep their banking, insurance and securities functions separate and under the umbrella of a holding company. The Treasury proposed giving banking companies the option of organizing financial service companies as operating subsidiaries of the parent company.
The Treasury maintained that it needed to play a big role in bank oversight so that the executive branch could carry out economic policy. But over the years officials at the Fed had two replies.
One was that the central bank would be unable to carry out monetary policy without some control over a large portion of the banks. Mr. Greenspan also maintained that financial conglomerates should organize under a holding company so as to prevent the banks from using certain Government subsidies to their advantage as they expand into new areas like investment banking and insurance. Those subsidies include deposit insurance backed by the Federal Government, access to credit through the discount window and a Federal clearinghouse.
The agreement brokered a few hours after midnight this morning by Mr. Summers and Mr. Greenspan is as complex as you would expect to get from the two economic engineers and Ph.D.'s.
Administration officials said that under the compromise, both agencies would continue to play significant roles in overseeing the nation's banks and emerging financial conglomerates. The deal provides for operating subsidiaries of banks to underwrite securities. After five years, a subsidiary could also engage in merchant banking activities if jointly approved by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. Banks interested in insurance underwriting and real estate development would have to set up separate affiliates.
The agreement also imposes certain other financial safeguards intended to protect the banking components of a financial conglomerate because those units have insured deposits ultimately backed by the Federal Government.
The agreement requires, for instance, that the aggregate asset value of the financial subsidiaries of a bank not be greater than 80 percent of the bank's assets. And the equity capital in the subsidiaries cannot be greater than 20 percent of the bank's equity capital. Finally, the assets of all the financial subsidiaries of a bank would not be able to exceed $50 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRIVACY; CREDIT; CONSUMER PROTECTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSURANCE; COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); INSURANCE (88%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); BONDS (77%); VETO (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC); GREENSPAN, ALAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (71%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



344 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Clintons Obtain New Loan for House, Without Friend's Help

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton have secured new financing on the house they are buying in Chappaqua, N.Y., the White House said today, enabling them to drop an earlier loan arrangement that had come under sharp criticism.
The new loan, for $1.36 million, is in the form of a 30-year adjustable-rate mortgage with an annual interest rate of 7.5 percent for the first three years, said Jim Kennedy, a White House spokesman. After the first three years, the rate will be set at the one-year Treasury bill rate plus 2.75 percentage points, he said. The current Treasury bill rate is just under 5.5 percent. 
 Asked whether the Clintons obtained new financing so they could cancel a much-criticized arrangement they had with a prominent Democratic Party fund-raiser, Mr. Kennedy said: "I'm aware of that speculation. Once they had the initial contract, a number of different mortgage companies came forward with different options. This one made the most sense."
Mr. Kennedy said the loan is from PNC Mortgage, a subsidiary of the PNC Bank Corporation of Pittsburgh. The Clintons are to make a down payment of $340,000, or 20 percent of the purchase price of $1.7 million, and are to close on the deal on Nov. 1, Mr. Kennedy said.
He said the party fund-raiser, Terry McAuliffe, has no role in the loan from PNC Mortgage. When the Clintons decided to buy the white-shingled, five-bedroom Chappaqua house in September, Mr. McAuliffe agreed to guarantee a mortgage with $1.35 million of his money as collateral. That mortgage was to have been with Bankers Trust Private Banking, a unit of Deutsche Bank, and its initial interest was calculated at just over 6.5 percent.
Mr. McAuliffe is a good friend of the Clintons and is raising millions of dollars for their legal defense fund and for a Presidential library to be built in Little Rock, Ark. The First Couple's eagerness to accept his help brought criticism from Republicans and public-interest groups who said the arrangement smacked of special treatment and might constitute an illegal gift.
The Clintons' move to Westchester County will clear the way for Mrs. Clinton to run for the Senate from New York State, which she seems likely to do. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has been widely mentioned as her likely Republican opponent, had questioned the propriety of the arrangement with Mr. McAuliffe, signaling that the issue would be a hot one in a campaign against Mrs. Clinton.
Mr. Kennedy said that when the Clintons decided they wanted the house in Chappaqua, their situation was like that of other couples who fall in love with a house and know they must make a solid offer quickly or risk losing out. "They had a very short time to put together the financing," Mr. Kennedy said.
But in other ways, the Clintons' situation is hard to compare with those of other people their age. While they list slightly more than $1 million in assets, they have about $5 million in legal bills, a debt that might make it hard for other couples in their 50's to qualify for a mortgage.
On the other hand, former Presidents of the United States have been able to command lucrative speaking fees and big book advances. And both Clintons are lawyers.
Before Mr. McAuliffe offered his help, the Clintons sought financial aid from former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and two former White House chiefs of staff, Erskine B. Bowles and Thomas F. McLarty 3d, who declined to help, according to several people familiar with the couple's house-hunting.
Principal and interest payments on a 30-year mortgage at 7.5 percent are just over $9,500 a month, exclusive of taxes and insurance. The taxes on the Chappaqua house are estimated at $26,000 a year.
Mr. Kennedy said several lending institutions had offered their services to the Clintons after the flurry of publicity about the house in Westchester. The PNC Bank Corporation advertises itself as one of the biggest financial-services organizations in the country. It says that PNC Mortgage provided more than $6 billion to more than 43,000 borrowers in 1997.
"Buying a home is one of the biggest financial decisions you'll ever make," PNC Mortgage tells prospective borrowers on its web site.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (68%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PNC MORTGAGE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (68%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PNC MORTGAGE WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; HOUSING; MORTGAGES INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); LIBRARIES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STOUT, DAVID; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; MCAULIFFE, TERRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JAMES KENNEDY (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



345 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Court Backs Law Docking Legislators

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 14

 BODY:
New York's highest court upheld a bitterly contested law today that calls for withholding the pay of state legislators when a state budget is late, bolstering efforts to speed up the state's notoriously slow budget-making process.
In a 6-to-1 ruling, the Court of Appeals overturned a lower court decision that declared the new law unconstitutional on the ground that it had the potential to coerce the State Legislature into passing a budget and thus curbed its legal authority and independence. 
 In December, as part of a deal with Gov. George E. Pataki to raise the salaries of lawmakers for the first time in a decade, the Legislature agreed to pass a law that would penalize legislators if a budget was not in place by the April 1 deadline: They would not be paid until one had been passed.
The law, the only one of its kind in the nation, was considered an important victory for Mr. Pataki, a Republican whose tenure has been marked by passage of the latest budgets in state history. That happened despite his promise to deliver budgets on time, which he made in 1994, when he first ran for governor.
But the law was immediately challenged in court by 14 Democratic state legislators, who maintained that it gave the Governor coercive powers over the Legislature that were unconstitutional. The 14 plaintiffs either voted against the new law or were elected in November and had not taken office when it passed.
In a strongly worded decision on May 21, Justice Richard D. Huttner of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn found that the law gave the Governor a coercive power over the Legislature, violating the State Constitution.
"When even one legislator, by dint of economic circumstance, is coerced into passing a budget that may require him or her to sacrifice conscientiously held beliefs, then the entire process is tainted," he wrote.
The Court of Appeals rejected the plaintiffs' claim of coercion. Writing for the majority, Judge Joseph W. Bellacosa said that all lawmakers "are entitled to the presumption that they act only in accordance with and fulfillment of their oaths of office."
The court also rejected the plaintiffs' assertion that the new law violated the constitutional separation of powers by transferring power from the Legislature to the Governor, noting that the law had been passed by both houses of the Legislature.
"The Legislature has decided to restrict itself and discipline its own work and power in this fashion," Judge Bellacosa wrote. He added that the law was a "credit to the legislative branch's internal management practices," not a surrendering of power.
The decision elicited predictable responses from both sides. The law's opponents said that it could subvert the legislative process, while its supporters said that it gave lawmakers a powerful incentive to do their work in a timely manner.
Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader in the State Senate, who was one the law's chief sponsors, issued a statement this afternoon chiding Democrats for bringing the lawsuit instead of focusing on completing the budget on time.
"Now that this issue has been resolved by the court," he said, "I once again urge all parties to renew the effort to enact budget reform so that we can help restore the public's confidence in our ability to do our jobs well and to do them within the parameters set by law."
But Alexander B. Grannis, a Democratic Assemblyman from Manhattan who was one of the plaintiffs, said the ruling was not just a setback for lawmakers. "We're disappointed," Mr. Grannis said. "But the real losers are the citizens of New York, who will never know whether we have passed a budget because we believed it was the right budget or because we wanted to get our pay to feed our families."
For all the legal wrangling it spurred, the law did not produce, in its first year, anyway, the result its supporters desired: the adoption of a budget on time. Instead, lawmakers adopted a budget on Aug. 4, 126 days into the current fiscal year, tying the record for lateness.
To get by, many legislators borrowed money or dipped into their savings accounts. If anything, some lawmakers said, the law served only to deepen the hostilities between the Legislature and the Governor, whose pay was not withheld.
For more than two decades, it has been almost impossible for a timely budget to be adopted in Albany. The budget has been late 21 times since 1975, largely because the Legislature has been divided during that period, with the Assembly controlled by Democrats and the Senate in the hands of Republicans.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (95%); BUDGETS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPEALS (78%); POLITICS (76%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



346 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: LIPA Delivers Ultimatum On Shoreham

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., Oct. 14

 BODY:
Delivering an ultimatum in his long battle with Suffolk County, the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, Richard M. Kessel, said today that county officials must agree by Monday to a $625 million settlement for past overassessment of the Shoreham nuclear power plant or share in paying the full $1.3 billion he said the authority was owed.
An immediate cash payment of $1.3 billion -- rather than a negotiated payment through electric rates over many years -- would present a financial crisis requiring property tax increases, large-scale borrowing or a combination of both for the county, the Town of Brookhaven and the Shoreham-Wading River School district, officials of the governments and the district have said. 
 Mr. Kessel said that if the County Legislature failed to act by Monday, the power authority would move immediately to collect the $1.3 billion that court rulings have said the authority may collect from the county, the town and the school district. Each would pay about a third, he said.
"Let's enter into this settlement and put this issue behind us," Mr. Kessel said at a news conference here today. He said that County Executive Robert J. Gaffney, the town, and the school district had agreed to the settlement, but that it still needed the approval of the County Legislature. "We have asked the Suffolk legislature time and time again to settle this matter for the good of the ratepayers of Long Island, including their own constituents," Mr. Kessel said. "It's time for them to stop playing politics."
But legislators said they had no plans to meet before the deadline. "We're not going to be threatened by LIPA," said Michael M. D'Andre, the deputy legislative presiding officer. He said the county would await the outcome of an appeal challenging the authority of LIPA to collect the money.
George O. Guldi, chairman of the legislature's LIPA negotiations committee, said, "This is not a rational way to formulate policy or decide the fate of ratepayers and taxpayers on Long Island."
The county is seeking permission to appeal a unanimous ruling in July by the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court that upheld the authority's right to recover the excess Shoreham plant taxes.
Mr. Kessel warned that if the county's appeal fails, the authority will no longer be able to negotiate a settlement for a lower amount.
The settlement provides that Suffolk electric customers repay the $625 million through electric rates. Even though Suffolk has not agreed to the settlement, the authority has already begun collecting it through rates that are about 2 percent higher than in Nassau County.
The school district Superintendent, Edward Tronolone, said the district would be unable to pay. "I can't even imagine what it would mean if we had to pay that much money," he said. The plant, which was mothballed in 1989, is in the school district, which is in the Town of Brookhaven.
Mr. Kessel said today that the authority would resume payments in lieu of taxes to the school district that were provided for in the 1993 state takeover of the Shoreham plant. The takeover removed the plant from tax rolls.
The school district warned this week that it was owed $4.8 million in LIPA payments and would close by the end of the month unless it got the money.
Mr. Kessel said the authority would resume payments because the district had agreed to support the $625 million tax settlement, but did not specify an amount. Mr. Tronolone said the district would be relieved by payment of any amount. "A starving person doesn't turn down food," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); 

PERSON: KESSEL, RICHARD M RICHARD M KESSEL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



347 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Con Ed Posts Drop in 3d-Quarter Earnings

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Consolidated Edison Inc. posted a slight dip in third-quarter profit yesterday as costs from Hurricane Floyd and a summer heat wave pulled earnings below analysts' expectations.
Con Edison, which announced this week that it would acquire Northeast Utilities for $3.29 billion in cash and stock, posted a profit of $336 million, or $1.50 a diluted share, compared with $347 million, or $1.49 a share in the period a year earlier. 
 Analysts had expected the company to earn $1.51 a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
Con Edison, which provides electricity to New York City and its northern suburbs, said that quarterly earnings were helped by higher electric revenue resulting from the warmer-than-normal weather, continued strength in the New York City economy and a common stock buyback program, which reduces the number of shares outstanding.
"These factors were offset by the costs incurred in recovering from Hurricane Floyd and its aftermath and by increased electrical distribution expenses associated with the very hot summer weather," the company said in a statement.
Con Edison's electric sales volume in New York in the first nine months increased 4.3 percent compared with figures in the period a year earlier.
Gas sales and transportation volume increased 6.2 percent, and steam sales volume also increased 6.2 percent, primarily because of colder winter weather in 1999 compared with that of 1998.
Through the end of the third quarter, Con Edison bought back 17 million shares, amounting to almost $790 million of its previously announced $1 billion stock buyback program. The company said it expected to continue the repurchase plan.
Before the results were announced, shares of Con Edison closed up 87.5 cents, to $37.25. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (97%); NU (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (97%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (97%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (97%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (97%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); WEATHER (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



348 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: States' Big Suits Against Industry Bring Battle on Contingency Fees

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
A growing wave of lawsuits by cities and states against makers of cigarettes, guns, and now lead paint, has reignited a fierce debate over the role of lawyers and the enormous fees they can earn in legal actions brought by public officials.
The issue erupted after prominent plaintiffs' lawyers, hired by state attorneys general to sue cigarette makers, earned billions of dollars in contingency fees as a result of the $246 billion in settlements with the companies. Now some of those same lawyers, who only get paid if they win a case or settle it, have been hired by states and cities to sue gun makers and lead paint producers. 
 As part of a business counteroffensive against the trend, the United States Chamber of Commerce will soon begin an intensive lobbying campaign to get legislatures to drastically restrict states' use of contingency lawyers. Recently, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas signed a law, backed by companies, that sharply limited the ability of the state's Attorney General to hire contingency-fee lawyers.
The question has split legal experts. Economically strapped elected officials need the skills and resources of outside lawyers to handle difficult cases, they say. "It levels the playing field because the other side is relying on very skilled lawyers," said Robert L. Rabin, a professor of law at Stanford University.
But the interests of those lawyers can conflict with those of the public.
"The fees can be out of line with the amount of work and effort that is actually put in," Mr. Rabin said.
Some cities suing the gun industry have decided to use their own lawyers, rather than outside counsel.
Under the legislation proposed by the Chamber of Commerce, any outside lawyer who contributed more than $250 to the campaign of a public official would be barred from being hired to pursue a lawsuit. Jim Wootton, executive director of Institute for Legal Reform at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that provision would restrict influence peddling. Plaintiffs' lawyers, though, have contributed largely to Democratic candidates, while the business interests they sue have traditionally supported Republicans.
The law would prohibit a state from changing any laws that could affect litigation while the state sued an industry or even contemplated such a lawsuit, Mr. Wootton said.
Mr. Wootton said limiting the use of contingency lawyers was a vital issue for industry. "We think this is one of the biggest threats facing American industry today," he said.
The latest challenge came on Tuesday when Rhode Island's Attorney General, Sheldon Whitehouse, sued eight paint companies and a lead industry group to seek payment for the treatment of children poisoned by lead paint and for its removal.
The case will be handled by the firm of Ness, Motley, Loadholt, Richardson & Poole of Charleston, S.C., which represented some two dozen states in tobacco cases, earning hundreds of millions in fees in the process. Rhode Island will pay 17 percent of any award or settlement to the firm, which is financing the lawsuit and is in talks with other states about similar actions.
Other tobacco veterans are also posed to jump in. Richard Scruggs, a Pascagoula, Miss., lawyer who represented that state and some 20 others against cigarette makers, has had talks with public officials interested in suing. And Steve Berman, a Seattle lawyer who represented several states, including Washington, in their tobacco case, said he had discussed lead paint lawsuits with two attorneys general.
Many legal experts believe that such high-powered law firms can play a valuable role in public litigation because they have financial resources to spend years, if necessary, tracking documents, interviewing witnesses and aggressively fighting pretrial motions.
John Coffee, a professor of law at Columbia University said he believed that it would be a "disaster" for the public if the type of legislation being promoted by the Chamber of Commerce was adopted.
But Mr. Coffee also voiced concerns about potential conflicts between lawyers who donate heavily to the campaigns of officials who can hire them. And other legal experts said that outside lawyers could have a financial stake in settling a case that might be at odds with the broad public's goals.
"The public might have been interested in getting more concessions from cigarette companies in return for taking less money," said Susan Koniak, a professor of law at Boston University.
Mr. Berman, the plaintiff's lawyer in Seattle, said he believed that outside lawyers representing states cut the best deals possible in striking settlements with tobacco companies. But he acknowledged that some of the huge legal fees awarded in those cases had fueled the larger controversy.
Last year, lawyers representing the first three states that settled -- Florida, Mississippi and Texas -- were awarded $8.2 billion. The staggering fees prompted public uproar, particularly in Texas, where one lawyer, Marc D. Murr of Houston, who appeared to play little role in the litigation, sought $260 million in fees.
Faced by a state investigation, Mr. Murr, whose request was supported by the former Texas Attorney General who hired him, backed down. But this year, Republican lawmakers with the backing of business groups passed legislation requiring the State Attorney General to have contingency-fee contracts approved by a board appointed by top state officials. Legal fees could not exceed $4,000 an hour.
Utah legislators also passed a bill this year requiring that state's Attorney General to get approval from the Governor before filing a civil lawsuit. But after the State Attorney General, Jan Graham, threatened to challenge its constitutionality, she struck a deal with lawmakers under which her office will keep the Governor informed about any litigation.
Cities that are heading the legal assault against gun makers have taken different stances on outside lawyers. While some, like New Orleans, Atlanta and Newark have hired lawyers involved in tobacco cases under contingency deals, others like Chicago are using their own lawyers.
Mr. Berman, the Seattle plaintiff's lawyer, said those various approaches had apparently created some conflicts. Recently, for example, when lawyers representing several cities suing gun makers and a few states considering such actions met with manufacturers, cities that had hired outside lawyers were excluded from the talks.
Along with suing gun makers and paint producers, some of the tobacco lawyers like Mr. Scruggs have also filed actions against health maintenance organizations, saying they had failed to provide policyholders with promised benefits. And Mr. Coffee, the law professor, said he would not be surprised if public entities like cities soon took similar actions.
"If you look over the horizon, the filings on behalf of state plaintiffs tend to come after the lawsuits filed on behalf of individuals," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES ROBERT L SIGMON (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LEGAL PROFESSION; ETHICS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; FIREARMS; STATES (US); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PAINTS AND PAINTING; LEAD; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; GUN CONTROL LAWYERS (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); FIREARMS (90%); LEAD PAINT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEAD (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); SMOKING (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEAD POISONING (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ;MEIER, BARRY; OPPEL, RICHARD A JR SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



349 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: DEFEAT OF A TREATY: THE ARMS EXPERTS;
A Nuclear Safety Valve Is Shut Off, but U.S. Maintains Other Safeguards

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
The test ban treaty defeated in the Senate yesterday was a critical foreign policy objective of the Clinton Administration, but it was far from the only component of the Government's strategy to control the proliferation of nuclear arms -- which embraces a menu of measures ranging from broad treaties to tailor-made solutions like sanctions aimed at rogue countries.
Thus, according to arms control experts, the Senate action was unlikely to have immediate effects on American efforts, for example, to curb nuclear development in such nations as North Korea, Iraq and Iran. "There is no single solution to the problem of proliferation, only multiple, complementary solutions, and the Senate has just taken away one of the solutions," said Michael Krepon, president of the Henry L. Stimson Center, a research institute that examines arms control issues. 
 For years, Washington has marshaled a variety of carrots and sticks in its efforts to combat proliferation and curb nuclear arsenals. These include arms control accords with the old Soviet Union; economic and political incentives to persuade non-nuclear nations not to build the bomb, and the threat of political and economic isolation against those who do.
In a speech in July, the Administration's senior arms control official, John D. Holum, acting Under Secretary of State for arms control, listed seven major elements in the Administration's policy, starting with the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty of the 1960's and the recent test ban treaty. He mentioned inducements to North Korea that include $40 million a year in fuel from the United States and the building of two power plants financed by South Korea and Japan in exchange for a freeze by Pyongyang on its plutonium production.
He also mentioned sanctions, which in the 90's have been imposed as punishment for bad nuclear behavior or lifted as a reward for improved conduct. Of sanctions, Mr. Holum acknowledged that "nobody likes them much." And he cited intrusive inspections of nuclear plants that are being carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
At the same time, the Administration is pushing forward on a series of traditional arms control deals with Moscow. The Start 2 treaty, which calls for the reduction of the two countries' nuclear stockpiles, has languished in the lower house of the Russian Parliament since 1993 and looks unlikely to be approved before legislative elections there in February. Linked to the passage of the Start 2 treaty are talks on Start 3, which would reduce arsenals from their cold war peak by 80 percent.
Mr. Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia agreed in June to begin talks on Start 3, although Administration officials acknowledge that the cuts required by Start 3 would face opposition in Congress.
Largely because of the failure of nonproliferation measures against nations like Iraq and Iran, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott has started pushing another possible deal with Moscow. That is a modification of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972, a move that would allow Washington to build a limited missile defense system as a shield against the weapons of emerging nuclear states. "We're looking at protection from a handful of missiles from the nations that the Central Intelligence Agency sees as having nuclear capacity a dozen years down the road," an Administration official said.
Last year, a panel led by former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned that North Korea and Iran could strike American territory with "little or no warning." A follow-up report gave ominous scenarios of what potential enemies could do against the United States in the next 15 years.
Administration officials said the Russians view the modification of the 1972 treaty as an effort to strip them of the last vestiges of superpower status, making the success of the new discussions fairly dim.
The most unpredictable and perhaps toughest problems for Washington, however, lie with what Mr. Holum called in his policy address the hazards. He listed India and Pakistan, Iraq, Iran and North Korea. Most of these have been addressed with a mixture of what Mr. Krepon of the Stimson Center called individually tailored "incentives and disincentives" to stop them from developing nuclear capacities.
Thus, after India and Pakistan each tested nuclear weapons last year, the Clinton Administration imposed a series of economic sanctions against the two countries and led the effort to curb lending by international financial institutions.
Then, as an incentive to get both to sign the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the sanctions were eased. India pledged to agree to the treaty after the elections that were just held. Pakistan offered to follow suit once India signed. Both these promises are now at risk.
For Iraq, the medicine was largely economic sanctions and United Nations inspections of suspected nuclear sites. But Saddam Hussein has refused to allow the inspectors back since last November's air strikes, and the sanctions appear to be crumbling.
A United Nations resolution under discussion offers Iraq the possibility of easing sanctions in return for a new inspection regimen. Whether it will be adopted by the Security Council remains unclear.
The Clinton Administration has tried to deal with Iran by placing sanctions on 10 Russian institutes suspected of helping transfer missile and nuclear technology to Teheran. The sanctions prevent the United States or private businesses from trading with the institutes. But such sanctions, officials said, do not deal with another, virtually untouchable problem: the flight of poorly paid and neglected Russian nuclear scientists to Iran.
Skeptics on the Clinton Administration's approach to North Korea complain of a "cycle of extortion" by the Communist authorities. Fear of North Korea's intentions intensified last year when it fired a missile that could potentially land weapons on the United States and when it threatened to repeat the exercise again this fall.
Last month, Mr. Clinton ordered the relaxing of a total trade embargo, imposed in 1950, in exchange for a temporary halt to tests of North Korea's long-range missiles. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE BILL CLINTON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



350 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Himalayan Error

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Ever since their independence, the U.S. has made decisions about India and Pakistan fully aware that it was dealing with countries that would have increasing political and military significance, for international good or evil.
 Now that both have nuclear arms capability and Pakistan has been taken over again by the hard-wing military, the American Government and people stare at them as if they were creatures that had suddenly popped out of nowhere -- and as if their crises had no connection at all to those 50 years of American involvement in the India-Pakistan subcontinent. 
 The destiny of the two countries -- war or peace, democracy or despotism -- lies with their billion-plus people, their needs and passions.
But American decision-making about them has been of Himalayan importance -- because from the beginning it was almost entirely based on a great error. America chose Pakistan as more important to its interests than India.
Both countries have a powerful sliver of their population who are plain villains -- politicians who deliberately splinter their society instead of knitting it, men of immense wealth who zealously evade taxes and the public good, religious bottom-feeders who spread violence between Hindu and Muslim in India and Muslim and Muslim in Pakistan.
But living for about four years as a New York Times correspondent based in India and traveling often in Pakistan, I knew that the American error was widening and catastrophic.
Although there were important mavericks, American officialdom clearly tilted toward Pakistan, knighted it a military ally and looked with contempt or condescension on India. Pakistan -- a country whose leadership provided a virtually unbroken record of economic, social and military failure and increasing influence of Islamicists.
Many U.S. officials preferred to deal with the Pakistanis over the Indians not despite Pakistan's tendency to militarism but because of it. Man, the military fellows can get things done for you.
Washington saw the country as some kind of barrier-post against China, which it never was, and against Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Pakistanis did their part there. But when the Taliban fanatics seized Afghanistan, Pakistan's military helped them pass arms for terrorists to the Mideast.
Pakistan's weakness as an American ally, though Washington never seemed to mind, was its leaders' refusal to create continuity of democratic governments long enough to convince Pakistanis that the military would not take over again tomorrow.
Across the border, India, for all its slowness of economic growth and its caste system, showed what the U.S. is supposed to want -- consistent faithfulness to elected democracy. Where Pakistan failed to maintain political democracy in a one-religion nation, India has kept it in a Hindu-majority country that has four other large religions and a garden of small ones.
Danger sign: The newly re-elected Hindu-led coalition will have to clamp down harder against any religious persecution of Muslims and Christians. India's real friends will never lessen pressure against that. And the new government is not likely to stay in office long if it does not fulfill its anti-persecution promises to several parties in the coalition.
No, the U.S. did not itself create a militaristic Pakistan. But by showing for years that it did not care much, it encouraged Pakistani officers prowling for power, lessened the public's confidence in democratic government when Pakistan happened to have one, and slighted the Indians' constancy to democratic elections.
In 1961, in the U.S. Embassy in Seoul, I heard the ranking U.S. diplomat urge Washington not to recognize the military gang that had just taken over South Korea after ousting the country's first elected government in its history.
But the Kennedy Administration did recognize the military government. That throttled South Koreans with military regimes for almost another two decades.
The Clinton Administration is doing what America should: demand the departure of the generals. Maybe America still has enough influence to be of use to democracy someplace or other in Asia. It's the least it can do for its colossal error on the subcontinent -- do for Indians, but mostly for Pakistanis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (97%); PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (87%); TALIBAN (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); TAX FRAUD (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



351 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: DEFEAT OF A TREATY: THE OVERVIEW;
Clinton Says 'New Isolationism' Imperils U.S. Security

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that the Republicans who defeated a treaty to ban underground nuclear testing were retreating into a "new isolationism" that threatened national security.
He pledged to abide by the treaty's provisions and warned countries with nuclear ambitions, like China, India and Pakistan, not to interpret the defeat as a signal that they were free to resume testing. 
 In an hourlong news conference, Mr. Clinton tried to make the best of what his aides conceded was a humiliating setback, one that some White House officials fear could lead foreign leaders to wait until the end of Mr. Clinton's term before seeking to strike deals with the United States.
With a series of attacks on Congress for what he called "reckless partisanship," Mr. Clinton made it clear that he hoped that Democrats would turn the defeat of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty into a campaign issue. He argued that the Senate's rejection effectively sent a four-word message to America's allies: "Go take a hike."
And he added, "By this vote, the Senate majority has turned its back on 50 years of American leadership against the spread of weapons of mass destruction."
Presidential candidates of both parties seized on the issue to defend the superiority of their approaches to foreign policy. Page A13.
Without a hint of the usual Washington bipartisan niceties toward the Republican leaders who organized the defeat of what was supposed to be the crowning achievement of his foreign policy, Mr. Clinton used the Senate vote to begin a sweeping denunciation of the Republicans on the full range of domestic issues -- the budget surplus, Social Security, education, the environment, Head Start, taxes, Medicare, medical research and air-traffic safety. Text of news conference, pages A14, A15 and A16.
"I say to the Congressional majority, 'Enough is enough,' " Mr. Clinton said. "We've got a job to do for the American people. It is not that difficult. Let's just do it."
By announcing his resolve to abide by the provisions of the first major treaty rejected by the Senate since 1920, Mr. Clinton was essentially challenging the Republican aspirants for President to say whether they would resume underground explosions in the Nevada desert, a policy change that would invite other nuclear powers to do the same.
"Now, if we ever get a President that's against the test ban treaty, which we may get," the President said, the world should know that "all bets are off."
"We'll have Russia testing," he said. "We'll have China testing. We'll have India testing. We'll have Pakistan testing. We'll have countries abandoning the nonproliferation treaty."
Republican Presidential hopefuls were careful to focus their criticism on specific flaws in the treaty and not to dismiss the notion of banning nuclear-weapons testing altogether. Republicans in Congress were quick to reject the isolationist label. They shot back that the Senate had simply voted against the treaty because it could never be confident that China, Russia, North Korea or others had truly abandoned testing.
"Since the substance, the facts, were not with the President or with the supporters of this treaty, they are saying, 'Oh, well, it was politics,' " the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, said. "That was absolutely not the case."
Although the rejection and the reaction to it dominated the news conference this afternoon, Mr. Clinton also used the occasion to press his case against the budget that Republicans are assembling and to lay out America's agenda for what is likely to be a noisy, protest-filled meeting of the world's top trade officials next month in Seattle.
Mr. Clinton said he would veto any spending bill that eliminated his plans to increase education spending, specifically for additional classroom teachers and computers. The current Republican plan for across-the-board spending cuts would eliminate many of those programs.
He also said he was willing to negotiate over an increased tobacco tax, a tax that most Republicans oppose.
Only once did Mr. Clinton begin to sound defensive, when a reporter questioned whether the White House, by inattention or ineptitude, was partly responsible for the defeat of the treaty.
Though he insisted that he had spoken "30 times" about the need to approve the treaty, his aides have acknowledged that he made little effort to build support until Republicans caught the Administration off guard by putting it on the agenda for a speedy vote. Only then, as one adviser to Mr. Clinton said today, "did everyone discover that there was a wildly wrong estimate of where we were on this thing."
Now Mr. Clinton faces a delicate dance. He has to convince his domestic audience that the Senate has made a terrible mistake, and he has to persuade other nations not to take his defeat as carte blanche to abandon the treaty themselves or to challenge Mr. Clinton's authority.
A delay in the vote would have made that two-step much simpler. On Tuesday, when it appeared possible that Democrats and Republicans would strike an agreement that would delay a vote until after the next President took office, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said, "There is an enormous difference between a postponement and a defeat."
An outright defeat, Mr. Berger said, could vitiate American credibility and "give other countries a pretext" to resume testing.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged that prospect today, and he specifically warned India and Pakistan, neither of which has signed the treaty, against interpreting the Senate vote as a green light to proceed with their nuclear-weapons programs.
"Let me say to India and Pakistan, 'Do not take yesterday's vote as a sign that America doesn't care whether you resume nuclear testing and build up your nuclear arsenals,' " Mr. Clinton said. Such a move, he added, " 'will hurt your economy and endanger your future.' "
At the same moment, he acknowledged that the message that the vote sent would be a confused one. He said he told three ambassadors whom he saw on Wednesday night, hours after the vote, that they should tell their governments that he remained "in a battle with the new isolationists in the Republican Party."
But he expressed confidence about not reversing the United States' "commitment on nonproliferation," and he insisted that the treaty remained on the Senate calendar, even though there is no interest, in either party, in reviving it.
It is far from clear whether the vote will become a potent election issue over the next year. Without a clear threat from the likes of the former Soviet Union or China, nuclear politics do not have the resonance that they did when Lyndon B. Johnson ran a campaign advertisement in 1964 of a giant mushroom cloud.
But Mr. Clinton made a run at reviving that strategy. "Imagine the world we will live in if they prevail," he said of the Republicans, whom he accused -- three times -- of isolationism.
He suggested that the Republicans' ultimate goal was to wipe out all arms-control accords and leave the United States free to expand a huge advantage. "They think we ought to go it alone," he said.
In a lengthy aside, the President said that if the conventions on nuclear arms and chemical weapons were swept aside, military budgets would soar, not only in the United States but elsewhere. He painted a picture of countries' diverting money from education and health care to the military and raised the fear that Japan, which has pledged never to possess nuclear arms, might be forced to reconsider that position.
Republicans and some nuclear experts questioned whether Mr. Clinton was stretching to make his point. Japan has never seriously been tempted to build weapons, despite years of tests by Russia and China, and India and Pakistan have been living under mutual nuclear threats for years.
On economics, Mr. Clinton said he welcomed the thousands of protesters who say they will sweep into Seattle for the meeting next month of the World Trade Organization, where Mr. Clinton hopes to begin a new round of trade talks.
"I welcome them," he said, adding that they would help his drive to "put a more human face on the global economy." But, he said, "if their fundamental view is, 'If we had less trade instead of more,' " workers would prosper and countries would hold on to more wealth, "that is simply not true. So I want an expansive trade round that helps America and helps them, too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: 
Photo: President Clinton at his news conference yesterday afternoon in the East Room of the White House. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; CHINA; PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TREATIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); BUDGETS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; LOTT, TRENT (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



352 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 9783 words

HEADLINE: DEFEAT OF A TREATY;
Clinton at News Conference: 'Troubling Signs of New Isolationism'

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the news conference today by President Clinton, as provided by the Federal News Service:
 
Opening Statement
 
PRESIDENT CLINTON: Good afternoon. Thank you.
In recent days, members of the Congressional majority have displayed a reckless partisanship. It threatens America's economic well-being and now our national security. Yesterday, hard-line Republicans irresponsibly forced a vote against the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. This was partisan politics of the worst kind because it was so blatant and because of the risks it poses to the safety of the American people and the world. 
 What the Senate seeks is to abandon an agreement that requires other countries to do what we have already done; an agreement that constrains Russia and China, India and Pakistan from developing more dangerous nuclear weapons; that helps to keep other countries out of the nuclear weapons business altogether; that improves our ability to monitor dangerous weapons activities in other countries. Even worse, they have offered no alternative, no other means of keeping countries around the world from developing nuclear arsenals and threatening our security. In so doing, they ignored the advice of our top military leaders, our most distinguished scientists, our closest allies. They brushed aside the views of the American people and betrayed the vision of Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, who set us on the road to this treaty so many years ago.
Even more troubling are the signs of a new isolationism among some of the opponents of the treaty. You see it in the refusal to pay our United Nations dues. You see it in the woefully inadequate budget for foreign affairs that includes meeting our obligations to the Middle East peace process, and to the continuing efforts to destroy and safeguard Russian nuclear materials.
You see it in the refusal to adopt our proposals to do our part to stem the tide of global warming, even though these proposals plainly would create American jobs.
But by this vote, the Senate majority has turned its back on 50 years of American leadership against the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
They are saying America does not need to lead either by effort or by example. They are saying we don't need our friends or allies. They are betting our children's future on the reckless proposition that we can go it alone, that at the height of our ---- and prosperity, we should bury our heads in the sand behind a wall.
That is not where I stand, and that is not where the American people stand. They understand that to be strong, we must not only have a powerful military; we must also lead, as we have done time and again, and as the whole world expects us to do, to build a more responsible, interdependent world.
So we will continue to protect our interests around the world. We will continue to seek from Congress the financial resources to make that possible.
We will continue to pursue the fight against the spread of nuclear weapons. And we will not, we will not, abandon the commitments inherent in the treaty and resume testing ourselves. I will not let yesterday's partisanship stand as our final word on the test ban treaty.
Today I say again on behalf of the United States, we will continue the policy we have maintained since 1992 of not conducting nuclear tests. I call on Russia, China, Britain, France and all other countries to continue to refrain from testing. I call on nations that have not done so to sign and ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. And I will continue to do all I can to make that case to the Senate. When all is said and done, I have no doubt that the United States will ratify this treaty.
Partisanship also threatens our economic security. Exactly one week from today the continuing resolution I signed on Sept. 30 to keep the Government running will expire. And yet Congress is not even close to finishing its work. At this time of unprecedented prosperity we must ask ourselves why is the Congressional majority so unwilling or unable to make the tough choices?
Why would we not be willing, or why would they not be willing to send me a responsible budget that saves Social Security, that strengthens and modernizes Medicare, that honors the priorities of the American people, and that clearly continues to pay down our debt, keeping interest rates low and the economy growing?
When I signed the continuing resolution two weeks ago, I urged Congress to roll up its sleeves and finish the job the American people sent them here to do. I said they should stop playing politics, stop playing games, start making the necessary tough choices. Instead, we have the Republicans lurching from one unworkable idea to the next. Instead of sending me bills I can sign, the Congressional majority is still using what The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and others have called budget gimmicks to disguise the fact that they are spending the Social Security surplus. Their own budget office says so.
We've even seen them try to raise taxes for our hardest-pressed working families. Now they're talking about across-the-board budget cuts that could deny tens of thousands of children Head Start opportunities, drastically reduce medical research, sacrifice military readiness, jeopardize the safety of air traffic control. One day they raise the spending, the next day they talk about cutting it again.
I say to the Congressional majority, enough is enough. We've got a job to do for the American people. It is not that difficult. Let's just do it. We can work together. We can fashion a budget that builds on our economic prosperity and continues to pay down the debt until it is eliminated in 2015 for the first time since 1835; that extends the life of the Social Security Trust Fund to 2050, the life expanse of almost all the baby boomers, and that invests in our people and our future, especially in our children's education.
The American people want a world-class education for their children. They want smaller classes, more qualified teachers, more computers in the classrooms, more after-school programs for the children who need it, more Head Start opportunities to insure that our children all start school ready to learn. The majority so far has failed to come forward with a plan that protects these goals. I believe these goals are worth fighting for, and that's what this debate is all about.
They want to keep -- they want us to keep making their communities safer, that's what the American people want. They want us to stay with a plan that has resulted in the lowest crime rate in 26 years. They want us to continue to put more cops on the beat and get guns out of the wrong hands.
The majority wants to take us off that course and derail our progress. I want to keep us on track in education, in crime and the budget, and Social Security and Medicare.
The American people want us to stand up for the environment by preserving our treasured landscapes and enhancing our communities' quality of life. The majority would roll back our progress there, too. I want to build on it. That's what this debate is all about.
I want to work with Congress to fulfill these important obligations. We have proved we can do it with the welfare reform bill, with the Balanced Budget Act, with the budget last year in the teeth of a partisan election season, which made a big down payment on our goal of a hundred thousand teachers. We need it again, a workable bipartisan budget process.
We don't have that today. We have got a week to go. They have got to go to work.
There are legitimate differences of opinion, but we can put an end to reckless partisanship, to gimmicks and gamesmanship. We can put people first and make a principled, honorable compromise. We can work for a season of progress, not a winter of politics. And I am committed to do just that.
Thank you. Helen?
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Mr. President, hasn't the treaty rejection really wiped out our moral authority to ask other nations around the world to stop testing? And was there -- do you think there was a personal element in the Republican -- a personal vendetta against you in the turndown ---- Republican?
A. Well, to answer the first question, let me say I had the occasion to run into three ambassadors last night of nations that strongly support the test ban treaty, and they were concerned. They didn't know what to say to their Governments back home. And what I told them was that we were in a battle with the new isolationists in the Republican Party. They see this treaty against the backdrop of the failure to pay the United Nation's dues, the failure to shoulder some of other responsibilities, the failure to pass a bill that would meet our obligations to the Middle East peace process and our obligations to keep working with the Russians to take down their nuclear arsenal.
But what I told them was the American people always get it right, and we are not going to reverse 40 years of commitment on nonproliferation; that the treaty is still on the Senate calendar, that it will be considered, that we have to keep working forward, and that I have no intention of doing anything other than honoring the obligations of the treaty imposed on the United States.
So I urged them not to overreact, to make clear their opposition to what the Senate did, but to stay with us and believe in the United States, because the American people want us to lead toward nonproliferation.
Now as to the second element, there were a number of partisan considerations, including some bad feelings between the Republicans and Democrats in the Senate, because the Republicans didn't want to bring this up at all, and then they didn't give us a legitimate process when they did. If you compare the debates here, one day of hearings here, with 14 days on the Chemical Weapons Convention, over 20 days on the INF treaty under President Reagan, this was not a legitimate process.
Now I know some people made some personal remarks on the floor of the Senate in the debate. But you know, it's been my experience that very often in politics, when a person is taking a position that he simply cannot defend, the only defense is to attack the opponent. And that's what I took it -- as a form of flattery. They knew they didn't have a very strong case, and so they were looking for some excuse for otherwise inexcusable conduct, and it didn't bother me a bit.
I think it only exposed ----
Q. Revenge against you.
A. No. I think it only exposed the weakness of their argument. I think that it had a lot more to do with what's going on in the Senate and what they think will happen this year and next year. But ----
I say that because if it did, that would be even worse for them. I mean, the idea that, you know, we would put the future of our children in peril and the leadership of America for a safer world in peril for some personal pique I think is unthinkable. I just think when you've got -- sometimes I've seen people, and they've got a very weak argument and they know they don't have a very strong position, they think that maybe they can deflect the analysis of their vote and their argument by attacking their opponent. That happens from time to time, and you can't take it too seriously.
Terry?
Q. A question about politics, Mr. President. Do you agree with Vice President Gore's characterization of Bill Bradley as a disloyal Democrat, and how much of a difference would it make if Senator Bradley were the Democratic nominee instead of Vice President Gore?
A. I am not a candidate in the Democratic primary and I do not think I should become one. I had to do that twice before, and I enjoyed it very much. But I don't get a third shot.
So what I would say to you is, as all of you know, I think Al Gore has been by far the best vice president in history.
He's certainly had more influence over more areas. I think that he is doing well in his campaign. I think he made a good decision to go home to Tennessee. And I expect him to win. But I expect to support the nominee of my party, as I always have. And I think that I can serve no useful function by talking about anything other than the issues. If you want to ask me an issue question related to any of them, I'll be glad to answer it, but I'm not going to get into that kind of horse racing.
Yes?
Q. Given the military coup in Pakistan, are you now more concerned about the prospect of a war between India and Pakistan? And what can you do to calm tensions?
A. Well, obviously, we have been in touch with the Pakistanis. We don't like -- we don't like it when military leaders forcibly displace elected governments, and we've made that clear. We've had our differences with Pakistan over the years that have been sometimes sharp. We've also had strong alliances in many areas. I still believe Prime Minister Sharif did the right thing to take the Pakistani troops behind the line of control and defuse what could have turned into a war, even a nuclear exchange.
And so I appreciate that. And I would hope that the military government will soon transition to a civilian one, and that I would hope that nothing would be done at this time to aggravate tensions between India and Pakistan. I mean, India just had an election. Prime Minister Vajpayee has now been returned for another period of service. I think they have an opportunity to resume their dialogue and to de-escalate the tensions.
And again, let me say to India and Pakistan, do not take yesterday's vote as a sign that America doesn't care whether you resume nuclear testing and build up your nuclear arsenals. We do care. You shouldn't do it. It's not necessary. It will hurt your economy and endanger your future. That's our message to Pakistan, and we hope they will move to a civilian government as quickly as possible.
Claire.
Q. To what extent do you think that you and the White House bear some responsibility for the outcome of the vote yesterday? There have been a lot of people heavily involved, supporters of this treaty, who say the White House didn't begin an effective lobbying effort early enough. And I wonder whether you also think that the year of scandal played some role in that, that the White House was just unable to work on this ----
A. No.
Q. ---- the way it should have.
A. For one thing, since I signed this treaty -- Let's look at the facts here, I've spoken about this 30 times or more. We always start a big public campaign in terms of White House events and other things -- go back and look at this; look at Nafta; look at -- look at the chemical weapons convention, go back -- when we know that we're on a hearing schedule and we're going to have a vote.
Until we were given 8 or 10 days notice, we had no earthly idea there would ever be hearings, much less a vote on this. So this whole thing came as a complete surprise to us.
When we realized that we had 8 or 10 days on a subject that we thought they had decided in a very determined way not to bring up, because Senator Helms had made it clear that he didn't want to bring it up and he wouldn't even talk about it till he disposed of two other treaties that he said were ahead if it, in his consideration -- we had no earthly idea that it was going to be on the Senate calendar. So we did our best.
We kept asking, and we thought if we ever got a yes, the yes would be like the yes we got on Chemical Weapons: "Yeah, we can have this vote in a couple of months. We'll have two or three weeks of hearings." If we'd had a normal process, you would have seen a much more extensive public campaign. There was simply no time to put it together. But I talked about this over and over and over again in many different contexts, and I think that given the time we had, we did the best we could.
And besides that, once it became clear to me that they not only were going to force this close vote, but that they weren't going to do what they do in every single treaty where there is serious consideration; namely, to allow the senators of both parties to offer safeguards, to offer reservations, to offer clarifications so that the treaty means something.
If you remember, the only way we ever passed the Chemical Weapons Treaty is when the Senate, including Senator Helms, participated with us in a process that led to over 20 explicit safeguards and reservations. That's what the Senate is supposed to do.
We said ourselves, that we thought the treaty required six safeguards that we hoped would be put on it. And they said, "Not only are we going to make a vote on the treaty, we are not going to let you put your safeguards on it." So I think that ought to give you some indication of what was afoot here. We did the best we could with the time we had.
John?
Q. ---- was there not a public lobbying effort; but behind the scenes the sense that for a long time the Republicans were lobbying against this treaty, when the White House wasn't lobbying ----
A. Well, but ----
Q. ---- very effectively on Capitol Hill?
A. ---- you know, first of all, I just don't accept that. They told us that they had no interest in bringing it up; it wasn't going to come up. We had no reason to believe we could do it.
But before we can lobby the members, we have to have some sense that we are lobbying them for something. And every time you talked to somebody, they said: "Well, that's not even scheduled. That's not going to come up."
And I think the interesting thing is how many made commitments before they heard any arguments one way or the other.
John?
Q. But Mr. President, given the importance you placed on this, why did you wait until 5:15 yesterday to first call the Senate majority leader?
And as part of the same question, if you were the Government of China and publicly stated on the record that you're looking to modernize your nuclear arsenal, why would you not take this now as a green light to test? And will you do anything to try to convince the Chinese not to do so?
A. Well, let me answer the first question first. The one thing I did not want to do, once it became obvious -- I had nothing to do with the schedule the majority leader imposed on the treaty, and I had no advance knowledge of it, so I couldn't have talked to him before then. At that point, he had contact -- I believe he and his office -- he personally and his office had contact several times a day with Mr. Berger every day from then on out.
What we were trying to do was to preserve the opportunity. Just to deal with the question Helen asked in the beginning -- you know, if anybody was out there saying, "Well, this is about President Clinton" -- and we were trying to preserve the opportunity for him and Senator Daschle to make an agreement so that the Senate could do this, the Senate could put it off, could schedule hearings to deal with it in an orderly fashion.
Then, as you may know, the night before the vote, Senator Lott and Senator Daschle did in fact reach an agreement to put it off. And Senator Lott apparently was unable to convince enough of his caucus to honor the agreement he had made, so he had to withdraw.
And it was at that point that I called him to see if there was anything else we could do.But we were in constant contact with his office, and Mr. Berger talked to him innumerable times. I would happily have talked to him. I thought I was giving him some protection not to do it so that he and Senator Daschle could make an agreement and they could say the Senate did it out of concern for the national interest because it was manifestly the right thing to do. And I think Senator Lott believes today that putting it off was the right thing to do. I'm sorry it didn't happen.
Q. But on China --
A. Oh, China. Let me say -- well, I will say again, the Chinese have taken the position we have, that they won't test. I hope they will continue to honor it. All I can tell you is we're not going to test. I signed that treaty. It still binds us unless I go in effect and erase our name. Unless the President does that and takes our name off, we are bound by it. And we've not been testing since '92. So the Chinese should have every assurance that at least as long as this Administration is here we support nuclear testing.
Now, if we ever get a President that's against the test ban treaty, which we may get -- I mean there are plenty of people out there who say they're against it -- then I think you might as well get ready for it. We'll have Russia testing, we'll have China testing, we'll have India testing, we'll have Pakistan testing. We'll have countries abandoning the nonproliferation treaty.
The thing I was -- the reason I wouldn't make a commitment to Senator Lott not to bring this treaty up next year -- let's just put that out on the table -- apart from the President's prerogative, constitutional prerogative, there's a substantive reason. Four years ago, we got all the countries that were in the nonproliferation treaty, even more than have signed the test ban treaty, I think 176 of them, and they say they're either not going to develop nuclear capacity or, if they have it, they won't share it. It's very, very important.
And a lot of the countries that were edgy because their neighbors had nuclear capacity or because they had nascent nuclear capacity and they wanted to develop it more, they really wanted to know was there going to be a test ban treaty, so that if they stopped dead in their tracks, they wouldn't be discriminated against by people who were a little ahead of them who could test. And the United States took the lead in assuring them we would continue to work until we got a test ban treaty. So we did, and that's why I was the first person to sign it, not only because I believe in the test ban treaty but because I think it was essential to reinforce the nonproliferation treaty.
Consider how each of you would feel if you were running a country and you thought you had the scientific capacity to develop these kinds of weapons, and you had neighbors with them you felt threatened by, but they were a little ahead of you and they could test and you couldn't.
So the reason I -- what I told Senator Lott was, I said, look, I believe if next year we have indications that three or four or five countries are going to bail-out on the nonproliferation treaty, I could come to you and I could convince you that we should bring it up and, therefore, I cannot promise not to bring it up. But barring some international emergency, I wouldn't bring this treaty up until I thought we could get it ratified.
To me it's not a matter of personal credit, it's a matter of leaving in place for the future a framework that will maximize the safety and security of the American people and minimize the prospect of nuclear conflict around the world.
So that's where it is. I hope very much that people will see in the steadfast determination of this Administration and of the American people the determination to stay on this path, and I hope they'll stick with us. I think if we ever have a President and a Senate not for this test ban treaty, then all bets are off, you will see a lot of testing, and they'll bail on the NPT. That's what I think will happen. And we will be in a much, much more dangerous world. But we are not there today, and I hope I can discourage people from going there.
Mark? And then --
Q. But, sir, just as you had experts saying -- advocating the ratification of this treaty, the Republicans had experts saying that the treaty was dangerous.
Why can't you accept the vote as a good-faith expression of that opposition, rather than as a partisan attack?
A. Well, I have said every time that there were some Republicans who believed that in good conscience. The reason I can't accept it as only a matter of conviction, are the following reasons:
No. 1, they had a lot of people committed who didn't know very much about the treaty, who were asked to commit before there was ever an argument made.
No. 2, the objections about the treaty essentially fall into two categories:
One is that, notwithstanding the heads of the weapons labs, the entire military establishment and General Shelton's last few predecessors, the Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs, and these 32 Nobel laureates, there are people who say: "I don't care what they all say; I just don't believe it. I just don't think that they can preserve the security of the nuclear arsenal without testing, and even though we are spending $4.5 billion a year and we are going to spend more; and we are far more likely to be able to do that than any other country in the world, I just don't believe it."
Now, my answer to them was, So we put an explicit safeguard in the treaty, which says, "When we have evidence," which we don't have now, "that we cannot maintain the reliability of the nuclear deterrent; if at that time it is still necessary for us to do so, then we will have to give notice and withdraw." That's what you have these safeguards for.
It's in our supreme national interest.
The other major argument against the treaty was that there can be some cheating because you can't always be sure for underground tests under five kilotons, and particularly under one kiloton. The answer to that is that's true now. And this treaty makes it more likely that we will catch such things. That wasn't a good argument, because this treaty would give us over 300 sensors around the world. And those sensors are far more likely to pick it up. This treaty would give us the possibility of on-site inspection, something we don't have now. And this treaty would give us the possibility of marshalling a much stronger rebuke to any country that violated it than we do now. And there were other objects that were more minor compared to these two big ones. That's why we offered these six safeguards and invited the Senate to offer more.
There were objections like this to the chemical weapons convention. There are always going to be objections from the point of view of the country that feels it's in the strongest position. And that's why we have a process, an orderly process in the Senate to allow the Senate to put these safeguards on.
I think that's what Senator Byrd was saying yesterday when he voted "present" and condemned the process.
You know, keep in mind, I didn't ask them to ratify the treaty as it was written; I asked them to ratify the treaty with the six safeguards that would address those two major objections and some of the others.
Q. Mr. President?
A. Yes, Sarah.
Q. If you think the American people do agree with you on the fact we send our armed soldiers just everyplace in the world where's armed conflict?
A. Do I think what now?
Q. Do you feel that we, the American people, agree with the policy that we send armed soldiers to other parts of the country when we are not involved, but they are having an armed conflict someplace, and we send soldiers over there anyway?
A. Yes, but I think ----
Q. Do you think the American people -- do they agree with that ----
A. Let me say this: I think that the safer we make the world and the more we reduce the likelihood of war, the less likely we are to send people there.
But you know, this is another argument for cooperation, however.
There is another point I would like to make. The heads of the Governments of Britain, France, and Germany took the extraordinary step of writing an Op-Ed piece -- we don't have any better allies -- they took the extraordinary step of writing an Op-Ed piece, asking us to ratify this treaty and in any case not to defeat it. So this was also an amazing rebuke to our allies.
We say, "O.K., you guys are with every time we need you -- the gulf war, the Balkans, always in NATO. You're there. But you ask us to do something for your common safety? Go take a hike." And you know, I think that's a very tenuous position.
If you look at what we did, we took a very leading role in trying to stop the violence and promote the integrity of the referendum in East Timor, a long way away. The Australians, the New Zealanders, the other countries in that region, they stepped right up and took the lion's share of the burden. They didn't expect America to do that. They asked us to help them with certain services that we are capable of providing. But they stepped right up. They look to us and say, you know, "Keep leading the world toward nonproliferation. We'll do this work with you." We say to them, "Go take a hike." I think it was a very dubious decision.
Go ahead.
Q. Mr. President, a question on the budget. Are you saying that you would veto a Republican plan for across-the-board spending cuts? And since they are adamantly opposed to your tobacco tax hikes and your loophole closings, and both of you don't want to spend the Social Security surplus, what is the way out of this box to avoid another Government shutdown?
A. Well, first of all, I would veto a bill that I thought, here at the moment of our greatest prosperity when we've got a surplus, if they wanted to cut education and gut our effort to put more teachers in the schools, our efforts to give kids after-school programs, our efforts to do all the things we're trying to do in education, to hook up the computers to the schools by 2000, the Internet, all the classrooms to the Internet by 2000, all these things we're trying to do. Would I veto that? I would.
I would have to do that. I would have no choice. It would be unconscionable to think that America at it's moment of greatest prosperity, when we've got our first surplus in 30 years, is out there cutting education and several other areas. So yes, I would.
Secondly, I know for ideological reasons, they don't want to raise the tobacco tax, but just yesterday, one of their longtime allies, Philip Morris, acknowledged that cigarettes cause cancer. And we know that more needs to be done to get our kids off tobacco. And we know that raising the price of a pack of cigarettes is one of the best ways to do it.
So we, you know, they don't have to agree to raise it as much as I proposed, but it would help to sit down and negotiate that. If they don't like my offsets, what are their offsets? Maybe there are some other things we could agree on. We won't know unless we have a serious conversation.
I think the best way to do this is to avoid spending the Social Security surplus, even though it's been done every year for at least 16 years and was done before in times of deficits. This is a new thing, you know, not spending it. The only reason they're proposing not to spend it is that we have a non-Social Security surplus, though much smaller. There's a good reason not to spend it, and the good reason not to spend it is, No. 1, it will help us to pay down the debt and get this country out of debt in 15 years for the first time in 165 years. No. 2, it enables us to achieve interest savings, and those interest savings for, I believe, for five years should be put back in the trust fund, and that will run the life of Social Security out to 2050 and take into account the retirement of all the baby boomers. So I hope we can do it.
But in order to do it, we're going to have to make some hard decisions, but it looks to me like, though, the decisions that I propose to make are less hard than slashing education at a time of great prosperity, when you've got the biggest and most diverse student population in history or raising taxes on poor people, which was another one of their proposals, or all these gimmicks.
I mean, they proposed -- for example, if they do this 13-month thing, you know, where they just -- we spend the money this year but play like we're spending it next year, then they're just going to make an even bigger headache, we'll have the same headache next year, and we'll be here a year from now and you'll be asking me these same questions.
And so, I mean, they say that the ordinary operations of the Pentagon are an emergency. That's one of the things they're considering; the ordinary operations of the Pentagon are an emergency.
I think that will come as a surprise to people who have been working there for 10 or 20 years.
Yes, Susan?
Q. Mr. President, every four years the American people revise and adjust what they're looking for in the President they're about to elect, often in reaction to the President who's about to leave office. And I wonder, if looking ahead, what you think Americans are looking for in the President they'll elect next year, and if there are ways in which those qualities or qualifications are different from what they were looking for in 1992 and 1996 when you were elected.
A. Well, I think the one big difference is the country's going to be in good shape instead of bad shape. And so they're going to be, right now, unless something unforeseen happens by next February, we'll have the longest expansion in history, peacetime or wartime.
We'll have a 26-year low in crime rate, a 30-year low in the welfare rolls, a 29-year low in unemployment, the first back-to-back surpluses in 42 years. We'll have -- the social fabric of America will be mending. And the economy is lifting. We have a low in poverty rate of 20 years. So I think they'll be looking for things and thinking about, and they will know that they have a chance to shape the future in a way that we've not had in my lifetime.
And so I can only tell you what I think. What I think they will be looking for is someone who will offer big ideas about how to make sure that we deal with the aging of America, as we double the number of people over 65, how we deal with the explosion of children and their increasing diversity. I hope that they will say, we'll see a little bit in this debate on the gun safety issue in the Senate now, I hope they will say, "Well, it's fine we have got the lowest crime rate in 26 years. We want to vote for somebody that will make this the safest big country in the world."
And I hope they will say that they are now much more concerned than they were able to be in '92, when people were worried about how they were going to get from one month to the next, that they really, really want us to make a sustained effort to bring opportunity to all the people and places that are still trapped in poverty.
And I hope they will say that -- they have been given a new issue now -- I hope they will say that they don't want America to adopt a new isolationism; they want us to lead into the future.
So there is a different sort of thing there. I also think that they want somebody who can deal in a sensitive way with the continuing evidence we have of violence in our country and of people manifesting all kinds of bigotry that, in its most extreme version, you see in the killings in the Middle West and the shootings at the Jewish community school and all of that.
But it's a different world. On balance, it's better, but I think we are much more sensitive than we were seven years ago, to the problems of the poor among us. And that's a good thing.
And I think they're much more sensitive to the problems of discrimination and violence against people because of their race or their religion or their sexual orientation. And, you know, I hope that they will want someone, and I hope that they will, who will try as hard as I have tried and maybe be more successful, although I think they'll have to make some changes in Congress to do that, to create a genuine, constructive bipartisan atmosphere. We get it here, but we get it about once a year, and it doesn't last long enough to suit me. When we get it, great things happen.
Mary, did you have a question?
Q. Yes, sir. I was wondering if you have any plans to protect the ABM treaty, which will almost certainly be the next target of the Senate Republicans looking to start Star Wars.
A. Well, as you have, all of you have reported this, we continue to work on missile defense. We spend quite a good deal of money on it. Some preliminary tests are encouraging.
If we have the potential to protect our people against missiles that could be loaded with nuclear weapons or chemical or biological weapons coming at us from other countries -- and this does not include the Russians, with whom we have this ABM treaty, but all these other countries that are trying to get missile technology -- it would be the responsible thing to try to deploy such a system. The problem is, any such system, even a ground-based one, would violate the literal terms of the ABM treaty.
Now, there are -- as you say, Mary, there are people in the United States Congress who would like to just tear up the ABM treaty and go on.
I personally think that would be a terrible mistake.
But we are, for all of our ups and downs and rough edges, we are working with the Russians, and we have made real progress in reducing threats as a result of it. And let me just tick off a few things:
They've continued to reduce their nuclear arsenal.
If they ratify Start II, we'll take our nuclear arsenals to 80 percent below their cold-war high.
We're prepared to go into a Start III negotiations with them if we do.
They have also taken their troops out of the Baltics, and they have gotten nuclear weapons out of all those other former Soviet republics.
We're getting something out of this, this partnership. And we, I think, would be very foolish to just discard the ABM treaty. So what we're trying to do is to see whether or not we can work with the Russians in a way that enhances their security and ours to share some of the benefits of these developments and to go forward in a way that convinces them that they're not the problem.
We're also trying to do other things to minimize the problem. As you know, we've been working very hard with North Korea to try to end the missile program there.
So I do not want to throw the ABM treaty away. I do think it is the responsible thing to do to continue to pursue what appears to be far more promising than many had thought, including me a few years ago, in terms of missile defense. But we have to try to work the two things out together. And I'm confident that if the Russians believe it is in their security interest to do so that we can. And that will happen if we work with them. If we just scrap the ABM treaty, it won't happen, and our insecurity will increase.
Bill. Go ahead. I'll take both of you, just -- yeah, go ahead.
Q. Mr. President, you've never commented on Judge Wright's decision that you intentionally lied in the Jones deposition. Do you accept her finding? And if not, why have you or your attorneys not challenged it?
A. When I am out of office, I will have a lot to say about this. Until then, I am going to honor my commitment to all of you to go back to work. I haven't challenged anything, including things that I consider to be questionable, because I think it is wrong.
The American people have been put through enough, and they need every hour, every day, every minute I can give them thinking about their business.
And so until I leave here -- as I understand it now, all this is finished and I don't have to comment on it, and unless I there is some reason I legally have to, I'm not going to say anything else that doesn't relate to my responsibilities as President as regards that. When I'm done ----
Q. Do you ----
A. When I'm done, then I can say what I want to say. Go ahead.
Q. Mr. President, one of the arguments that some of your closest friends in the Senate make about the situation with the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty is that the Republicans aren't just after that treaty or the ABM treaty, that really what they want to do is embark on the full dismantling of all strategic arms controls we've know since the end of the cold war. The Republican argument is that arms control is an illusion and a delusion; that it lulls us into a false sense of security and that it drains our will to maintain our military might.
What do you think of those arguments? What's your response to them?
A. Imagine the world we will live in if they prevail. I mean, imagine the world we will live in if they prevail. That's what I think of them. I mean, look. Are we more secure because we made an agreement with the Russians to reduce our nuclear arsenals? I believe we are. Are we more secure, given the economic and political tensions in that area, that we made an agreement with the Russians to take those nuclear weapons out of Kazakhstan and Ukraine and Belarus? I believe we are. Are we more secure because other countries are not testing nuclear weapons and can only do so much in the laboratory? I believe we are.
I think these arms control agreements have created a climate in the world which has helped to make us far more secure and helped to reduce the likelihood that nuclear weapons will ever be used again.
If the United States, with all of our wealth, all of our strength, more nuclear weapons than anybody else, says we are so insecure that we want more, more, more, what in the wide world could we ever say to the Chinese; to the Russians, who I hope will not be on their backs economically forever; to the Indians and the Pakistanis, who have all kinds of arguments, one against the other and involving other countries; to countries that believe we are too aggressive in the world already, and don't share a lot of our political or philosophical views?
You know, I am glad you said that. You are right; they don't believe that, and they think we ought to go it alone. It doesn't bother them that we don't pay our United Nations dues. It doesn't bother them that we are giving the Pentagon money in their budget that the Pentagon didn't ask for and say is not necessary for our national security, but they won't fund a decent investment in diplomacy, in helping to lift the world's poor in places where people are trying to make democracy take root; that we are not funding our obligations under the Middle East peace process or our obligations to help the Russians continue to dismantle their nuclear weapons. That's right. And they do believe that.
And I go back to what Mark said. They are -- I don't believe they are yet the majority in the Republican caucus -- but they are a very, very potent minority. And they do believe this.
But I think they are wrong. And the American people must understand that this is one of the choices they now have to make.
Q. Mr. President, you said, "Imagine a world without these agreements." Please give some examples of what you are driving at, because they say it's going to be a terrific world" ----
A. Well, first of all ----
Q. ---- Without these agreements, that America is going to be safer without the agreements than it is with them.
A. First of all, we are all tied in knots now over this budget, right?
I mean, it's totally unnecessary, but we are. But we shouldn't be.
Now can you imagine if we had no arms control agreements? Suppose we just tore them all up tomorrow, nothing, no nonproliferation agreement. Then this same crowd would be coming in and saying, "Well, now there's no nonproliferation agreement, you know, and here's a list of 12 countries that -- we think they have two scientists who can figure out how to put together a small nuclear weapon. And there's no Chemical Weapons Convention or Biological Weapons Convention, so they've got those labs chugging right along here. And therefore, we need you to increase the budget for all this, to the labs and the Pentagon, by another $30 (billion) or $40 (billion) or $50 billion a year. So I'm sorry, we'll just have to get out of the business of funding education. We can't afford to invest any more in health care. The American people will just have to figure out what do on their own."
It would totally erode the fabric of our domestic climate.
Meanwhile, what happens overseas? Countries that could be putting money into the education and health care and development of their children, whether they're democracies or military dictatorships or communist countries, will be sitting there saying: "Well, you know, we'd like to lower the infant mortality rate. We'd like to lower the hunger rate. We'd like to lower the poverty rate. We'd like to raise the literacy rate. But look at what the Americans are doing. Look at what our neighbors are doing. Let's spend half our money on military."
It would be great for the people that build this stuff, but for everybody else, it would be a nightmare.
Consider the Japanese, coming out, we earnestly hope, of their long economic slump, having honored since World War II their commitment to be a nonnuclear state and to spend a small percentage of their income on defense. What in the world would they do in such a world?
And if they had to divert four, five, six percent of their gross national product to defense, what kind of economic partner would they be?
What would happen in Latin America, the area which has been the area that was of greatest growth for us in trade, after we have worked so hard -- you got Brazil to renounce its nuclear program. You've got former adversaries working together in trade agreements. What would happen if they all the sudden got antsy and decided, "Well, you know, we have no national status. Our people -- you know, we'll have the same elements in our country saying we can't defend ourselves. We've got to have a biological program, a chemical program, a nuclear program."
I mean -- you know, all this sounds good, but the idea that the best way for us to go forward, since right now at this particular moment in history we enjoy the greatest wealth and the greatest power, is to build this big old wall and tell all of our friends and neighbors to go take a hike, we're not cooperating with them anymore; as far as we're concerned, any might be an enemy, and anything you want to do with your money is fine with us because we have more money than you do, so whatever you do, we'll do more -- I think it will be a bleak, poor, less-secure world.
I don't want my children and my grandchildren or your children or your grandchildren to live in it. They believe that I will do everything I can to stop it.
Yes?
Q. Sir, isn't it wishful thinking for the Democrats to think they can beat up on the Republicans next year over this treaty vote? Yes, public opinions show that most Americans do support the treaty.
But you were not able -- despite your 30-plus public appearances, you were not able to light a fire under public opinion. Can't the Republicans just walk away from this without any damage? Particularly in the post-cold war era, isn't it true that Americans just don't worry about the nuclear threat?
A. I think there's something to that. But, you know, it was interesting. As I understand it, one of the reasons this came, from what my Republican friends in the Senate say, is that the Republicans were worried that the Democrats would keep beating on this next year if they didn't bring it up and dispose of it this year, and they were afraid it would be a political issue. I never wanted it to be a political issue. I never wanted the Chemical Weapons Treaty to be a political issue. I never thought this stuff would be a political issue. I always thought we'd have a bipartisan consensus to do what had to be done. So they may have made it a political issue now. And it may or may not have any impact. But I will say this, I will say again, I believe the American people eventually -- I think they'll stay where they are, and I think we'll eventually get this treaty ratified. But it may be ----
In every democracy, you know, the people decide what they care about.
I never ---- I told Senator Lott that I did not expect that this would ever be such a big issue. I think it might be now. And the people have to decide. But this is part of the choices a free people make, and it's an important choice, and we'll just see what they do.
Yes, go ahead.
Q. Labor unions have stepped up their criticisms of the World Trade Organization and plan to demonstrate at the talks next month. You've sought to answer some of their concerns, but it's not likely that you're going to answer all of them before then. Is that going to weaken the United States negotiating position in the talks?
A. No, because there'll be a lot of people from other countries demonstrating against it too. You're going to have a ---- there'll be a lot of people there against it. And I think -- -- I want to say two things: First of all, I am committed to launching a new trade round which will expand opportunities for us and for others on a fair basis.
For example, if we stop export subsidies to agriculture, 85 percent of which are in Europe today, it would benefit farmers in my home state of Arkansas, but it would also benefit farmers in Argentina and farmers in Africa. And I would like to see that done.
I would like to see us make a commitment that electronic commerce would continue to be tax-free, at least, and I would like to see us continue to make progress in other areas, because three out of 10, 30 percent of our growth, came from trade-related growth until the Asian financial crisis, and because I think it's the best way to lift labor standards and to give countries the money they need to protect their environment.
So I will continue to push for this.
Now, having said that, I don't think it's such a bad thing that all these people are coming to Seattle to demonstrate. Why? Because I went to Geneva to speak to the W.T.O., and then I went back to Geneva to speak to the international labor organizations to say that the ---- particularly those of us in the wealthier countries have a heavy responsibility to try to put a more human face on the global economy. And that means you have to bring labor interests and environmental interests into these deliberations. That not only do these factors have to be considered, but the people themselves have to be heard. I think it is very important. So we have proposed, for example, a trade and labor group coming out of the W.T.O. We want to see more work done in the environmental area.
But the point I'd like to make is, if you'll just let me get off on this one little area in which I have an obsession, I think that while I'm all for big ideas -- you asked me about what the next campaign should be about -- I'm all for big ideas, the world is still largely in the grip of a big idea that isn't true anymore. And that big idea is that in order for any country that's not rich to get rich, they have to burn more fossil fuels and put more greenhouse gases in the atmosphere because that's the way we got rich and that's the way the British got rich and that's the way other countries got rich. And that's not true anymore.
The whole economics of energy and the economy have changed.
And we could have a revolution in the environment with more trade and investment in presently available environmental technologies, in alternative energy sources. That's just one example. But it won't necessarily happen automatically.
And just as -- look at the domestic market in America. We have about the freest markets you can imagine here. It's easier for -- if any of you folks could leave what you are doing, if you weren't so devoted to it, and go make more money probably doing something else, you could get venture capital; you could come up with some idea. You have fooled around with your computer so much you could probably start some Internet company and it would be worth a couple of hundred million dollars in no time. And that happens all the time, you know.
Those of you who are over 25 may be too old to do it now -- that's where all the money -- but you know why -- we have an open economy.
But what makes it work? We have got a Federal Reserve that works; we have got a Securities and Exchange Commission that works. We have got protections for consumers; we have got protections against monopolies. We have intermediate institutions.
The trading system and the financial system, the global financial markets and the global trading system, are creating the global economy. We need some intermediate involvement from labor and environment, just to name two, to make sure that we build an economy that benefits everybody and that literally has a more human face on it.
And so I am actually not all that upset those folks are coming to Seattle. I welcome them. But if their fundamental view is, "If we had less trade instead of more, that every economy could be self-sustaining and the environment would be better and people would make more money," I think that that is simply not true. And I think you can demonstrate that's not true. So I want an expansive trade round that helps America and helps them, too.
Let me just make one point. I have done everything I could to get the wealthy countries to do more for the poor countries. We're trying to pass an Africa Trade Initiative here and a Caribbean Basin Initiative, and it does have bipartisan support. Let me say that, and I'm grateful for the Republicans that are helping us with it. And I think we got a chance to pass it this year. We're trying to get debt relief for the poorest countries in the world.
So I'm sympathetic with all these negative feelings. But one of the things that spawns these kind of negative feelings is these folks feel like they've been shut out. They think the W.T.O. is some rich guys club where people get in and talk in funny languages and use words nobody understands, make a bunch of rules that help the people that already have and stick it to the people that have not. That's what they think.
And so, if we're going to change their perception, we've got to listen to their protests and bring them into the tent and go forward taking these concerns into account.
Yes.
Q. Mr. President, you have alluded several times to anticrime initiatives, and a big part of your anticrime initiatives are gun buy-back programs. Recent studies that are coming out, that have come out, that are out now or coming out, show that a lot of people that hand these guns in are old shotguns that don't work, they're from the attic, they're from the basement, whatever, they're really not the kinds of guns that were used in Los Angeles and some of the high profile crimes that the nation has been so fixed on in recent months.
Basically I'm wondering are you concerned that in putting so much focus on these buy-back programs that other initiatives like they tried in Richmond that have proven successful, and in Philadelphia, might languish as a result?
A. Well, first let me say that I do believe that the gun buy-back programs get all kinds of guns. And obviously, if you wanted the money and you didn't care about the gun, those are the easiest to give up. If you've got some old gun that doesn't work and you want 25 bucks or whatever you get for it, it's a good way to get it.
But keep in mind there are over -- I don't know what the exact number is, but there's almost one gun for every person in America. There are well over 200 million guns in America. So I think that the gun -- and all the new gun purchases, handgun purchases, at least -- require background checks. So I still think the more you can get done with that, the better. I still think the more, the better.
I think it would be -- I agree with the import of your question, however; it would be great mistake to emphasize that to the exclusion of law enforcement strategies that plainly work, like the one in Richmond, like the one in Boston that led to no child being killed by gun violence in nearly two years. It would be a great mistake to think that's a substitute for closing the loopholes in both our assault weapons bill and the Brady bill, especially the gunshow loophole. It would be a great mistake to think that that could substitute for our efforts to put 50,000 more police officers on the street in the areas that still have crime rates that are still too high.
So I think we should stick with the gun buy-back program. I think we're spending about $15 million on it, not an enormous amount of money. But it should be only one part of a very comprehensive strategy.
Q. Mr. President, about steel imports from Japan; why are you delaying your decision under Section 201 charges against Japanese Steel wire?
The I.T.C. was divided, your advisers are divided, according to Mr. Sperling yesterday. Does that mean that you don't see any compelling reasons for taking action to protect domestic producers?
And also -- next, about C.T.B.T., does Japan have any special role to play in preventing the spread of nuclear weapons?
A. Let me answer the first question first. You answered the first question for me. I have delayed a decision because the I.T.C. was divided and my advisers are divided.
So I have to make the decision. And it's a complicated issue and I'm trying to work it through and see -- and I only got the background material on it, oh, in the last few days. And as you know, we've been otherwise preoccupied with the test ban treaty. So I only looked at it -- I don't know, yesterday, the day before, even at first blush.
So it is a decision that I will have to make and for which everyone can hold me responsible because our people have not yet been able -- they don't -- they can't resolve all the details themselves. I will do what I think is right. You should not infer from the fact that a decision has been made that I will grant no relief, because I have not decided whether to grant relief or not, and I will decide in the most timely fashion I can.
Now, on the second question you asked, which I think is the far more important question, I think in a way Japan may be in a unique position to play a role of global importance now.
Why? Because Japan is by far the wealthiest, strongest country in the world without a nuclear program. And if the Japanese say -- go to the Chinese and say, "Don't start testing," go to the Indians and say, "Don't start testing," go to the Pakistanis and say, "Don't start testing again," say, "We want to stay where we are. We want to live in a 21st century world where our competition is commercial and not military, where we're worried about ideas, not atoms," I think it will have a very important effect in this period when people are going to try to sort out how they feel about what I said at this press conference today as against the vote last night.
So I personally believe Japan can play a remarkably positive role, and I have great confidence in Prime Minister Obuchi, who's done a terrific job, and I hope that Japan will play that role.
Thank you very much. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TREATIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



353 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: PAKISTAN MILITARY COMPLETES SEIZURE OF ALL AUTHORITY

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER with RAJA ZULFIKAR 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Friday, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The new military ruler of Pakistan imposed martial law shortly after midnight today, suspending the Constitution, dismissing the Parliament and dashing hopes of a quick return to civilian rule in the world's newest nuclear power.
Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the army chief who led a brutally efficient but bloodless coup on Tuesday night, also proclaimed himself chief executive of Pakistan. 
 His soldiers sealed off the Parliament and its legislative offices here in the capital, and they continued to hold Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and some of his closest aides under house arrest.
As dawn broke today, the Parliament, the Supreme Court and the Prime Minister's headquarters were deserted, without a soldier in sight.
The declaration came in the form of a broadcast in the middle of the night on Pakistan's Government-run television station, seized by General Musharraf's forces Tuesday night. It displayed, in a close-up, a copy of what looked like a hastily drafted document declaring martial law in everything but name. Instead, the document referred carefully to a "state of emergency."
"The whole of Pakistan will come under the control of the armed forces of Pakistan," the statement said.
The Constitution of Pakistan does not permit the army to remove a prime minister or Parliament unless the military formally suspends the Constitution under martial law.
The declaration was drafted Thursday as General Musharraf and his lieutenants met at the army's general headquarters in Rawalpindi with the figurehead President of Pakistan, Rafiq Taraz, and several of the nation's leading constitutional scholars.
The coup against the increasingly unpopular Prime Minister, Mr. Sharif, was a cause for celebration in the streets and the salons of Pakistan. But the news of the declaration of a state of emergency may be more sobering.
There had been hope here that General Musharraf, whose swift coup was evidently well prepared and executed, also had a plan to hand control back to civilian rulers in a matter of days or weeks. But for now the governance of 135 million people, the question of martial law, the leadership of a 500,000-man army and the control of a simmering political and military confrontation with India, Pakistan's nuclear-armed neighbor, is in the hands of a man who, in his own words, is "not a political or constitutional expert."
The army was the last remaining institution in Pakistan with real power. Prime Minister Sharif, though he was elected by a landslide in 1997, squandered much of his own power and authority while trying to strip the courts, the presidency and rival political parties of theirs. The result, General Musharraf said in his address to the nation earlier this week, also broadcast in the dead of night, was that "all the institutions" of civil society had "been played around with and systematically destroyed."
Pakistan has endured military rule for 25 of its 52 years as a nation, and some of those years were marked by violent repression. But the army seized power, in part, because political leaders in Pakistan repeatedly have proved themselves unable to lead.
In 1993, Mr. Sharif was dismissed by the president -- legally, under the Constitution -- for corruption and incompetence. His predecessor, Benazir Bhutto, was twice dismissed, in 1990 and 1996, on essentially identical charges.
Ms. Bhutto, who is living in London, said on Thursday in an interview with The Financial Times that she was trying to contact the military leaders in the hope of smoothing the way for a return to Pakistan.
Though the United States had cautioned against a coup, it has worked closely with military rulers in Pakistan before. The last military dictator of Pakistan, General Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, received more than $3 billion in military aid from the United States and served as a close confidant of the Central Intelligence Agency and a cold-war ally of Washington's in the 1980's.
He died in a still-unexplained air crash in 1988, ending an 11-year reign that began when he arrested and hanged his predecessor, Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Ms. Bhutto's father.
International calls for a return to democracy had mounted in the days since the coup. In his news conference on Thursday, President Clinton addressed the coup's leaders, saying: " 'You should not do it. It's not necessary, it will hurt your economy and endanger your future. That is our message to Pakistan, and we hope they will move to a civilian government as soon as possible."
After the state of emergency was declared, the United States said its Ambassador to Pakistan, William Milam, would meet with General Musharraf to learn the significance of the declaration and to urge a return to civilian rule.
The military's latest takeover may have serious repercussions for Pakistan's economy. The International Monetary Fund may cut off loans unless democracy is restored. The reserves of foreign exchange that Pakistan needs to import food are already quite low.
General Musharraf moved quickly to purge the Government of potential enemies. He dismissed and arrested the military intelligence chief, Lieut. Gen. Khwaja Ziauddin, who went to Washington last month to warn the C.I.A. about the growing likelihood of a military coup. He also fired the chief of the national airline, Shaheed Kahkan Abbassi, whom the army accused of conspiring with Prime Minister Sharif to capture or kill General Musharraf as he returned to Pakistan on Tuesday evening on a commercial flight from Sri Lanka, where Mr. Sharif had sent him on an official visit.
In what appears to have been a coordinated move, the Pakistan International Airlines jet carrying General Musharraf was denied permission to land at the nation's largest airport, in Karachi, at the very moment Prime Minister Sharif dismissed the general. As the plane ran short of fuel, the army, in a swift response, seized the control tower and within hours had taken control of the nation.
General Musharraf had been Mr. Sharif's handpicked choice for army chief a year ago. But the two men have been at loggerheads over Mr. Sharif's decision to withdraw the Pakistan-backed forces that occupied a section of Indian-held Kashmir over the summer.
The military felt that Mr. Sharif had bowed to pressure from President Clinton by agreeing to the pullout, and then tried to blame the military for the failed military adventure. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSTITUTION OF PAKISTAN (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSTITUTION OF PAKISTAN (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MARTIAL LAW; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); COUPS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (87%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); RIOTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); MILAM, WILLIAM (AMB); WEINER, TIM; SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%); NAWAZ SHARIF (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999



354 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: The Mentor Conservatives Turn to for Inspiration;
A Gadfly and Confessor To a Harvard Lineage

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
It is the first day of the semester, and Harvey C. Mansfield has once again drawn a standing-room-only crowd of Harvard students to his course on the history of ancient and medieval political philosophy.
Courtly and serious in a dark gray suit, Mr. Mansfield paced in front of the blackboard, gazing sternly into the faces of the more than five dozen students who showed up, most of them white and male. 
 "This course is trans-millennial," he began, gently ridiculing the faddishness of millennium-related discussions. "We're interested in the permanent significance. We're interested in what belongs to every millennium."
The statements are as much of an introduction to his course as they are to his world. At 67, Mr. Mansfield is probably best known around the Harvard campus as a popular government teacher and a famously conservative nag. He strongly opposes affirmative action. He has warned against the dangers of not respecting manliness and declared that homosexuality would undermine civilization if it was made respectable. Indeed, the current issue of Harvard Magazine dubs him "Prince of the Conservatives"; on the cover, Mr. Mansfield adopts a Tom Wolfe-like pose, wearing a panama hat, a cream-colored blazer and a slight smirk.
Yet Mr. Mansfield is more than a university gadfly. A kind of Father Confessor to students of politics for nearly four decades, Mr. Mansfield has quietly shaped the thinking of a generation of conservative writers, academics and public figures.
"Intellectuals often have their greatest political influence indirectly," said E. J. Dionne, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a Washington Post columnist who has written several books on government. "Somebody like Harvey Mansfield might not be quoted by George W. Bush, but a lot of the advisers sitting in the room with Bush would be influenced by Harvey Mansfield."
They include people like William Kristol, editor of the conservative Weekly Standard and a former adviser to Vice President Dan Quayle; Alan Keyes, a Republican Presidential contender and former Reagan Administration diplomat; Gary Rosen, associate editor at the conservative monthly Commentary; James Ceaser, a government professor at the University of Virginia, and Nathan Tarcov, a political science professor at the University of Chicago.
"I consider myself very lucky to have run into him when I was 18 years old," said Mr. Kristol, who was a student of Mr. Mansfield's in the early 1970's. "He really helped me understand how the questions of political philosophy relate to practical political issues today."
Even Sean Wilentz, a liberal Princeton University historian who drew harsh criticism from Mr. Mansfield for his defense of President Clinton during impeachment proceedings, admitted, "Some of us would give essential body parts for that kind of influence."
On a recent day, Mr. Mansfield sat serenely in his book-lined office, surrounded by portraits of Dead White Males like John Locke, Thomas More and the subject of decades of his scrutiny, Machiavelli. Mr. Mansfield has produced translations of three works by the Renaissance figure, including "The Prince," in addition to three books on the man himself.
"I think he is even more evil than he appears to be and he had a plan to change our way of thinking, to make us realistic, more willing to do dirty and nasty things for the sake of some good," he said of Machiavelli. "It's with reason that he is considered the first modern thinker, even the founder of modern thinking."
Mr. Mansfield, who is trimly built and looks 20 years younger than his age, is soft-spoken, even a bit shy in person. Machiavelli is his speciality, but it is his exposition of the ideas of the American philosopher Leo Strauss that has resonated in current policy debates. Mr. Strauss, an unabashed elitist, was harshly critical of modern political thinkers, arguing that they were unable to make value judgments. He fervently celebrated the ancient Greek philosophers, believing they should be treated not as historical figures but as sources of wisdom today.
"He runs one of the intellectual factories that has kept Leo Strauss's work alive," said Mr. Dionne.
Mr. Mansfield says his provocative style is part of his appeal. "People come to me because there are very few academic conservatives and also because I answer," he said, confessing to enjoying the center stage. "If you're going to go out on the limb, you might as well say, 'Everybody look at me.' "
Gary Rosen, who once served as Mr. Mansfield's teaching assistant, says that he is purposely "naughty": "He wants to kind of shake the humorless orthodoxy of the other side and encourage discussion." Mr. Keyes, a staunchly conservative radio talk show host, agrees: "He does not compromise so that it will sound better to your ear. He will present it in such a way so that your mind is forced to deal with it."
But for some, that is precisely the problem. His critics insist that Mr. Mansfield's inflammatory remarks and reliance on stereotypes often do more to polarize debate on campus than to encourage it.
"Part of Harvey Mansfield's problem is that he likes hyperbole; he likes to state extremes," said Everett Mendelsohn, who is chairman of the university's history of science department and protested the war in Vietnam as a Harvard graduate student. "He takes issues which might well need discussion and by overstating the problem makes them undiscussable."
Mr. Mansfield, for instance, speculated that an increase in the number of black students at Harvard had led to grade inflation, even though he admitted he had no hard data to prove it. In his office, he characterized affirmative action as "a bad idea wrapped up in one great mistake, self-esteem."
He attacked the feminist movement, saying it was based on the flawed notion that there are no essential differences between the sexes. "Men today are out of control because manliness is not being respected," he declared. The only Harvard faculty member to vote against a women's studies major in 1986, Mr. Mansfield is now working on a book titled "Manliness."
He has been quoted as saying that gay sex is "shameful" and that homosexuality "rightly causes most regular people to feel repulsed." Mr. Mansfield said he became more outspoken after he stepped down as chairman of Harvard's government department in 1977. He describes the late 1960's as a catastrophe for Harvard and the nation.
Everything became "directed toward the goal of social justice rather than truth and learning," he said. "Harvard is very trendy these days. It does not want to be isolated, aloof in an ivory tower. That's a big mistake we're making. We should be much further from political and social questions. The purpose of the university is not to produce solutions for these questions but to think and raise questions and to challenge."
Mr. Mansfield said he found it paradoxical that the counterculture of the late 1960's had become the establishment culture of Harvard, "even though many of them are very liberal or very far to the left and oppose the idea of establishment."
Mr. Mansfield was reared in a New Deal liberal household. His mother was a homemaker, his father a political science professor at Ohio State University who ended up at Columbia University.
He has spent most of his own adult life at Harvard, however. He graduated summa cum laude in 1953 and received his doctorate in 1961. "I love it, but I'm angry at it," he snaps. He said he became disaffected with liberals when he attended Harvard because he was strongly anti-Communist.
Mr. Mansfield who has two grown sons, met his current wife, Delba Winthrop, at Harvard when she was a graduate student in his political philosophy class. She teaches political theory in Harvard's adult education program. Together they run the Harvard-based Program on Constitutional Government, which sponsors public forums. (His former wife, his 28-year-old daughter and his son-in-law were killed in a car accident a decade ago.)
Amid the ivy and Georgian red brick at Harvard these days, there is little of the political ferment of the late 60's. A couple of years ago, in a referendum over a boycott of grapes in support of migrant farm workers, Harvard students voted to reintroduce the grapes to university dining halls. The campuswide turnout was larger than in most student elections.
Walking across Harvard Yard recently, Mr. Mansfield acknowledged that there were more conservative students on campus. But he complained that students now chose courses on the basis of the professor's politics.
"A lot of the students that I get are conservative students and the ones that I don't aren't," he said, adding that he misses the days when students were quick to challenge him. "When I was younger, they listened to me more. Now they respect me more."
Mr. Mansfield said he taught students not so much what to think as how to think: "That means going back to the origin of our thoughts in the early liberals, people like Hobbes and Locke, but it also means going back to the classical thinkers that they opposed like Plato and Aristotle. So I guess that says, 'Don't be smug and don't think that the dominant thoughts today are the only thoughts.'
John Couriel, a 21-year-old senior who was assistant policy director to Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida during his political campaign, was among the many conservative students who packed Mr. Mansfield's lecture hall the other day.
"There is a lot of temerity at Harvard about thinking seriously about hard questions, but Professor Mansfield is not affected by that," said Mr. Couriel, a social studies major. "It makes him controversial but also makes him the great scholar he is."
Another student, Jacqueline Newmyer, a 20-year-old history and literature major who describes herself as a moderate Republican, said she was drawn to his traditional approach. "He's kind of a breath of fresh air," she said. "A lot of professors here are kind of immersed in this politically correct, more stylish kind of teaching."
But Melvin Priester, a social studies major who received an A-minus in a contemporary government course with Mr. Mansfield last fall, is less adulatory: "Mansfield genuinely does believe he is fighting to save Harvard and the sanctity of American academics. The question is what really is he saving? I'd argue that he's saving a tradition of patriarchy and white male dominance."
Still, Mr. Mansfield's outspokenness has gained him admirers from the other end of the spectrum. Michael Sandel, a government professor who has offered the liberal counterpoint in courses that he has jointly taught with Mr. Mansfield, describes him as "a one-man antidote to liberal complacency" at Harvard.
"He saves the Harvard faculty from sliding into smugness and self-satisfaction," Mr. Sandel said. "He forces those of us who disagree to defend our views and to never stop thinking."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvey Mansfield on the Harvard campus. A popular professor of government, he urges students to absorb the works of the ancients and rise above intellectual fashion. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CONSERVATISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MILLENNIUM (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); IMPEACHMENT (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA; MANSFIELD, HARVEY C (PROF) BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



355 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Greenspan Talk on Financial Risk

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech Thursday night by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, at a Washington conference on risk management sponsored by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency:
The decline in recent years in the equity premium -- the margin by which the implied rate of discount on common stock exceeds the riskless rate of interest -- should prompt careful consideration of the robustness of our portfolio risk-management models in the event this judgment proves wrong. 
 The key question is whether the recent decline in equity premiums is permanent or temporary. If the decline is permanent, portfolio risk managers need not spend much time revisiting a history that is unlikely to repeat itself. But if it proves temporary, portfolio risk managers could find that they are underestimating the credit risk of individual loans based on the market value of assets and overestimating the benefits of portfolio diversification.
There can be little doubt that the dramatic improvements in information technology in recent years have altered our approach to risk. Some analysts perceive that information technology has permanently lowered equity premiums and, hence, permanently raised the prices of the collateral that underlies all financial assets.
The reason, of course, is that information is critical to the evaluation of risk. The less that is known about the current state of a market or a venture, the less the ability to project future outcomes and, hence, the more those potential outcomes will be discounted.
The rise in the availability of real-time information has reduced the uncertainties and thereby lowered the variances that we employ to guide portfolio decisions. At least part of the observed fall in equity premiums in our economy and others over the past five years does not appear to be the result of ephemeral changes in perceptions. It is presumably the result of a permanent technology-driven increase in information availability, which by definition reduces uncertainty and therefore risk premiums. This decline is most evident in equity risk premiums. It is less clear in the corporate bond market, where relative supplies of corporate and Treasury bonds and other factors we cannot easily identify have outweighed the effects of more readily available information about borrowers. . . .
That equity premiums have generally declined during the past decade is not in dispute. What is at issue is how much of the decline reflects new, irreversible technologies, and what part is a consequence of a prolonged business expansion without a significant period of adjustment. The business expansion is, of course, reversible, whereas the technological advancements presumably are not.
Some analysts have offered an entirely different interpretation of the drop in equity premiums. They assert that a long history of a rate of return on equity persistently exceeding the riskless rate of interest is bound to induce a learning-curve response that will eventually close the gap. According to this argument, much, possibly all, of the decline in equity premiums over the past five years reflects this learning response. It would be a mistake to dismiss such notions out of hand. We have learned to no longer cower at an eclipse of the sun or to run for cover at the sight of a newfangled automobile. . . .
As I have indicated on previous occasions, history tells us that sharp reversals in confidence occur abruptly, most often with little advance notice. These reversals can be self-reinforcing processes that can compress sizable adjustments into a very short period. Panic reactions in the market are characterized by dramatic shifts in behavior that are intended to minimize short-term losses. Claims on far-distant future values are discounted to insignificance. What is so intriguing, as I noted earlier, is that this type of behavior has characterized human interaction with little appreciable change over the generations. Whether Dutch tulip bulbs or Russian equities, the market price patterns remain much the same. . . .
The uncertainties inherent in valuations of assets and the potential for abrupt changes in perceptions of those uncertainties clearly must be adjudged by risk managers at banks and other financial intermediaries. At a minimum, risk managers need to stress test the assumptions underlying their models and set aside somewhat higher contingency resources -- reserves or capital -- to cover the losses that will inevitably emerge from time to time when investors suffer a loss of confidence. . . .
More important, boards of directors, senior managers and supervisory authorities need to balance emphasis on risk models that essentially have only dimly perceived sampling characteristics with emphasis on the skills, experience and judgment of the people who have to apply those models. Being able to judge which structural model best describes the forces driving asset pricing in any particular period is itself priceless. To paraphrase my former colleague Jerry Corrigan, the advent of sophisticated risk models has not made people with gray hair, or none, wholly obsolete. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS RISK MANAGEMENT (93%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMON STOCK (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



356 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar's Earnings Decline Sharply

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., Oct. 15

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., the heavy equipment manufacturer, reported today that a continued slump in heavy machinery sales lowered its third-quarter earnings by 35 percent.
The company said it had earned $219 million, or 61 cents a share, compared with $336 million, or 92 cents a share, in the corresponding quarter last year. 
 The results were a penny over the expectations of Wall Street analysts, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Caterpillar's stock was up 43.75 cents, to $56.0625 a share, in New York Stock Exchange trading.
Third-quarter revenues were $4.72 billion, down 8.9 percent from $5.17 billion a year earlier.
Caterpillar reported a drop in heavy machinery sales in North America and Asia during the quarter. As a result, the company lowered its overall estimated sales and revenue for 1999. Caterpillar's chairman and chief executive, Glen Barton, said in a statement that the company now expects a decline of about 5 percent.
But Mr. Barton said he expected higher sales in 2000. Analysts have predicted that global economic recovery will result in higher earnings for Caterpillar next year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (98%); CATR (PAR) (98%); CAT (SWX) (98%); CAT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC CATERPILLAR INC (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: GLEN BARTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



357 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Show Gain of 1.1 Percent,Biggest in Nine Years

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15

 BODY:
Prices at the producer level shot up 1.1 percent in September, the biggest monthly increase in nine years, the Government reported today.
The report stoked fears among investors that inflation might be accelerating and helped to set off a wave of selling on Wall Street, which was already jittery over comments on Thursday night by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, about the difficulty of determining whether stock prices are too high. 
 Analysts said the increase in the Producer Price Index, while nearly three times what had been anticipated, overstated any inflation threat. The rise in the index, they said, was largely driven by increases in a few categories, including oil, tobacco and automobiles.
But the jump in the price index was substantial enough that it increased the odds of the Federal Reserve's raising interest rates at its next meeting on Nov. 16. Fed officials are leaning toward increasing rates for the third time this year, said Mark Vitner, an economist at First Union Securities, and today's figures "give them the cover they need to do so at their mid-November meeting."
The so-called core price index, which excludes food and energy, rose eight-tenths of a percent in September, after being roughly flat for most of the year.
Excluding food, energy, tobacco and cars, the index rose just one-tenth of a percent in September, suggesting that there is no broad-based increase in prices paid by producers for finished goods. And there did not appear to be much inflation pressure in the pipeline, with the core index on intermediate goods -- a stage of production between raw materials and finished goods -- rising three-tenths of a percent in September after jumping eight-tenths of a percent in August and six-tenths of a percent in July.
Oil prices have been rising for months as global demand has grown. Tobacco companies have been raising prices to pass along the costs of their settlement with the states over the health effects of smoking. Car prices often jump in September, reflecting the start of a new model year.
The jump in all three categories is likely to flatten out this month, analysts said, but will show up in the Consumer Price Index for September, scheduled to be released on Tuesday.
The Fed said in a separate report today that industrial production fell three-tenths of a percent in September, largely because of the disruption caused on the East Coast by Hurricane Floyd. Excluding the effects of the storm, the Fed said, production would have increased slightly.
Although the chances of another rate increase from the Fed are growing, the decision is by no means a foregone conclusion, analysts said. Among the factors that might persuade the central bank to hold off is the decline in stock prices and the rise over much of the year in the long-term interest rates set in the bond market.
"The bottom line is that to a large degree, the markets are doing the Fed's job," said Stephen D. Slifer, an economist at Lehman Brothers. "Eventually the cooling off in financial markets should result in a cooling off in economic activity. The Fed must be asking, why tighten when jawboning works so well?"
With Wall Street waiting anxiously for any further sign from him, Mr. Greenspan spoke publicly again today, but confined his remarks mostly to preparations for the Year 2000 computer problem. Investors, however, continued to chew over the remarks he made Thursday night, in which he discussed the complexities of measuring financial risk.
Mr. Greenspan has been trying for the last several years to assess how swings in the prices of stocks and other assets affect consumer confidence, the long-term health of the financial system and economic growth -- and how and when the Fed should respond to them.
He has generally concluded that the central bank should not try to second-guess investors about whether stocks are overvalued, especially at a time when technology is reshaping the economy. Rather, Mr. Greenspan has said, the Fed should be prepared to act quickly if financial markets run into trouble.
At the same time, Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials have been increasingly vocal in telling banks and other financial institutions not to assume that the good times will continue forever.
It was against that backdrop that Mr. Greenspan spoke to a conference on Thursday night sponsored by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in Washington.
Mr. Greenspan noted a decline in recent years in the "equity premium," or the additional return demanded by investors to buy stocks rather than relatively less risky securities like Government bonds. The decline in the equity premium, Mr. Greenspan told the bank regulators, "should prompt careful consideration" of assumptions about how well financial institutions could cope if asset prices should plunge.
"The key question is whether the recent decline in equity premiums is permanent or temporary," Mr. Greenspan said, touching on a debate over whether the economy has been fundamentally strengthened by technology or is simply in the midst of an unsustainable bubble.
"What is at issue is how much of the decline reflects new, irreversible technologies, and what part is a consequence of a prolonged business expansion without a significant period of adjustment," Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan has considerable experience with financial crises, having taken office just before the October 1987 stock market crash and having weathered the problems of last fall, when global markets all but seized up as financial problems in Asia spread to Russia and Latin America.
"As I have indicated on previous occasions, history tells us that sharp reversals in confidence occur abruptly, most often with little advance notice," Mr. Greenspan said. The bursting of a bubble, he said, is "incontrovertibly evident only in retrospect."
The lesson, he said, is that regulators should insist that financial institutions set aside enough money to weather "the losses that will inevitably emerge from time to time when investors suffer a loss of confidence."
"These reserves will appear almost all the time to be a suboptimal use of capital," Mr. Greenspan said. "So do fire insurance premiums."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, discussed Year 2000 issues yesterday, but his remarks Thursday about the difficulty of measuring financial risk contributed to weakness in stocks yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. C14)
 
Graphs: "Producer Prices" plots an index of finished goods, from April 1988 through Sept. 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labot Statistics)(pg. C14)
 
"Inventory-Sales Ratio" plots total amount of business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, from April 1988 through Sept. 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C14)
 
"Industrial Production" plots an index of total industrial production, from April 1988 through Sept. 1999. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES PRODUCER PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TOBACCO FARMING (78%); BONDS (77%); SMOKING (74%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (74%); NEW CAR MODELS (74%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); HURRICANES (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



358 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Asarco Accepts Grupo Mexico's $1.18 Billion Takeover Bid

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Asarco Inc. said yesterday that its board had voted to accept a sweetened $1.18 billion all-cash takeover bid from Grupo Mexico A.G. and that it planned to break its $1.17 billion cash-and-stock merger agreement with the Phelps Dodge Corporation.
Unless Phelps Dodge decides to increase its bid -- a move analysts said was unlikely -- its seven-week effort to acquire Asarco, the nation's third-largest copper producer, will come to an end. 
 "At this point, the story is virtually complete," said Clarence Morrison, an analyst at Prudential Securities. "I don't see Phelps Dodge increasing its offer, for the simple reason that they have come to the realization that it is no longer economic to purchase the company at this point for more than they are currently offering."
Asarco shareholders could, however, opt for the Phelps Dodge offer, particularly if the suitor's stock price rises in coming days.
Under the deal struck on Oct. 5, Phelps Dodge agreed to pay $14.75 in cash and 0.2513 Phelps Dodge share for each of Asarco's 39.8 million shares.
Grupo Mexico, a rail and mining conglomerate and Asarco's largest shareholder, made a $26-a-share, $1.03 billion cash bid for Asarco in September, topping an earlier hostile offer from Phelps Dodge. Grupo Mexico sweetened the offer on Oct. 7 to $29.50 a share, or $1.18 billion.
Phelps Dodge said on Oct. 8 that it would not raise its bid.
Susan Suber, a spokeswoman for Phelps Dodge, said yesterday that the company had no comment on the Asarco decision.
In a statement, Asarco said it intended to end its agreement with Phelps Dodge "at or after" 9 A.M. on Oct. 23.
Asarco will pay Phelps Dodge a $30 million breakup fee when it ends the deal, Jerry Cooper, an Asarco spokesman, said.
"The Phelps Dodge exchange offer is still open, but it looks likely Asarco shareholders will go with the cash bid," said Tom Burnett, founder of Merger Insight, which is based in New York. "However, if Phelps Dodge sees its stock price go up to $62 or higher, all things could change."
Phelps Dodge and Asarco shares withstood yesterday's stock market dive. Phelps Dodge closed at $57.875, up 62.5 cents a share, while Asarco rose 6.25 cents, to $29.375.
The purchase of Asarco would make Grupo Mexico one of the world's largest copper companies, with annual production of about 800,000 metric tons.
For now, Asarco's decision to accept the Grupo Mexico bid has apparently stifled Phelps Dodge's sweeping effort to become the world's largest copper company. As copper prices slumped earlier this year, Phelps Dodge began an offensive in August to acquire both Asarco and the Cyprus Amax Minerals Company, in an effort to cut costs through consolidation.
Until yesterday, it looked as if its efforts had succeeded: earlier this month, in addition to striking a deal with Asarco, it agreed to acquire Cyprus for $1.8 billion.
John Tumazos, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said that even if Phelps Dodge abandoned its effort to acquire Asarco now, it might choose to revive its interest later on, particularly if copper prices slide from their current levels of around 78 cents a pound.
"Phelps Dodge may have the idea to try and buy part of Asarco at a lower valuation than $29.75 a share if the outlook for copper turns out to be unfavorable 6, 12 or 18 months from now," he said. "Grupo's all-cash offer reinforces my thought that their expectation about copper prices is very aggressive." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (93%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (93%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (92%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (92%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (92%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (92%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (92%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (82%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ASARCO INC; PHELPS DODGE CORP; GRUPO MEXICO ASARCO INC (93%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (92%); CYPRUS AMAX MINERALS CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASARCO INC; PHELPS DODGE CORP; GRUPO MEXICO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAKEOVERS (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COPPER MARKETS (75%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



359 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Quebec Gains as a Language Lab

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 15

 BODY:
When Thomas Stasko, a University of Maryland graduate student, signed up for a French language immersion program in a foreign university, he decided to go to there by car.
"It was convenient getting up to Quebec," Mr. Stasko said of his semester at the Universite du Quebec at Chicoutimi. "They all spoke French and were very friendly people." 
 With the Canadian dollar trading a near historic low, American teachers of French are promoting language studies in Quebec universities and summer camps. By looking north to Canada, French language teachers are borrowing a tactic from Spanish language teachers who have long looked south to Mexico.
This discovery of Quebec is one of several new tactics intended to make French more appealing to an increasingly diverse American study body. Hoping especially to interest African-Americans, colleges offer courses in the literature of the French-speaking countries of West Africa and the Caribbean, as well as study trips to these regions. French teachers in Louisiana and the Mississippi River Valley teach language students about local French history. Study of Quebec and the Acadian diaspora appeals to many of the 17 million Americans who are descended from French Canadians.
At stake in this battle for relevancy is the future of language training in American universities. Over the last 30 years, the portion of American college students studying a foreign language has dropped by half, to 7.9 percent in 1998, according to a survey released on Thursday by the Modern Language Association in New York.
But the survey indicates a slowing in the sharp erosion of French, which ranks second to Spanish among foreign languages taught in the United States. During the first half of the 1990's, French language enrollments in American colleges dropped by one quarter. But since then, enrollments have dropped only 3.1 percent, to 199,064 college students last year.
Over all, foreign language enrollments were up 4.8 percent. But this was largely due to Americans' growing interest in Spanish. An additional 60,000 students took Spanish in 1998, for a total of 656,690. About 30 years ago, Spanish began to surpass French in popularity among students, and today it attracts more than three times as many students as French does. The survey showed minor gains for Italian, Chinese and Portuguese. Losses were recorded for German, Japanese and Russian.
The biggest news appeared to be the stabilization in French enrollments, which had dropped by almost half since 1970.
"There are lots of American schools we work with that 10 years ago had four French teachers and two Spanish teachers, and now it is the reverse," said Woodruff Halsey, executive director of School Year Abroad, a program that sends about 60 high school juniors a year to France and Spain.
In the last decade, the number of American college students studying overseas nearly doubled, reaching 113,954 last year. But France as a study destination has slipped to fourth place from second, attracting fewer than 10,000 Americans today. Now, fewer American college students study French in France than study Spanish in Mexico and Costa Rica combined.
Quebec was long overlooked as an American study option because of the province's distinctive accent and because of the heavy English influence. The twangy accent has not softened, and some students said they did not want it to replace the Parisian accents they had learned in college. Regarding the other factor, however, the nationalist government in Quebec has worked to purge English from signs and public places.
"The Quebec connection has become quite marked now," said Elaine Marks, a French professor at the University of Wisconsin. "There are students who are interested in going to Quebec over the summer, who are unable to go to do the summer in Europe because of the expense."
The Canadian dollar trades at 68 American cents, an exchange rate that makes Quebec a bargain, helping to attract almost 15 million American tourists to Canada last year. The linguistic bastion of French in North America, Canada has seven million native French speakers.
With the strengthening of French in Canada, the American Association of Teachers of French has started to alternate its annual meetings between France and Quebec.
"Quebec is affordable," said Jayne Abrate, the association's executive director, who teaches French at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale.
Ms. Abrate said elementary school teachers "who are intimidated about taking a group to France will start out by taking them to Quebec."
Every year, more than 100 American college students study French at the university at Chicoutimi, a French-speaking city about 225 miles northeast of Montreal. For programs under 12 weeks, Americans do not need student visas.
"The kids come back happy and speaking French," said Tom Carr, a lecturer at the University of Maryland. "It's so much more economic, and they can get there by car, which gives them a certain amount of mobility."
Summer language camps in Quebec are also attracting more Americans. And on the American side of the border, a high school French language camp now takes students on regular trips to Montreal and Quebec City from the Potsdam campus at the State University of New York.
Despite the old tourism slogan of Canada as "friendly, familiar, foreign and near," Americans can go through a bit of culture shock in Quebec.
"The cuisine is definitely different," said Alanna Prisby, a 22-year-old French major from Central Michigan University. She is spending the fall semester in Chicoutimi with a family that has some distinctive favorite dishes.
"For one meal we had cabbage rolls with potatoes, but with vanilla ice cream on top," Ms. Prisby said. "We've also had fried bologna with creamed corn on top." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (95%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); PORTUGAL (71%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (95%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); PORTUGAL (71%); QUEBEC, CANADA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRENCH LANGUAGE; CURRENCY FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HISTORY (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



360 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Speech on Retirement

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the speech by Bill Bradley in August 1995 when he announced his decision to retire from the Senate:
I have always preferred moving to standing still. As a small forward with the Knicks and then as a U.S. senator from New Jersey, I've had two of the best jobs in the world. Each kept me on the move, each offered unique perspective on America, and in each there came a time to go. 
 So today I announce that I am leaving the U.S. Senate at the end of my term and I will not run for re-election. . . .
During my time in the Senate, I have tried to balance the private interests and the public interests; the rights of property owners and the needs of society; the big players and the forgotten players. I haven't always pleased everyone, but I've tried to be consistent on the big issues such as the economy, race and America's role in the world.
I've also tried to take the long view, often passing up a headline to make sure that when I spoke I knew what I was talking about. Questions of structure, whether on taxes, trade or the environment, always interested me more than issues of marginal gain or questions of blame or strategies for partisan politician advantage.
We live in a time when, on a basic level, politics is broken. In growing numbers, people have lost faith in the political process and don't see how it can help their threatened economic circumstances. The political debate has settled into two familiar ruts. The Republicans are infatuated with the "magic" of the private sector and reflexively criticize government as the enemy of freedom, and the Democrats distrust the market, preach government as the answer to our problems and prefer the bureaucrat they know to the consumer they can't control. Neither party speaks to people where they live their lives. Both have moved away from my own concept of service and my own vision of what America can be.
I am saddened on occasion when the media, and politicians, themselves, convey that politics is mean, cheap and dirty; that what we hold in common as Americans is somehow less than what we harbor in our hearts and minds for ourselves as individuals. I have never believed that.
As I listen to our current political debate, I feel that among the things missing are the big ambitions that have always guided Americans who settled this continent, ended slavery, won two world wars and saw our liberal democratic ideals triumph around the globe.
I am leaving the U.S. Senate, but I am not leaving public life. The quest for a decent life and good wages for all Americans is shaped by many influences that work on many levels. The imperative to engage the world flows through many channels. The fight for justice occurs in many places.
I will expand my dialogue with the American people. I will continue to speak out and call it like I see it on race, on America's role in the world, on the economic plight of the middle class and the poor, and on the need for thorough-going reform that will remove special interests from elections and reduce their influence on government.
In the coming months, I will not lessen my efforts. To the contrary, I will increase them. As I leave the familiar surroundings of the U.S. Senate, I don't know where the future will lead. But, I recall the words of Robert Frost: "The woods are lovely, dark and deep, but I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep; and miles to go before I sleep."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley with his wife, Ernestine, and daughter, Teresa Anne, at a news conference in Newark on Aug. 16, 1995, after announcing that he would not seek another term in the Senate. (Bill Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL BILL BRADLEY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



361 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: Is That an Epidemic -- or a Terrorist Attack?;
Bioterrorism Is the Least of Our Worries

BYLINE: By Jonathan B. Tucker; Jonathan B. Tucker, a former biological weapons inspector in Iraq, edited the forthcoming book, "Toxic Terror: Assessing Terrorist Use of Chemical and Biological Weapons."

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif.

 BODY:
The news media are fascinated with bioterrorism. After a New Yorker article this week quoted unnamed Central Intelligence Agency analysts who speculated, apparently wrongly, that the outbreak of West Nile-like fever in New York could have been the work of Iraqi terrorists, a number of television news programs reported the story. And earlier this month, ABC's "Nightline" aired a weeklong docudrama in which a hypothetical anthrax attack on the subway system of a major city inflicts more than 50,000 deaths.
This sort of worst-case scenario is extremely unlikely. In truth, most terrorists aren't interested in staging catastrophic biological attacks, and those who are would have significant technical hurdles to overcome. 
 Over the past century, not a single American has died from bioterrorism. Hundreds of hoaxes involving anthrax have been staged during the past two years, but only one successful biological attack has been reported in the United States. In 1984, members of the Rajneeshee cult contaminated an Oregon town's salad bars with salmonella bacteria, making 751 people temporarily sick. The objective was to manipulate the outcome of a local election by keeping voters home.
There are reasons why there has been only one successful bioterrorist attack. Most politically motivated terrorist groups have no incentive to engage in biological warfare. Conventional weapons are easier to use than microbes, and bioterrorist attacks could alienate supporters and provoke severe government repression.
The sort of group likely to engage in bioterrorism has no political constituency and is motivated by apocalyptic prophecy, religious fanaticism, racist ideology or revenge. Yet groups of this kind are usually small and lack the money and the technological know-how to produce and deliver biological weapons.
True, a rogue state like Iraq might provide technical help, but only at grave risk: the sponsor could lose control over the terrorists and invite severe retaliation if its involvement became known. Or a wealthy terrorist group might try to recruit scientists formerly employed by the Soviet Union, for example, which had advanced bioweapons programs. But no evidence currently available points to such assistance.
Without technical help, small terrorist cells would have a hard time mounting a large-scale biological attack. Germs suitable for warfare are difficult to mass-produce and even harder to disseminate effectively. Microbes might be spread, for example, as an aerosol cloud, but it is technically complex and dangerous to produce a concentrated aerosol that could infect thousands of people. Contaminating urban water supplies is also beyond the ability of most terrorists, mainly because a huge volume of harmful agent would be needed to overcome the effects of dilution, chlorination and filtration.
In the late 1980's in Japan, the Aum Shinrikyo cult, which had vast financial resources, recruited scientists from leading Japanese universities to develop bioweapons. But even though the cult acquired anthrax bacteria and botulinum toxin and carried out several attacks in Japan, no injuries or deaths were reported. The cult then resorted to sarin, a chemical nerve agent. In March 1995, the group released the poison on the Tokyo subway, killing 12 people and injuring more than a thousand.
Given the constraints, a bioterrorist attack in the United States in which thousands of people are killed remains extremely unlikely. While planning for such an event is warranted, government authorities should pay attention to a far more probable scenario: small-scale incidents involving food or drug contamination, which could cause widespread fear and economic disruption.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Jesse Gordon and Alexandra Reshanov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (96%); TERRORISM (93%); BACTERIA (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); DEATHS (77%); BIOLOGY (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



362 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Agreement Has Led to Boom In U.S.-Canada Air Traffic

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The last time President Clinton came to Ottawa, Canada's capital, was in 1995. He visited the neo-Gothic Parliament building to witness the signing of an abstract piece of economic diplomacy: an open-skies agreement with Canada.
When Mr. Clinton returned there last week, the benefits were as concrete as the direct flights between Ottawa and Reagan National Airport in Washington that began two months ago, just in time for the President's advance team. 
 The new flight is part of a two-thirds increase in the number of flights between Canada and the United States over the last five years. Across the United States, 24 cities have begun direct flights to Canada. Freed to choose routes and equipped with smaller commuter jets, Air Canada, the nation's largest airline, has tripled its American destinations to 45.
By bringing the regional jet revolution to north-south air travel, Canada now paces Britain as the favored destination for Americans. Last year, about 8.4 million Americans boarded planes for each country.
In 1999, according to analysis by BACK Associates Inc., a research firm, there are 193,427 commercial flights from the United States to Canada -- more than the total for Asia and Europe combined.
Deregulation led Air Canada to inaugurate direct flights from its Toronto hub to a series of unlikely American destinations: Allentown and Harrisburg, Pa.; Charlotte, N.C.; Columbus, Ohio; New Orleans; Phoenix; Providence, R.I., and San Jose, Calif. As a result, Ontario now receives more American air travelers than France or Germany.
"Air Canada built up a nice model for adding direct city pairs," said Don Ogden, an industry analyst in Vancouver, British Columbia. "Over the first couple of years they were able to add route after route after route."
On the Canadian side, American and Canadian airlines have channeled most of the growth into the nation's two busiest airport hubs, Toronto and Vancouver. But new pairings have also evolved: Winnipeg-Denver, Edmonton-Chicago, Whitehorse-Anchorage, Ottawa-Philadelphia and Montreal-Portland, Me.
Moving aggressively into western Canada, Alaska Airlines has begun service from Seattle to Calgary and Edmonton in Alberta and Kelowna, British Columbia. Connecting the prairies, Northwest Airlines has started flights linking Minneapolis to Regina and Saskatoon in Saskatchewan and Kenora, Ontario.
On Canada's Atlantic side, Air Canada has service between Prince Edward Island and Boston and has just begun a daily flight from Halifax, Nova Scotia, to Dulles International Airport near Washington.
Since the open-skies agreement was signed in February 1995, Northwest and Continental Airlines have each started 10 flights to Canada. American Airlines has begun 8; United Airlines, 6; U S Airways, 4 and Delta, 3.
"Every day I find out there are new routes being established between our two countries," said Raymond Chretien, Canada's Ambassador to the United States, who came to Ottawa for the Clinton visit. "Open skies is great because it has changed the way we do business. It has brought far more Americans to Canada."
It has not always been this way. Before the accord was signed, passenger traffic was stagnating. Since the accord, it has jumped about one-third.
"There was enormous frustration on the part of business travelers, tourists and family members how to get to Canada," recalled Federico Pena, who was United States Transportation Secretary when the 1995 agreement was signed. Speaking from Denver, where he advises an investment firm, he added: "There were very, very few flights, very few locations. If you wanted to fly to Canada, you had to go through a number of airports."
Deregulation negotiations had dragged on for years, stalled largely because Air Canada and its smaller rival, Canadian Airlines, feared they would lose market share to American competitors. In the end, a fresh team was brought in and the Canadians were given a two-year head start to open new routes.
"I was at the signing on Parliament Hill in 1995," recalled Paul Frazer, spokesman for the Canadian Embassy in Washington. "There were all these other people, some with gray hair. I was trying to figure out who they all were. It turned out the room was full of negotiating teams going back 25 years."
Air Canada is currently fighting a hostile takeover proposal to merge with Canadian Airlines. Shareholders are to vote on the issue Nov. 8.
It is unclear how a merger might affect the new American air links, and there is some fear that fledgling American routes might be cut to increase the combined airlines' profitability.
Partly to head off criticism that he wants to create a monopoly, Gerald Schwartz, a Canadian financier who is leading the takeover bid, announced last week that if his merger plan was approved, he would largely freeze domestic fares and route networks for five years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Heading North"
There has been a boom in flights from the United States to Canada since a 1995 agreement to lower air travel restrictions between the two countries. Graph plots scheduled flights to Canada, from 1994 through an estimated 1999 (Source: BACK Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (84%); DAL (NYSE) (72%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (78%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%); MAINE, USA (72%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AIR CANADA; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES ACE AVIATION HOLDINGS INC (84%); AIR CANADA (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (72%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIR CANADA; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (78%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%); MAINE, USA (72%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



363 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Jones Industrials Drop On New Fears of Inflation
The Dow Jones industrial average and other stock market gauges plunged after an inflation report showed the biggest monthly increase in nine years in prices at the producer level and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, alarmed investors by warning that the stock market might be more risky than many people now believe. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 266.90 points, to 10,019.71. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fared even worse than the Dow, dropping 2.81 percent, to 1,247.41, The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.67 percent, or 75 points, to 2,731.83. Long-term interest rates have been rising lately, although the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond declined to 6.26 percent yesterday as investors sought alternatives to stocks. Page A1.
 
Paying a Call on the West Bank
Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, leading a delegation of American executives in the first United States Department of Commerce business mission to the Middle East to include the West Bank, sees encouraging signs. C2.
 
More Planes Are Heading to Canada
An open skies agreement signed in February 1995 has proved to be a boon to travel between the United States and Canada. Canada now matches Britain as the favored destination for Americans. Last year, about 8.4 million Americans boarded planes for each country. C2.
 
Vaccine Maker Withdraws Product
American Home Products, which makes the only licensed vaccine to prevent the most common cause of severe diarrhea in infants and children, is withdrawing the vaccine from the market because of concerns over possible side effects. A10.
 
Apple Backs Off Price Increase
Apple Computer backed off from a decision to raise prices retroactively on some computers that customers already had ordered and paid for. It did so after receiving many customer complaints. The turnaround came after the matter threatened to blemish an otherwise positive public image for Apple, which has delivered a string of popular new computers and strong financial results in the last year. C4.
 
B Sky B Weighs Kirch Group Stake
British Sky Broadcasting Group is in talks to buy a minority stake in the Kirch Group media company of Germany and might purchase part of Deutsche Telekom's cable business, according to Rupert Murdoch. But he denied speculation that B Sky B, which is 40 percent owned by Mr. Murdoch's company, the News Corporation, might buy or merge with Canal Plus, the big French pay-per-view company. C2.
 
Profits Decline 35% at Caterpillar
Caterpillar said a continued slump in heavy machinery sales lowered its third-quarter earnings by 35 percent. The company earned $219 million, or 61 cents a share, compared with $336 million, or 92 cents a share, in the corresponding quarter last year. The results were a penny over the expectations of Wall Street analysts. C14.
 
MBNA to Buy Credit Card Portfolio
The MBNA Corporation has agreed to buy the $1.5 billion credit card portfolio of Suntrust Banks, extending a string of acquisitions of credit card businesses that lack the size to compete. Atlanta-based Suntrust has 1.4 million customer cards. C3.
 
Brazilian Oil Giant Goes American
Petrobras, Brazil's big oil company, reduced shareholders' equity by about $2.4 billion as it shifted its accounting practices to United States standards in preparation for listing its shares in New York. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,019.71 down 266.90
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.26% down 0.06
The euro -- $1.089 up 0.01
The dollar -- 105.42 yen down 1.93
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BSY (LSE) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); DTE (FRA) (52%); DTE (BIT) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); GERMANY (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (85%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (81%); NEWS CORP (80%); PFIZER INC (54%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (54%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); GERMANY (66%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VACCINES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (85%); BONDS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BIOLOGICS MFG (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PAY PER VIEW (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



364 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
U.S. Envoy in Pakistan Meets With Coup Leader
The American Ambassador to Pakistan, William B. Milam, met with Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the leader of the coup that ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, just hours after the general declared himself the country's chief executive. The new Government froze the assets of more than 500 politicians. A1
 
Nobel for Medical Group
Doctors Without Borders, which sends medical personnel to some of the most destitute and dangerous parts of the world and encourages them not only to save lives, but also to condemn injustice, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. A1 

Chinese police forced their way into the home of the parents of a Chinese dissident living in exile, Wang Dan, who had been rumored to be a nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize. Mr. Wang was a student leader of the pro-democracy protests in 1989. A6
 
Israeli Settlers to Comply
Most of the Israelis encamped in the 12 settlements that Prime Minister Ehud Barak targeted for eviction said they would protest but not resort to violence. A1
 
Blame Traded on Treaty Vote
The Clinton Administration and Democratic leaders intensified their attacks on Republicans for voting against the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, but Republicans said the statements showed that Democrats were more interested in a political issue than a treaty. A4
 
Russian Advance in Chechnya
Russian troops, markedly expanding their operations in the rebellious republic of Chechnya, have crossed a strategic river and apparently control a ridge from which they could bombard the airport and suburbs of the capital, Grozny. A3
 
Albanians Protest in Kosovo
French-led troops and foreign police officers drove back Albanians trying to storm across a bridge to the Serbian side of Kosovska Mitrovica, a town in Kosovo. A7
 
Tumult Over Indonesia Election
Violent demonstrations and a parliamentary session continued in Jakarta as delegates began presenting formal responses to President B. J. Habibie's speech, in which he sought their votes next Wednesday when they select the next President. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A8-16
 
New Whitewater Chief; Inquiry Intensifies
At a time Clinton Administration officials had hoped that the Whitewater independent counsel office would soon shut down, lawyers involved with the inquiry said the office had intensified its investigation into matters that could still prove difficult for the White House. Robert W. Ray has been appointed to succeed Kenneth W. Starr as independent counsel. A1
 
Crackdown on 'Date Rape' Drug
The death of a Michigan student last January has galvanized an effort to crack down on GHB, an increasingly popular recreational and "date rape" drug. Two Michigan Republicans have sponsored bills in the House and Senate that would add GHB to the Government's list of the most-controlled substances. A8
 
Diarrhea Vaccine Withdrawn
American Home Products, the manufacturer of the only licensed vaccine to prevent the most common cause of severe diarrhea among infants and children, said it was withdrawing the vaccine from the market because of concerns that it could cause a painful and potentially fatal bowel obstruction. A11
 
Fossil Man's Origin Recast
The ancient bones of Kennewick Man, found in the banks of the Columbia River in Washington State three years ago, cannot be linked to any modern American Indian tribes or to Europeans, a scientific panel has concluded. A11
 
Campaign Finance Vote Likely
Senate Democrats managed to score a parliamentary victory that appeared to guarantee them test votes next week on a wide-ranging bill to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws and on a more limited measure to ban unregulated donations to political parties. A12
 
Storm Causes Flooding
Hurricane Irene brought heavy rains and strong wind gusts to southern Florida, causing flooding in some areas as well as traffic tie-ups and power failures. A 150-foot freighter was washed onto the beach in Broward County, and a tornado sent several people to hospitals. A16
 
Guidelines on Inmate Testing
A panel offered preliminary guidelines for clinical tests on prison inmates, promising not to repeat the mistakes of the past. A11
 
Beliefs A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Federal Reversal Lets Hospitals Keep $1 Billion
The Clinton Administration reversed itself and agreed to let New York hospitals keep $1 billion in Medicare money that the Federal Government had been trying to get back. The decision came one day after Hillary Rodham Clinton, a likely candidate for the United States Senate from New York, said the Federal Government should give more money to New York hospitals. B1
 
Aid for Flood Victims
New Jersey legislators are nearing an agreement that would provide $50 million in assistance to victims of last month's flooding amid reports that the total amount of property damage may top $500 million, twice the state's original estimate. B1
 
Splitting Street Crime Unit
After eight months of intense criticism since the fatal shooting of Amadou Diallo, Police Commissioner Howard Safir said that the Street Crime Unit would be broken up into eight separate units reporting to regional commanders. B2
 
Tape Played in Subway Case
A videotape confession by a schizophrenic man accused of pushing a woman to her death in front of a subway train was played to a Manhattan jury as prosecutors concluded the presentation of their murder case against him. B2
 
New York Digest A13
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-16
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Braves Defeat Mets
Tom Glavine pitched seven strong innings to lead Atlanta to a 1-0 victory over New York in the National League Championship Series. The Braves lead the series 3-0. D1
 
Cleveland Dismisses Manager
The Indians fired Mike Hargrove, who had directed them to five consecutive division championships and two American League pennants, but no World Series championships. D1
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Josef Locke
The singer was 82. He brought tears to the eyes of audiences in Ireland and Britain in the 1940's and 1950's with his singing of traditional sentimental Irish songs. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Nervous Market Falls Sharply
A jittery stock market dropped sharply after an inflation report showed prices rising at an unexpectedly rapid rate and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, alarmed investors by warning that the stock market might be riskier than many people believe. The market suffered its worst week in a decade. A1
 
Prices at the producer level shot up 1.1 percent in September, the biggest monthly increase in nine years, the Government reported. Analysts said the increase in the Producer Price Index, while nearly three times what had been anticipated, overstated any inflation threat. C1
 
Deal for Copper Producer
Asarco said that its board had voted to accept a newly sweetened $1.18 billion all-cash takeover bid from Grupo Mexico and that it planned to break its $1.17 billion cash and stock merger agreement with Phelps Dodge. C1
 
Setback for Russian Securities
Russia's top securities regulator resigned in frustration, in the latest in a series of troubling signs that the country is ill equipped to defend the interests of shareholders and foreign investors. Dmitri V. Vasiliev, chairman of the Federal Securities Commission, said that Russia was failing to protect investors from abuse and expropriation. C1
 
B Sky B May Buy Kirch Stake
Rupert Murdoch said that British Sky Broadcasting Group was in talks to buy a minority stake in the Kirch Group media company of Germany and might purchase part of Deutsche Telekom's cable business. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Governor Pataki's friends; doctors taking control; the Peace Prize.
 
Bridge B12
 
TV Listings B16
 
Crossword B14
 
Weather A16
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); 

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); SERBIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (68%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (51%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); SERBIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CHINA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COUPS (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DATE RAPE DRUGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (83%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); LAWYERS (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (66%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); EHUD BARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



365 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: For Many Pakistanis, Coup Opens to Applause

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER with STEVE LeVINE 

DATELINE: RAWALPINDI, Pakistan, Oct. 15

 BODY:
If there is such a thing as a good coup, this one is winning raves in the bazaars of Rawalpindi.
A decade of crooked and incompetent civilian rule before the takeover this week, a decade of competently brutal dictatorship before that, and life keeps getting harder for Pakistan's 138 million souls. A Pakistani poet, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, once was asked what would become of his nation. "My great fear," he said, "is that nothing will happen. Things will go on the way they are." 
 There is not much passion for politicians or for going to the polls again. There is a thirst for leadership, or even something stronger.
"I don't think there should be any elections," said Kalsoon Syed, an elementary school principal. "There should be a strong dictator."
The American Ambassador, William B. Milam, met today for 90 minutes with the coup leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, at the army's headquarters here, just hours after the general declared himself the country's chief executive, suspended the Constitution and dismissed Parliament. The general's Government also froze the assets of more than 500 politicians, including Nawaz Sharif, the ousted Prime Minister, and his predecessor, Benazir Bhutto. A United States Embassy spokesman said the Ambassador had given the general a message from President Clinton calling for a return to civilian rule as soon as possible.
Mr. Clinton may be calling for a return to democratic principles, but politicians here have rarely practiced them. For 11 years, since the end of the last military dictatorship, most of them have behaved like medieval barons, plundering what remained of the nation's wealth.
What was left was not enough to run a civil society. The principal export of Pakistan today is Pakistanis. The most talented, the best educated, the potential leaders are gone. So nostalgia for a strongman fills the marketplace.
That feeling may support the military Government of General Musharraf, who seized power this week, becoming the latest in a series of rulers who have led and misled the nation for 25 of its 52 years.
Pakistan was created in 1947 out of the violent partition of India. While it often has been ruled by military dictatorships, it has also had the trappings of democracy: a Parliament, a lively press, political debate.
But to many Pakistanis, democracy is a facade. Waheed Zaman, 30, the well-spoken owner of a trophy shop, said his middle-class family was "like other people; we are fed up with politicians; we have love for our armed forces despite their checkered history."
Mr. Zaman and others in the teeming bazaar here, 25 miles southwest of the national capital, Islamabad, spoke in heroic terms of a man who was once was a national demon: Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, who ruled Pakistan for 11 years. His rule and his life ended in 1988 in a plane crash, a still unexplained mid-air explosion that also took the life of Arnold Raphel, the American Ambassador to Pakistan.
"General Zia was an angel," said a grizzled rickshaw driver named Amir Khan, 59. "Then there was no inflation. Crime was under control. When I heard he was killed, I thought Pakistan was an orphan."
That sentiment is sometimes tinged with blood; many Pakistanis want their political miscreants punished. "These smugglers, these bribe-taking people, should be behind bars or hanged," said Mrs. Syed, the school principal.
"Pervez Musharraf, my prayers and my best wishes are with him," she said. "This man is a general. He knows law and order and how to get things done. We expect him to do things for the common people."
Much needs to be done. Pakistan is a basket case, and the coup may make things worse.
Today two-thirds of the country's wealth goes to the military and to paying its debts. Three-quarters of the aid Pakistan receives from the International Monetary Fund goes to pay off i.o.u.'s to the I.M.F. That aid was immediately suspended after the coup, as was a trade agreement with the European Union. Pakistan has only $1.4 billion in foreign reserves -- just enough to buy three weeks of imports.
In the troubled two-and-a half-year tenure of Mr. Sharif, Pakistan's currency, the rupee, lost half its value against the dollar. Everything in the bazaar seems to cost far more than it did in 1997. And the $600 million in annual military and economic aid Pakistan received from the United States in General Zia's day ended after he died and when the cold war was over, blocked by law after the United States acknowledged that Pakistan was building a nuclear bomb.
Washington is now uneasily contemplating the prospect of dealing with a Pakistani dictator once more. Western diplomats said the general had given Ambassador Milam a preview of the speech he is to give on Saturday, in which he is expected to set forth his plans for dealing with Pakistan's crushing problems.
Those plans may include a slow return to what the West would like to call democracy. It may come, but for now the bazaar has spoken, and in much the same voice as that of Talat Massoud, a retired lieutenant general who served as Defense Secretary from 1988 to 1990.
"The coup was a good thing," he said, in a voice devoid of happiness or anticipation. "There was no choice left for the military. Our politicians put us on the brink of disaster. They were making a mockery of democracy. The Prime Minister had corrupted every institution. The judiciary was bought off; there was no justice. The police were run as a fiefdom. What kind of democracy was that?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Rawalpindi: People in the bazaar of Rawalpindi are 'fed up with politicians.' (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; PAKISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); COUPS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); ARMIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ETHICS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; LEVINE, STEVE; MILAM, WILLIAM B (AMB); MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHARIF, NAWAZ; BHUTTO, BENAZIR PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (71%); NAWAZ SHARIF (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



366 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 6;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
BIG SELLOFF CAPS DOW'S WORST WEEK SINCE OCTOBER '89

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
A jittery stock market dropped sharply yesterday after an inflation report showed prices rising at an unexpectedly rapid rate and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, alarmed investors by warning that the stock market might be riskier than many people believe. The market suffered its worst week in a decade.
The Dow Jones industrial average traded below 10,000 for the first time since April. It rallied a bit, to close at 10,019.71, but still was down 266.90 points, or 2.59 percent, for the day. The weekly decline of 5.9 percent was the worst since a fall of 7.8 percent in the week ended Oct. 13, 1989. That problems are happening again in October -- a month that has recorded steep drops before -- added to the market's nervousness. 
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fared even worse than the Dow, dropping 2.8 percent yesterday, to close at 1,247.41, and falling 6.6 percent for the week. That index is up just 1.48 percent since the end of 1998, while the Dow, which has a larger representation of energy issues that have benefited from rising oil prices, is still up 9.13 percent for the year.
The market has been unusually volatile in recent weeks, reflecting concerns that the Fed might raise short-term interest rates again when it meets next month. At the same time, the market has been pushing up long-term interest rates, although they fell a bit yesterday. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond, which set a two-year high of 6.32 percent on Thursday, slipped to 6.26 percent yesterday as investors sought alternatives to stocks.
All this has come against the backdrop of a booming economy, which has produced strong corporate profits. "Earnings have been good, but interest rates have surprised people by rising," said Byron Wien, an equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Inflation is not dead, and that has been the undoing of the market."
The Government reported yesterday that the Producer Price Index rose 1.1 percent in September, the largest monthly climb in nine years. Page B1. While most of that could be explained by rising prices of tobacco, cars, food and energy, the figure was much larger than expected, and that contributed to the weakness in the stock market.
Mr. Greenspan, addressing a banking conference Thursday night in Washington, was careful to express no opinion on whether stock prices were justified by the current economic outlook. But he cautioned that stock prices had increased in recent years in significant part because investors think equities are far less risky than they have historically been thought to be, making prices vulnerable if such confidence were to fade.
"History tells us that sharp reversals in confidence occur abruptly, most often with little advance notice," Mr. Greenspan said. "Panic reactions in the market are characterized by dramatic shifts in behavior that are intended to minimize short-term losses." He warned that banks should carry high levels of reserves to protect themselves against such an occurrence.
Hugh Johnson, an economist at the First Albany Corporation, said: "He's telling bankers to be prudent. That is extremely benign. Does it signal a change in policy? I don't think so."
The Fed is widely expected to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter-percentage point when it meets on Nov. 16. If it does, that will be the third increase since June, completely erasing the three cuts it made last year, when the Fed feared world recession in the wake of the Asian and Russian financial crises. Asian economies have since recovered much of their losses, and many European countries are also doing better.
"When global growth recovers from a significant period of weakness, inflation and interest rates tend to go up," said Doug Cliggott, an equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities.
Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company, said he believed the producer price figure had "ended the debate" about whether the Fed would raise rates again. "They recognize the economy is growing too fast, and they are going to raise rates until they slow it down," he said.
Though Mr. Greenspan said little in his speech about what he was going to do, markets around the world weakened as soon as reports of it were distributed Thursday night. Major stock markets in both Europe and Asia fell by at least 1 percent yesterday, although none performed as poorly as the United States market.
Until recently, the Nasdaq composite index has been a beacon of strength in the market, reflecting its heavy concentration of technology issues that have been market leaders. In fact, that index hit a record high on Monday. But it fell 2.67 percent, or 75 points, yesterday, to 2,731.83, and is now down 6.7 percent since the Monday high, as leading technology stocks have slipped. Yesterday, Microsoft, Cisco and Intel all lost at least $2 a share. Still, the Nasdaq composite is up 24.6 percent in 1999.
By some measures, the stock market in 1999 has been more volatile than at any time since 1987, and that volatility seems to have intensified in recent weeks. Fane Lozman, chairman of Scanshift, a Chicago research firm, noted that the Dow has lost more than 200 points on seven days this year -- four of them since Sept. 21. "This shows there is a change in mentality here," he said.
The nervousness stems in part from the memories of past Octobers. The 12th anniversary of the 1987 crash arrives on Tuesday, 10 days before the 70th anniversary of the worst day of the 1929 crash. The last week this bad, exactly 10 years ago, came as the market was shocked by the collapse of a proposed buyout of United Airlines.
Since World War II, only 16 weeks have been worse than this one, in terms of percentage decline for the Dow, according to Birinyi Associates, a research firm. For the S.& P. 500, this week ranked 11th since the war.
Though it is misleading to pay attention to Dow points because the index has gone up so much in recent years, this week's decline was the largest ever in points. The 630.85-point decrease surpassed the drop of 524.30 points, set in the week ended Sept. 24.
The market's jitters have so far not stopped the booming new-issues market. An Internet stock called Women.com went public yesterday at $10 a share and closed at $18.50, although that was down from a high of $23.375 reached in midafternoon. Companies scheduled to go public next week include Martha Stewart Omnimedia and World Wrestling Federation Entertainment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday showing weekly drops in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index misstated the period covered. The drops were the worst since World War II, not the worst ever for the index.

GRAPHIC: Thomas Flynn, a trader, working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday as stock prices fell by large margins. Inflation and interest rate concerns have added to a case of October nervousness. (Associated Press)(pg. C3)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)
 
Chart/Graph: "From Bad to Worse"
The prices of stock index futures, which trade throughout the night and day, plunged Thursday night after the text of a speech by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was released at 7 P.M., and then fell sharply again after the Government released an inflation report at 8:30 A.M.
 
Graph plots December futures on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, from 4 P.M. Thursday through 4 P.M. yesterday.
 
Worst weekly drops in the S.& P. 500
 

WEEK ENDING	CHANGE	Oct. 23 '87	-12.20%	Oct. 16 '87	- 9.12%	Sept. 13 '74	- 8.71%	Sept. 12 '86	- 7.91%	June 30 '50	- 7.58%	Sept. 27 '74	- 7.41%	Dec. 6 '74	- 7.09%	Oct. 13 '89	- 7.00%	Dec. 4 '87	- 6.83%	May 25 '62	- 6.82%	Oct. 15 '99	- 6.63%	May 17 '47	- 6.48%	Aug. 16 '74	- 6.42%	Oct. 20 '78	- 6.41%	Nov. 6 '48	- 6.23	
 
(Sources: Bridge Information Systems; Standard & Poor's; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOD PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999



367 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Endorsement Brings Big Labor Test for Gore

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15

 BODY:
The nation has lost 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the last 18 months, despite the economic boom, and organized labor's eagerness to see that trend reversed is shaping up as an economic test for President Clinton and a huge political test for Vice President Al Gore.
Union leaders say that even though Mr. Gore won the endorsement of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. at its convention here, the Administration will need to take strong steps toward stopping the loss of manufacturing jobs if the Vice President hopes to excite rank-and-file workers to vote for him. 
 The job losses have become perhaps the most important issue to labor unions in six large industrial states that are crucial swing states in Presidential elections: Illinois, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Many officials from the powerful industrial unions in those states -- the auto workers, the steelworkers and the machinists -- say that if Mr. Gore hopes to motivate union activists to campaign for him and union members to vote for him, he must address labor's concerns on manufacturing and the related subject of trade.
"It's one thing for the Vice President to get the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s endorsement, and it's quite another to mobilize our members," said George Becker, president of the United Steelworkers of America. Mr. Becker met with Mr. Gore this week to press him on trade and manufacturing. "I have one overall goal in life," Mr. Becker said, "and that is to reverse the trend of de-industrializing America and to stop these insane trade laws that force our manufacturers to compete against impossible odds."
The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which is a force in the Middle West as well as in two important early primary states, New York and California, is also warning the Vice President that the Administration needs to do more to stop industrial decline. The teamsters and auto workers were the only unions to oppose the A.F.L.-C.I.O. endorsement of Mr. Gore, and both unions are demanding firmer commitments from the Administration and the Vice President on trade if they are to back him.
Mindful of these pressures, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have called for some labor-friendly provisions in trade treaties and have created a task force to study the plight of manufacturing. While labor leaders are encouraged by these steps, they say the important test will be what specific actions the Administration takes -- and whether Mr. Gore will disagree with the Administration if he feels it does not go far enough.
Complicating matters for the Vice President, many middle-of-the-road Democrats and business executives are cautioning the Administration and Mr. Gore not to become tools of labor and not to comply with demands that they deem protectionist.
Labor unions, which are considered vital to turning out the Democratic base in general elections, have a long wish list for the Administration, and they hope the Vice President will press labor's viewpoint.
Unions want Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore to make sure that any future trade agreements include penalties against trading partners that allow violations of minimal international labor standards, like child labor rules. Unions oppose admitting China to the World Trade Organization, saying a country that uses prison labor and bars independent trade unions should not be given more access to the American market.
While avoiding their blatantly protectionist language of a few years ago, labor leaders have attacked the record trade deficit, which may top $300 billion this year. They also dislike the strong dollar, which has cost American manufacturing jobs by making American goods more expensive overseas and by making foreign goods cheaper.
Christopher Lehane, a spokesman for the Vice President's campaign, said, "Al Gore agrees with the many representatives of labor, including those from the industrial unions, that there is nothing more important that we can do to make sure we can expand our prosperity to all portions of the country, and that includes, most prominently, our industrial sector -- our steelworkers, our auto workers, our truck drivers, our shipbuilders."
Union leaders say that whatever reservations they have about the Administration and Mr. Gore on trade, the views of former Senator Bill Bradley, the Vice President's only rival for the Democratic Presidential nomination, are no better.
The 1.4 million-member teamsters union has its own specific demand, that the Administration stop a provision in the North American Free Trade Agreement from taking effect on Jan. 1. That provision would lift restrictions that bar Mexican truckers from driving in the United States.
Pushing for continued restrictions on cross-border trucking, teamster officials argue that most Mexican trucks are unsafe. They fear that a huge influx of low-wage Mexican drivers would wipe out the jobs of thousands of American truckers.
In a warning to Mr. Gore, Michael Mathis, the teamsters' political director, said, "I think we'd be very much less excited about Gore if the border is open Jan. 1. We'll be very, very disappointed."
Many union leaders have told the Vice President to heed a lesson from 1994, when the Democrats lost control of the House. That year, union members were so angry with President Clinton and the Democrats over passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement that an unusual number of union members decided not to vote, giving the Republicans an edge in many districts.
An early test of whether the Administration and Mr. Gore will pass labor's scrutiny on trade will come in Seattle on Nov. 30, when the World Trade Organization's ministerial meeting begins. The meeting is expected to set ground rules for a new multiyear round of talks aimed at liberalizing world trade.
The unions want future trade pacts to include basic labor protections and to give countries the right to impose penalties against countries that violate minimum labor standards, like a ban on child labor. But many companies and third-world countries say labor-related provisions have no place in trade agreements, and they are pressuring Mr. Clinton and his Vice President to ignore labor's pleas.
"They got to be very careful about how they handle Seattle, notwithstanding labor's endorsement of Gore," said Jay Mazur, chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s international affairs committee and president of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. "Remember, our people are upset about losing 500,000 manufacturing jobs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore greeted John J. Sweeney, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., on Wednesday, just after the organization -- with the teamsters and auto workers dissenting -- endorsed Mr. Gore's Presidential bid. (Sam Mircovich/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (84%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; MICHIGAN; MISSOURI; OHIO; PENNSYLVANIA; WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENDORSEMENTS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ELECTION ISSUES LABOR UNIONS (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



368 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Issue by Issue, First Lady Details Differences With Giuliani

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton moved to draw a series of sharp differences with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday, attacking the legacy of Ronald Reagan's economic policies two weeks after Mr. Giuliani celebrated them, and assailing Republicans for blocking a minimum wage increase and promoting the use of school vouchers.
Mrs. Clinton, in the course of a 20-minute speech and a news conference, did not once mention the name of her likely opponent in next year's race for the United States Senate. But her audience -- members of District Council 37, the city workers' union, which supported Mr. Giuliani's mayoral bid in 1997 -- clearly understood her meaning. They cheered boisterously as she methodically attacked positions Mr. Giuliani has embraced while laying the groundwork for his expected campaign. 
 It was by any measure the closest that Mrs. Clinton has come to engaging Mr. Giuliani. The litany of issues that she mentioned, and her repeated allusions to Mr. Reagan, strongly suggested that Mrs. Clinton, like most Democratic candidates running for statewide office in this Democratic state over the last 20 years, would try to frame the contest as a stark choice between Democratic and Republican views.
"I'm talking about what I believe and drawing a contrast with others who don't believe as I do," the First Lady said at a news conference yesterday morning. "I don't think that Reaganomics and supply-side economics was the right direction for this country. I don't think studying the minimum wage to death instead of raising it is fair to working people. I don't think that turning back the comprehensive test ban treaty was in our national security.
"So on this and many other issues, there is a clear contrast -- and there will be a very clear choice," Mrs. Clinton said.
Asked why she never mentioned the Mayor by name, the First Lady, who is in the midst of eight days of unbroken campaigning in New York, responded: "I am not a candidate yet. I am not engaged in the campaign. But I am laying out the positions that I believe in, that I think that most New Yorkers agree with. So as we move forward into the year 2000 -- which is actually the election year, as opposed to this year -- I think that those contrasts and choices will become clearer."
Mrs. Clinton's remarks came at an event that demonstrated the extent of her support among New York's labor unions. District Council 37 supported Mr. Giuliani when he ran for mayor in 1997, in what was a particularly unwelcome moment for Ruth W. Messinger, the Democratic candidate. The union, though, is under new leadership, and from the moment Mrs. Clinton walked in the door -- to shouts of "Run, Hillary, run" -- it was clear that Mr. Giuliani could not rely on its support this time.
"I will say this: When you announce, District Council 37 endorses," the union's administrator, Lee Saunders, said as he introduced Mrs. Clinton. "Aren't I right? Stand up! Aren't I right?" The audience rose in cheers.
Mr. Saunders said afterward that there was a "clear difference in the positions that they take," referring to Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton. Asked about the change since the union endorsed Mr. Giuliani in 1997, the responded: "The mayor's race was the mayor's race. This is the Senate race."
The Mayor, through a spokeswoman, declined to respond to the specifics of Mrs. Clinton's remarks yesterday. "She is right that she is not a candidate," the spokeswoman, Sunny Mindel, said. "She is not a resident. So it is difficult to believe how she might be able to speak for most New Yorkers, or for that matter any New Yorkers."
The First Lady's speech wove together issues that she and her aides have raised piecemeal in recent weeks, in an attempt to prod Mr. Giuliani to take the Republican side on legislation being debated in Congress. The effort aspires to blunt what Mrs. Clinton's advisers see as one of Mr. Giuliani's strengths -- that he is a moderate Republican who can easily draw Democratic and independent votes.
In recent weeks, Mr. Giuliani has aligned himself with Republicans by opposing ratification of a nuclear test ban treaty and declining to endorse legislation passed by the House to regulate health maintenance organizations.
Mr. Giuliani has also declined to endorse an increase in the minimum wage to $6.50 from $5.50, pending studies that he said were necessary to make certain that a higher rate would not lead to the elimination of many low-paying jobs.
Mrs. Clinton devoted much of her attention yesterday to attacking the economic policies of Mr. Reagan, previewing a campaign strategy that evoked Mario M. Cuomo's first successful campaign for governor in 1982. Her remarks came less than three weeks after Mr. Giuliani gave a speech at the Reagan Library in California, presenting himself as a Reagan Republican.
"We need to make sure," Mrs. Clinton said in her speech yesterday, "that we have someone representing New York who will stand up against any effort to go back, to make a U-turn to the days of trickle-down, supply-side economics. Anybody who praises Reaganomics and supply-side economics must not have a good memory about what was happening in New York in the 1980's."
"Let's not let anyone take us back," she said.
She also drew an unstated contrast with Mr. Giuliani in noting his support for school vouchers, something that Mrs. Clinton and labor leaders say would harm the public school system. "There are some who would undermine and dismantle the public school system in our country," she said.
Along the same lines, Mrs. Clinton was critical of Republicans for passing legislation to use part of the nation's projected surplus for cutting taxes, a position that Mr. Giuliani also said he supported. Mrs. Clinton, like her husband and most Democrats, said she supported smaller tax cuts and using the money to shore up the Social Security and Medicare systems. "The Republicans in Congress would instead spend $800 billion in exploding tax cuts," she said. "That is wrong. It will not solve our problems." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 DISTRICT COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 DISTRICT COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (57%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; NAGOURNEY, ADAM RUDY GIULIANI (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



369 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ASKS RUSSIA TO ALTER TREATY FOR HELP ON RADAR

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 16

 BODY:
In a dramatic reversal of previous policy, the United States is now offering to help Russia complete a large missile tracking radar if Moscow agrees in exchange to renegotiate what both countries long saw as a landmark arms control agreement.
The confidential proposal to help the Russians finish their radar near Irkutsk, Siberia, is part of an intensive American campaign laying the groundwork for a defense against potential missile attacks from North Korea and other nations, Russian and American officials say. 
 Such a nationwide defense is prohibited by the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, a pact viewed for more than 25 years as the bedrock of arms control. Moscow has so far refused to alter it, and announced on Friday -- two days after the Senate voted down a nuclear test ban treaty -- that it would work with China to seek support at the United Nations against American efforts to alter the accord.
The increasingly heated dispute over antimissile defenses comes as the structure of arms control appears to be under siege. The Senate vote drew widespread criticism around the world. The Russian Parliament, meanwhile, has blocked progress on further arms reductions by failing to ratify the Start II treaty.
In addition, the war Russia is fighting in Chechnya means that Moscow has hundreds more armored vehicles in the Northern Caucusus than it is permitted to under a key 1990 accord limiting ground troops and conventional weapons in Europe.
"It used to be argued that rogue states were the main threat to strategic stability," said Sergei Rogov, the director of the U.S.-Canada Institute. "Now it is the United States and Russia who refuse to ratify and implement agreements and who violate their terms."
Senior American officials insist that the Clinton Administration is not aiming to nullify the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. Rather, they maintain, the goal is to update the accord so that the United States can defend itself against new missile threats while at the same time avoiding a new arms race with Russia and China. A formal decision on whether to proceed with antimissile defenses is to be made by next summer, based on technical, economic and arms control considerations.
But Russian officials insist that Washington has vastly exaggerated the missile threat arising from undeclared or potential nuclear powers and say that weakening the ABM treaty would be a reckless move.
"What happened to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was a disaster," said Grigory V. Berdennikof, a senior arms control specialist at Russia's Foreign Ministry.
"If it happens to the ABM treaty," he said, "it will be a quadruple disaster. The pattern is clear."
When the ABM treaty was concluded, the argument against development of national antimissile defense systems in Russia and the United States was that they would encourage both sides to accumulate more arms to penetrate such shields.
When the Soviet Union built a radar in the 1980's at Krasnoyarsk, Siberia, to fill a gap in its radar coverage, the United States argued successfully that it was a violation of the treaty and pressed the Russians to dismantle it.
In January, however, the Clinton Administration took a different tack. President Clinton sent President Boris N. Yeltsin a letter asking Russia to renegotiate the treaty to permit a limited system of defenses.
The Administration insisted that the accord had to be updated because nations like North Korea and Iran were developing the means to manufacture ocean-spanning ballistic missiles. American intelligence analysts revised their estimates after they failed to anticipate North Korea's unsuccessful effort to launch a tiny satellite into space in 1998 using a three-stage missile.
"During the next 15 years, the United States will mostly face ICBM threats from Russia, China, and North Korea, probably from Iran, and possibly from Iraq," American intelligence experts said in a report last month.
Critics of the Clinton Administration, however, say politics was the driving force behind the proposal. They charge that Mr. Clinton is trying to insure that Vice President Al Gore could not be accused of being soft on defense in the coming presidential race by rushing ahead with plans for an antimissile system that may not be effective. "The proposed defense is fundamentally very fragile," said Theodore A. Postol, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It seems to be a case of subordinating national security to domestic politics."
With strong support for an antimissile defense in the Republican-dominated Congress, financing is not a problem. The hard part is persuading Russia and China that they should cooperate with the American antimissile plan and not respond by expanding their nuclear arsenals.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott has held a series of high-level meetings with the Russians, including a session this week in Helsinki with Grigory Mamedov, a senior official at the Russian Foreign Ministry.
By outlining their plans, the Americans are seeking to reassure the Russians that the proposed missile defense is not aimed at them.
According to Russian and American officials familiar with the talks, the first phase of the American antimissile system is to be completed by 2005. It involves building a powerful new battle-management radar in Alaska and deploying up to 100 antimissile interceptors there. American early warning radars in Greenland and Britain and on the east and west coasts of the United States would also be upgraded.
American officials assert that the system would be able to stop a limited attack involving relatively unsophisticated missiles.
The second phase is to be completed by 2010, and could involve construction of a similar radar at Grand Forks, N.D., and deployment of 100 interceptors there.
This level of defense, American officials maintain, would enable the United States to protect itself against a limited missile attack that involved several tens of missiles with more sophisticated warheads and decoys.
But the defense could easily be swamped by Russia's vast arsenal, thus preserving strategic equilibrium between Washington and Moscow, American officials say.
In addition to outlining the proposed missile defense, Washington has sought to reassure the Russians by offering cooperation in several areas.
An offer to help the cash-strapped Russians complete a large radar at Mishelevka, 60 miles northwest of Irkutsk, is included, which could cost millions of dollars. Oriented to the southeast, the radar covers North Korea, among other Asian nations.
Washington has also suggested that it might upgrade a Russian-controlled radar at Lyaki in Azerbaijan. Oriented toward the south, the radar covers Iran and other Middle Eastern nations. Under the American plan, the Lyaki station might be jointly manned with the Russians. But the proposal has yet to be negotiated with the Government of Azerbaijan, and key details about American access to Russian radar data have not been worked out.
Other proposals include Russian visits to American early warning radar stations and, perhaps, access to their data, including that from the new radar to be built in Alaska. American officials have also proposed joint computer simulations of antimissile systems and collaboration in deploying satellite systems.
So far, the Russians have said that weakening the ABM treaty is too high a price to pay. "We are open to cooperation," said Mr. Berdennikof, the Russian arms control specialist. "But if our cooperation means changing the ABM treaty our answer is 'thanks but no thanks.' "
Russian officials insist that the United States has exaggerated North Korea's capacity to develop long-range missiles while minimizing the forms of political and military leverage Washington has over the North.
But Russia's major concern is the effect of the American plan on its nuclear arsenal. Russian officials fear that the costly new radars and command control system the United States might erect in the next century will become the building blocks for a more comprehensive antimissile defense.
Since Russia is too poor to engage in that kind of arms race, the only way it could maintain a strategic balance with the United States would be to cast aside the agreements it negotiated with Washington in the past and build up its arsenal.
One relatively cheap countermeasure would be deployment of land-based missiles with multiple warheads -- either old SS-18 missiles or new Topol-M missiles -- a move that would undo one of the main achievements of arms control.
Russian officials also say they have already begun to consult with China about possible political and military cooperation in the event that the United States withdraws from the ABM treaty.
American intelligence experts say that China will have "tens of missiles" that can reach the United States by 2015, a threat especially vulnerable to American advances in antimissile defenses.
A senior American official dismissed many of the Russian objections to renegotiating the ABM treaty as public posturing intended to weaken Western support for missile defenses and said that it differed from what he called the businesslike tone of private meetings. Still, there seems little doubt that the dispute over an antimissile system will escalate sharply in coming months.
The Clinton Administration says it will not make a formal decision on whether to proceed with its anti-missile program before next summer, although it is widely presumed that Washington will go ahead.
The timing is determined by intelligence estimates and budgetary procedures in the United States. But it means that the decision is likely to fall on the eve of the Russian presidential election, insuring that the issue gets added to the growing litany of bitter American-Russian disputes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Improving Missile Defenses in the United States and Russia"
As part of an effort to defend against potential missile attacks from North Korea, the United States is proposing to construct new antimissile radar systems in the United States and to help complete a large missile-tracking radar in Siberia. Upgrades are also planned to some of the current American early-warning systems. Map shows proposed new antimissile radar sites. current antimissile radar sites, estimated angle of coverage
 
PROPOSAL FOR U.S. MISSILE-DEFENSE SYSTEMS
Phase 1 to be completed by 2005
 
ALASKA
New battle-management radar
Deployment of up to100 antimissile interceptors
 
CALIFORNIA AND CAPE COD, BRITAIN, GREENLAND
Upgrades to current early-warning systems
Phase 2 to be completed by 2010
 
NORTH DAKOTA
Possible new battle-management radar Deployment of up to 100 antimissile interceptors
 
PROPOSAL FOR RUSSIAN MISSILE-TRACKING SYSTEMS
 
SIBERIA
United States helps complete new missile- tracking radar
 
AZERBAIJAN
United States helps upgrade current Russian-operated radar
 
(Source: Prof. Theodore A. Postol, Massachusetts Institute of Technology)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; RADAR TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); RADAR SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMS RACE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



370 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-16
 
U.S. Offers Moscow Radar System for Pact
The United States, in a dramatic reversal of previous policy, is offering to help Russia complete a large missile tracking radar if Moscow agrees, in exchange, to renegotiate what both countries long saw as a landmark arms control agreement. 1
 
Iran's Jews Face Legal Battle
A chill has spread through the small Iranian Jewish population since the arrest in March of 13 Jews on charges that they spied for Israel. Although the United States and dozens of other countries have appealed for the case to be dropped, the Jews, and a group of Muslims arrested with them, face the prospect of trial. 1 

Pakistan General Vows Honesty
Pakistan's new military ruler is promising to give the people what they want, an end to the country's chronic corruption. Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's self-proclaimed chief executive, pledged "credibility, transparency and accountability in running state affairs." 1
 
Czechs' Wall Stirs Protest
A small "rust belt" town in the Czech Republic, defying the appeals of the Czech Government and the European Union, has built a 70-yard-long wall down a street to separate Czechs from Gypsies. 4
 
Troops Clash With Timorese
Australian troops, in the sharpest clash of their three-week deployment in East Timor, reported that they had been ambushed and pinned down by armed men, and that they had killed three before being rescued by helicopter. 9
 
NATIONAL 18-38
 
North Carolina Pays Price For Gaps in Farm Rules
In the aftermath of Hurricane Floyd, North Carolina's ground water, wells and rivers have been contaminated with farm animal waste. Officials now concede that for years these industries were loosely regulated. 32
 
A Grim Twist on Gun Deaths
With homicides down sharply, the number of Americans who commit suicide with guns each year now far surpasses those who are killed by others with firearms. 18
 
Quake Hits Southern California
An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.0 struck the Southern California desert, shaking buildings from Los Angeles to Las Vegas, Nev., knocking out electricity and derailing an Amtrak train. No serious injuries or damage were reported. 19
 
Jobs Are Labor's Test for Gore
The nation has lost 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the last 18 months, despite the economic boom, and organized labor's eagerness to see that trend reversed is shaping up asa political test the Vice President. 26
 
Bradley Keeps Poise
At the end of a week in which he lost the endorsement of the powerful A.F.L.-C.I.O. to Vice President Al Gore, former senator Bill Bradley is stubbornly trying to demonstrate that he has not been knocked off his casual style of campaigning. 26
 
Hurricane Kills 5 in Florida
Hurricane Irene pushed its way out of Florida after leaving more than a million people without power and causing at least five deaths. 36
 
NEW YORK/REGION 41-49
 
Senate Race Is Case Study Of Money in Politics
Jon S. Corzine, the retired chief executive of Goldman Sachs, has pledged to use his wealth to win next year's Senate race in New Jersey. Recent political history is full of examples of candidates with more money than sense of how to use it, but Mr. Corzine's journey from political newcomer to a front-runner for the Democratic nomination highlights the power of money in politics and what it takes to use it effectively. 1
 
Subway Museum in Dispute
The City Hall subway station, which has been closed since 1946, is an icon of the city's lost grandeur. The station's owner, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, wants to reclaim it as a branch of the agency's transit museum. But the proposal has engulfed the M.T.A. in a quiet dispute with the station's neighbor, Mayor Giuliani. 41
 
OBITUARIES 50-51
 
Leo Lionni
A book illustrator and author who introduced an introspective sensibility to children's literature, he was 89. 51
 
Jean Shepherd
A radio storyteller on the airwaves of WOR for 21 years, he was 78. 50
 
Chess 49
 
Weather 49
 
Cong.Vote 46 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RADAR SYSTEMS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HURRICANES (86%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); TRENDS (71%); RELIGION (71%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); POWER FAILURES (69%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (69%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); TROPICAL STORMS (64%); ANIMALS (64%); TRAINS (50%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



371 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Reveals Flaws in Farm Law as Animal Waste Threatens N. Carolina Water

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: KENANSVILLE, N.C.

 BODY:
In the aftermath of Hurricane Floyd, loose regulations that helped eastern North Carolina become the nation's biggest producer of turkeys and the second biggest of hogs have come back to haunt the state's public health and its environment.
Officials say that the September storm that hit the region harder than anywhere else, killing 48 people and leaving behind more than $1 billion in largely inescapable damage, also left a vast amount of damage that might have been averted: incalculable and continuing hazards in ground water, wells and rivers from animal waste, mostly from giant hog farms. 
 For years, farmers had been free to build hog and poultry operations as big as they wanted and wherever they liked. They were allowed to dig huge pits for animal waste, without regard to the water table or the health and sensibilities of neighbors.
In the hurricane, feces and urine soaked the terrain and flowed into rivers from the overburdened waste pits the industry calls lagoons. The storm killed more than two million turkeys, chickens and livestock in the region, and waste from the farms is expected to keep leaching into the water supply until next spring.
"We do have a practical problem here," Gov. James B. Hunt Jr. said. Normally by mid-October, Mr. Hunt said, farmers would have reduced the levels of waste in the lagoons, where it evolves naturally into nutrients that are sprayed on crops.
But the lagoons are brimming with flood-bloated waste, and there is less use for it now. The growth of crops slows in the fall, and many fields have been saturated or rendered fallow by the storm.
 On Thursday the State Department of Environment and Natural Resources announced an "emergency waste management strategy" for hog and poultry farms in an effort to keep waste out of the water supply. The agency is allowing farmers to spread waste to more fields, but it prohibited reconstruction of severely hurricane-damaged waste lagoons in the flood plain.
 In the current soaked condition of the land, some waste sprayed on the fields will spread. "We recognize this policy could contribute to water quality problems through the winter," said Bill Holman, the state's assistant secretary for environmental protection. "There are so many swine operations we have a long way to go."
In Duplin County, of which Kenansville is the seat, and across the rest of North Carolina east of Interstate 95, Hurricane Floyd has exposed the hazards of one of farming's great innovations of the 1980's and 1990's and the political liaisons that helped it develop. That is the practice of industrial farming, or raising livestock and poultry in close and confined quarters.
It allows farmers to raise thousands of hogs on land where they could once raise only scores and gives them tight and automated control over their livestocks' diets, health and growth. The farmers raise pigs under contract to major hog processors, known in the business as "integrators," like Murphy Family Farms of Duplin County. The processor supervises the construction of barns, supplies the pigs and their feed and medicine and hauls them off to slaughter after the four or five months it takes for them to grow to 250 pounds.
In eastern North Carolina, this assembly-line production of hogs and turkeys has come as a savior for tobacco farmers whose incomes plunged with the decline in smoking. But Hurricane Floyd has stirred controversy over a means of capturing the wastes of a hog, which produces four times that of a human.
Human waste in North Carolina and most of the nation must be captured in public sewers and private septic systems to prevent the spread of disease. But the state lets the waste of hogs, which carry many human diseases, be captured by nothing more than a cesspool. The poultry waste is far less a problem.
The state had few rules for industrial farming until 1993, when it enacted a law to prohibit livestock farms from intentionally contaminating the public water supply. Then, two years ago, it put a moratorium on hog farms.
In Duplin County, 50 miles south of Raleigh and the home to 42,000 people and 2.2 million hogs, Dr. Hervy Kornegay, a family physician and chairman of the County Board of Health, said no disease attributable to the flooding had developed. But as waste seeps into the private wells that half the homes use for drinking water, Dr. Kornegay said, "the greatest potential for harm would be severe gastroenteritis, with diarrhea and vomiting."
Even before the hurricane there had been flooding and ruptures of the waste pits that contaminated rivers and killed millions of fish. And with public fury rising over the acrid, ammonia-laden odors from the waste lagoons, which carry for more than a mile, Governor Hunt had begun to call for restraints on an industry he had long allowed free rein.
Mr. Hunt, a Democrat, backs the Legislature's 1997 moratorium on construction of new and expanded lagoons, which remains in effect until July 2001. In April, the Governor proposed a plan to phase out the lagoon system over 10 years while engineers devise safer methods for disposing of the hog waste. He also brought a former Sierra Club lobbyist, Mr. Holman, the environmental protection official, into his administration.
"My views and most views have evolved to where we have to take stronger action to clear up our water and rivers," Governor Hunt said. "We need a strong economy for our people, but we cannot sacrifice the environment for jobs."
The industry, whose North Carolina Pork Council vies with tobacco as the state's mightiest lobby, contends that the lagoon system held up well in the storm, that the bacteria in wells might have come not from hogs but from people, factories, flooded water treatment plants or migrating geese. The council said that only 3 of some 4,000 waste lagoons ruptured.
To protect the system, the council sent the state's Congressional delegation in Washington a document, dated Sept. 29 and entitled, "Draft Legislation for Flood Relief for Farmers in Eastern North Carolina." It seeks $1 billion in grants for farmers in 41 counties to repair or replace storm-damaged facilities, including waste lagoons, as they were originally built.
Governor Hunt said of the document, "It's 'stunning and it's wrong."
Beth Anne Mumford, the council's spokeswoman, said the document, disclosed on Oct. 8 by The News and Observer of Raleigh, had been misunderstood. "Its intent was to be sure assistance wasn't prohibited," Ms. Mumford said. "We're not illegal operations, so we shouldn't be punished."
Nowhere is the industry more entrenched, or its political power stronger, or the hurricane's farm damage greater, than in Duplin County. With 48 hogs for every resident, the county has the densest concentration of hogs in the country.
The rectangular lagoons of reddish-brown waste, many of them covering more than an acre, dot the flat countryside. Enclosed within dikes, the lagoons sit behind rows of single-story, gray-metal structures as large as football fields that house the hogs. The hog waste flows through slotted boards in the barns to a cellar, and then is carried by plastic pipes to a waste lagoon. The lagoons now and then burp with the bubbles that mark the natural transformation of feces and urine to the nutrients that farmers spray over pastures and fields of corn, tobacco, soybeans and rye.
In the hurricane, said Rick Shiver, regional supervisor for the State Division of Water Quality, many of the lagoons flooded, and the three that ruptured were in Duplin County.
Two of the ruptured lagoons were on farms under contract to Murphy Family Farms of Rose Hill, on the southern edge of the county.
Wendell Murphy, the company's founder and chief executive and a major contributor to Governor Hunt's campaigns, perfected the current system of raising hogs for producers. It is the major reason the state's hog population has grown to more than nine million from less than three million a decade ago.
Mr. Murphy was a State Senator for 10 years, until 1992, and as a legislator supported measures curbing counties' power to zone out hog farms. Mr. Murphy would not comment for this article, said his spokeswoman, Lois Britt.
Ms. Britt said the company thought that counties should look within for solutions to the environmental issues. "It's easy to look from outside and say what's wrong," she said. She said hog farming provided jobs and tax revenue.
"The hog lagoons," she added, "held up fine."
Clearly, many farmers have mastered the intricate balance of waste production, lagoon levels and spraying. The Division of Water Quality said that it had never recorded a complaint against the hog farm of Tony Jones, 30, of Mount Olive.
Like nearly all hog farmers, Mr. Jones works under contract to a producer. He raises 4,100 pigs in six barns and has two waste lagoons.
He said he constantly tested the lagoon waste. "If it needs lime to keep the odor down," he said, "I add lime. If it needs pumping, I pump on days that are optimum for pumping."
But other farms stir frequent complaints. Becky and Danny Lancaster, who operate a rural welding supply business, live within a mile of three farms they call offensive. Mrs. Lancaster, the mother of two teen-agers, said: "You don't plan birthday parties outside. You no longer plan things. You plan around the odors and flies."
She keeps a log of odors that waft her way. In September, she made entries on six days. "Nasty, musty, stifling odor in the air," she wrote on Sept. 9, a humid and rainy day. "Difficult to breathe. Feel like suffocating. Like an old outhouse." On Sept. 23, she wrote, "Smell of urine strong in air."
For years, said H. C. Powers, a 77-year-old retired school principal and current chairman of the six-member Duplin County Board of Commissioners, residents have been complaining of odors and flies. But three board members always support the industry, so efforts by Mr. Powers and two others to regulate the farms die in 3-to-3 votes.
Still, many people here say more pollution control would only imperil more farmers, who are already struggling. Pork prices have been plunging for more than a year, so much so that Mr. Murphy has agreed to sell out, for $450 million, to Smithfield Farms Inc. of Virginia, the nation's leading slaughterhouse.
The County Manager, James W. Barnhardt Jr., said farms in the county that had $620 million in revenue two years ago were expected to receive $170 million less this year. "We are trying to diversify," Mr. Barnhardt said. "On the other hand, Duplin County is a rural agricultural county. That's what we do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hurricane Floyd killed more than two million turkeys, chickens and livestock in eastern North Carolina, and overflowed animal waste pits. Left (Associated Press), hogs that drowned at Trenton. Tony Jones, above, appeared to have hog waste under control at his farm at in Mount Olive. (Jenny Warburg for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Kenansville, N.C.: Kenansville, N.C., is in a county with 48 hogs for every resident.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE FLOYD; LIVESTOCK; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY HURRICANES (92%); RIVERS (90%); TURKEY PRODUCTION (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); POULTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WEATHER (78%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



372 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Protest on Canvas

BYLINE: By John Beardsley; John Beardsley, the author of "Gardens of Revelation: Environments by Visionary Artists," teaches at the Harvard Graduate School of Design.

 BODY:

ROBERT GWATHMEY
 The Life and Art of a Passionate Observer.
 By Michael Kammen.
 Illustrated. 240 pp. Chapel Hill:
 University of North Carolina Press.
 Cloth, $49.95. Paper, $24.95. 
 What are we to make of Robert Gwathmey, the artist and the man? The man who emerges from Michael Kammen's gracious biography is deeply engaging and admirable. He had his faults, from which Kammen doesn't shrink. But he is remembered as the first white artist to paint Southern blacks in a dignified and empathetic way even as he waged a life-long crusade against racial bigotry, social pretension and economic exploitation of the working poor. Against a life of such conviction, how are we to take the measure of his art?
A Virginian by birth who moved to New York to paint, Gwathmey found his artistic footing in the late 1930's with representations of rural life in the South -- even then receding into memory as blacks migrated to the North. His satires of Southern demagogues and idle aristocrats and his compassionate portrayals of black sharecroppers and laborers won him a devoted following in Northern progressive circles; they also won him the enmity of many of his Southern white compatriots and eventually the Government. Gwathmey was kept under surveillance by the F.B.I. for 27 years beginning in 1942, initially for such subversive activities as giving speeches at the Artists' Club in New York on "the rights of the Negroes," later for membership in various left-wing humanitarian, labor and civil liberties organizations. Although no longer deemed a security risk after 1969, he remained politically active. In the early 70's, he was the defendant in a First Amendment case that resulted in a Supreme Court decision overturning a New York State law banning defacement of the American flag.
Although Gwathmey enjoyed the support and friendship of artists like Paul Robeson and Jacob Lawrence, he came under fire from black civil rights leaders in the 70's. Kammen tells the story of a mural Gwathmey painted in 1939-41 for the Post Office in Eutaw, Ala. Depicting blacks and whites hoeing corn, picking cotton and stacking lumber, it was installed over the objections of local white officials who would have preferred something commemorating the Confederacy. Years later, it was denounced by a black judge and a leader in the local chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "dehumanizing" and "offensive" to African-Americans, although its focus was class as much as race: it shows blacks and whites laboring equally at the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder. A subsequent report on the mural, commissioned by the Postal Service from the Birmingham Museum of Art, recommended that the mural not be removed; ironically, the report identified the artist as "a black" from Richmond.
Kammen, a social historian, is most effective at positioning Gwathmey in his cultural frame: among Southern writers like James Agee, Erskine Caldwell and Lillian Smith, who were equally critical of their home turf; fellow Social Realists like Philip Evergood and Jack Levine; and the documentary photographers Walker Evans and Margaret Bourke-White. He establishes artistic connections between Gwathmey and the French realists Jean-Francois Millet and Honore Daumier. But Gwathmey's crucial inspirations were closer at hand. One of the pleasant surprises of the book is its brief glimpse into the work of his wife, Rosalie, who made a series of documentary photographs in the 40's of African-American communities in North Carolina, where the Gwathmeys spent their summers, that resemble his work in subject matter and composition. She too felt the chill of McCarthyism: active in the Photo League, a New York organization dedicated to photography that would reveal social conditions and promote political change, she abandoned her art in 1951 when the league disbanded under pressure from the F.B.I.
Kammen is less persuasive in evaluating Gwathmey's art, preferring, for example, to speak of the paintings of the 40's and early 50's as his "best-known" rather than simply his best art, which they assuredly are. In Gwathmey's most successful paintings -- among them "Tobacco" (1947) and "Saturday Afternoon" (1949) -- composition and narrative content are mutually reinforcing. Architectural settings dramatically compress the space, while patterns in clothing and advertising signs vigorously animate the surface. Despite Kammen's evenhanded treatment of the later work, it gets less interesting in structure and content as it becomes more formulaic and anecdotal. In fairness to Gwathmey, surveillance has a repressive effect; Kammen also shows he was disheartened by the waning audience for his socially engaged realism as critics, museums and the public embraced Abstract Expressionism as the reigning national style.
Gwathmey's relationship to Lawrence is instructive. They were friends from the late 40's, and Gwathmey persuaded Lawrence in 1962 to be represented by his dealer, Terry Dintenfass. Kammen says Gwathmey enjoyed being called the "white Jacob Lawrence," and there are similarities in their work: flat areas of color and shallow picture space that recall idioms of folk painting. But there are illuminating differences, too. Lawrence had an epic ambition that led to extended suites of paintings such the 60-panel series "The Migration of the Negro." The same level of ambition isn't in evidence in Gwathmey. If he wasn't quite "sui generis among the artists of his time," as Kammen claims, "a man with a singular vision combining content and style whose compositions compel immediate recognition because of their originality and freshness," neither was his talent inconsiderable. His work warrants critical reappraisal.
In the catalogue of a 1946 exhibition of Gwathmey's work in New York, Paul Robeson wrote, "In the coming years, when as we all hope, true equality and the brotherhood of man will be a reality, Gwathmey's paintings will have earned him the right to feel that he has shared in the shaping of a better world." The impact of art on social transformations is difficult to measure: the very notion might be one of the soothing fictions of a less cynical era. It isn't even clear that Gwathmey felt he was persuading anyone: Kammen notes that he frequently insisted he was an "observer," not a "moralist." Yet he saw what his times demanded and painted his convictions, creating an exemplary life and art worth remembering. For that alone we can say Gwathmey shared in the shaping of a better world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); LITERATURE (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); POSTAL SERVICE (61%); HISTORY (60%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: BEARDSLEY, JOHN; GWATHMEY, ROBERT; KAMMEN, MICHAEL ROBERT GWATHMEY (98%); MICHAEL KAMMEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



373 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Bowling With Others

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe is director of the Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College.

 BODY:

THE LADD REPORT
 By Everett Carll Ladd.
 210 pp. New York:
 The Free Press. $25. 
 WHEN the political scientist Robert Putnam discovered that Americans no longer joined civic associations the way they once did, he no doubt thought he had produced an interesting finding. Instead, the reaction to his 1995 essay, "Bowling Alone," generally considered the most widely discussed social science journal article of our time, was quasi-religious in nature, as if a nation of egoists, unlike a nation of joiners, was unworthy of God's special dispensation.
Everett Carll Ladd, director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research, was an early and persistent skeptic. In "The Ladd Report," he assembles all the data he can find to demonstrate exactly how wrong Putnam was.
Some civic and fraternal organizations, like the Lions Clubs or Shriners, have lost members over the past few decades, Ladd writes, but this is only natural; we hardly think it a crisis if the Anti-Saloon League, which once engaged the attention of millions, is no longer able to display long membership lists. But others have expanded rapidly, especially environmental organizations, church groups and, to compensate for any declining interest in bowling, soccer leagues. Nor is it correct to say that the groups that are growing, in contrast to those in decline, are mailing-list organizations that demand little of their members. Actually, Ladd points out, unions, the virtual disappearance of which pushes the panic buttons of those concerned with America's civic health, actively discouraged popular participation, while groups like the Audubon Society have local chapters and encourage local involvement.
Illustrative of Ladd's approach is the question of "schooling alone." The National Congress of Parents and Teachers has reported a sharp drop in P.T.A. memberships, causing great consternation among the civic-minded. But many parents became persuaded that P.T.A.'s represented the interests of teachers, not themselves. All across the country, parents have been dropping out and forming independent parent-teacher organizations, convinced that their dues ought to support local activities, not a top-heavy national organization. Ladd estimates that only one-quarter of American schools are P.T.A.-affiliated these days. Ask teachers and they would probably tell you that parents are, if anything, too involved.
Finally, according to Ladd, the "third sector" -- an insider's term for volunteering and charity -- is not in any state of crisis. Surveys reveal that the number of Americans who say they give their time to voluntary activities has gone up, not down. Charitable donations have also increased. Younger people volunteer less and give less than their elders do, but that has always been true and merely represents a stage in the life cycle, not any kind of permanent shift in values.
Robert Putnam believes that America's "social capital" -- those intangibles of trust and participation that make society work -- is in serious danger of depletion. His thesis, Ladd writes, served the interests of both liberals and conservatives. Liberals could argue that in the absence of strong social ties, government intervention was necessary; while to conservatives, declining social capital underscored the need to emphasize communal and voluntary alternatives to the state. If, as Ladd claims, the empirical evidence cannot sustain the notion that something is wrong in civic America, then we can stop engaging in "insipid nostalgia" and adopt concepts of citizenship obligations in line with historic patterns of American individualism.
Ladd's book is a welcome corrective to any hysteria about the state of civic America left over from the publication of "Bowling Alone." Surely by now we ought to recognize that social capital is not like rain, something we can measure one day to see how it compares to another. The most interesting changes in civic life are qualitative, not quantitative. We want to know how Americans practice the arts of association, not whether they do so in the same way their grandparents did.
Yet while Ladd offers an effective rebuttal to the nostalgia buffs, his insistence that everything is fine is little different from the argument that everything is worse. For if the prophets of social decline can rightly be faulted for spinning the data one way, Ladd all too often spins it the other way. Take trust in government. One of the strongest bits of data confirming Putnam's alarmism is the sharp decline in public trust in government since the 1970's. Can a democracy be considered healthy if ever-increasing numbers of its citizens do not vote and tell pollsters that they have little if any confidence in their leaders? When Ladd considers this question, he seems more concerned with demolishing Putnam's claims than with establishing what is true. Yes, in the 1970's Americans lost confidence in their leaders, he argues, but who wouldn't in the midst of rapid inflation, petroleum shortages and hostage takings? If they dislike government, moreover, Americans have great faith in their society -- and in one another. True, voting turnout for President declined from 62.8 percent in 1960 to 49 percent in 1996, but many absentee voters are never counted and there are a lot more felons who are ineligible to vote. We are simply a people that has always been skeptical of government, Ladd concludes, seeming to forget that Americans also gave their support to the New Deal and to the military establishment.
Had he written a more balanced book, Ladd would have written a more persuasive book. Perhaps his insensitivity to very real declines in public trust of politics led him to underemphasize the importance of trust in social science findings. For if the reader comes to suspect his interpretations where they seem forced, doubt is inevitably cast on his data even when they seem strong. Most, but not all of it, supports Ladd's point of view, which means that he need not have feared that in giving in to any of Putnam's claims he would be giving in to all of them.
Like any good work of social science, Robert Putnam's data and interpretations will be challenged by others. "The Ladd Report" makes it clear that Putnam's thesis requires substantial modification at the very least. But "Bowling Alone" could never have generated the passionate responses it did had it not spoken to something in the atmosphere. Social science can answer many questions, but it cannot peer into the nation's soul. Whether America's social capital has declined, increased or merely changed its form is a debate that ought to continue, and, despite the publication of "The Ladd Report," one senses that it will. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LADD REPORT, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); PARENTS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); CHARITIES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); SOCCER (67%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN; LADD, EVERETT CARLL ROBERT PUTNAM (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



374 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction;
Perils of the Poppy

BYLINE: By Carolyn T. Hughes 

 BODY:
"Farewell to smiles and laughter, farewell to peace of mind! Farewell to hope and to tranquil dreams, and the blessed consolations of sleep!" So Thomas De Quincey wrote in "Confessions of an English Opium-Eater" in 1822. He was among the first of many writers, artists and musicians who found themselves addicted to opium. In OPIUM: A Portrait of the Heavenly Demon (Chronicle, $22.95), Barbara Hodgson chronicles the effects the narcotic had, both positive and negative, on many of the artistic lights of the 19th century. She also analyzes the drug's effect on the general population of China, India, Britain, France and the United States. In fact, the economies of both Britain and France were so dependent on the opium trade that when China tried to stop it, the European powers made war in 1839 and again in 1856. Hodgson, the author and designer of two illustrated novels, "The Sensualist" and "The Tattooed Map," intersperses photographs and woodcuts of addicts in opium dens throughout the book. She also includes movie stills and reproductions of the covers from magazines and books to highlight the strange fascination opium has exerted on our culture. Of special note is the cover of a 1958 edition of Claude Farr<heart>re's 1904 novel "Black Opium"; it features a naked, voluptuous blonde rising out of the smoke of an opium pipe. The image is both absurd and sad, for opium use decreases the sex drive. But then again, as Hodgson notes in her insightful book, the pull of the drug is anything but logical. Carolyn T. Hughes
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A family destroyed by opium in the 1916 movie "The Dividend." (BFI Stills, Posters and Designs/from "Opium")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: OPIUM: A PORTRAIT OF THE HEAVENLY DEMON (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); FRANCE (87%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); FRANCE (87%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS OPIUM (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); 

PERSON: HUGHES, CAROLYN T; HODGSON, BARBARA BARBARA HODGSON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



375 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 41; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Time Off to Dive Into Reality Rather Than Retreat From It

BYLINE: By ANN WILSON LLOYD; Ann Wilson Lloyd's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the painter Layla Ali.

 BODY:
IN a late 20th-century version of J. M. W. Turner's search for the untrammeled landscape, a small band of contemporary artists is spending this month trekking in the Himalayas, seeking fresh vision as well as fresh scenery.
In Salvador, Brazil, artists are working with street children to bring them back into society. In Kansas City, Mo., artists have set up shop in a converted downtown garage, while in San Antonio, a former automobile showroom functions as a high-tech studio. 
 All are new versions of the artist residency program in which, traditionally, artists retreat for sabbaticals in bucolic, cloistered settings like Yaddo or the MacDowell Colony. Now artists may convene in gritty urban environments, participate in group living experiments or join far-flung adventures resembling Outward Bound.
The Himalayan trek, for example, initiated by the Kiasma Museum of Contemporary Art in Helsinki, Finland, is theoretically about perception and how new experience retools its formation, according to Maaretta Jaukkuri, the museum's chief curator. Artists may work while walking, or during a monthlong residency at the museum next spring. An exhibition will be held in the summer of 2000.
Liisa Roberts, a trekker and New York-based artist who is half Finnish, said before leaving that combining nature, art and expeditions is not so strange in Finland. Jussi Heikkila, a Finnish artist who has previously used mountain hiking in his work, came up with the idea. Ms. Roberts was excited but a little nervous. "I am not much of an outdoor person," she said.
Xu Bing, a Chinese artist living in New York and another trekker, may be more prepared, at least ideologically. The trip echoes his student days in China during the cultural revolution, when he was sent to live with farmers. Long conditioning marches were also prescribed. "This project is an avant-garde idea in Western contemporary art," he said, "but it's something they were doing 20 years ago in China. The project addresses a lot of problems in contemporary art, where things are missing between the artist and the audience. A more social-minded approach is needed."
Perhaps a response to withdrawal of funds by the National Endowment for the Arts, these new-style artists' residencies are cropping up everywhere, said Tricia Snell, executive director of the Alliance of Artist Communities. The alliance, which started in 1990, has a membership of 60 nonprofit programs, but there are close to 80 in the field at large. "Twelve have recently opened, 11 more are in planning stages, 40 or 50 people have contacted us about startups," Ms. Snell said. "Here is a grassroots movement much as there was in the 1960's.
ArtPace, the new program in San Antonio, is where Ms. Roberts was contacted to discuss the Himalayan trek. ArtPace was founded in 1993 by Linda Pace, a San Antonio artist, benefactor and collector, whose father developed Pace Picante Sauce. ArtPace residencies, awarded by nomination, are considered the cream. A local-global mix of residents is chosen by a panel of international art professionals or a curator. This year, Okwui Enwezor, director of the next Documenta, tapped Ms. Roberts, Chris Sauter from Texas and Oladl Ajiboy Bamgboy from London. Artists live and work for two months in a sleek new facility carved from a vintage car showroom, are given private apartment and studio space, technical support and facilities, a $500 weekly stipend and an $8,000 budget for supplies. Exhibitions cap the residency.
ArtPace prides itself on underwriting costly new works. "The demise of N.E.A. grants to individual artists and the aftermath of the early 90's economy diminished opportunities for artists to make significant, expensive works," says Ms. Pace. It was here that in 1997 Cornelia Parker, a British artist, made "Mass (Colder Darker Matter)," an installation of charred remains from a burned Texas church that was later exhibited in the Turner Prize show at the Tate Gallery in London. Consequently, San Antonio has become a preview site for the art world, staff members claim.
In a collaborative first, Isaac Julien, a British filmmaker, is splitting his residency this fall between ArtPace and a somewhat similar program, Grand Arts, in Kansas City. It, too, is financed by a private foundation established by Margaret Hall Silva, a member of the Hall family of Hallmark Cards. Ms. Silva is also an artist, though like Ms. Pace, she has found her program eclipsing personal artmaking. Grand Arts is in a former garage in downtown Kansas City that has also undergone an upscale architectural makeover, setting it apart from nearby pawn shops and parking lots.
Grand Arts is slightly smaller in scope and more fluid than ArtPace. "We have no program the artist has to plug into, Ms. Silva said. "Each residency is individual." The stipend and budget are customized. Recently Jim Leedy, a local atist, used Grand Arts state-of-the-art sculpture studio to prepare a large installation. Meanwhile, the staff was also mapping logistics for Mr. Julien's film project and a project with the New York artist Dennis Oppenheimer.
Grand Arts residents come from solicited applications, with final selection made by a revolving panel of national arts professionals. The center offers, in addition to the sculpture studio, an elegant on-site apartment and two galleries. As at ArtPace, Grand Arts' staff says art-world traffic has enlivened the scene in Kansas City.
Evolving from sources exactly opposite from Grand Arts and ArtPace, the new Tryon Center for Visual Art, in Charlotte, N.C., may be the first residency program to be generated by civic leaders rather than art professionals. Opening its doors last month with six artists ranging from local to international, the Tryon Center has a $7 million endowment given by the Bank of America, which has its headquarters in Charlotte. Tryon Center was initiated by Hugh McColl, the C.E.O. of Bank of America who has been behind much of the rebirth of downtown Charlotte. But the new arts center is not necessarily an urban renewal project, says Barbara Spradling, chairman of the Tryon board and a Bank of America senior vice president. "Culture and visual arts are what make cities great," she said. "We would like more artists to live here, to help build audience and collectors, and to fill a gap in Charlotte."
Tryon Center also filled a gap in the urban landscape -- a burned-out shell of a neo-Gothic church just blocks from the bank's downtown corporate tower. The spectacular renovation created 15 spacious studios (almost too handsome for messy art making), lavishly equipped workshops and high-tech labs for everything from digital media to printmaking. Such grand scale corporate largesse stems partly from the fact that Mr. McColl's mother was a painter. "I like art and want to support artists," he explained. "I thought of painters living on the south side of the rebuilt church and painting in north-facing studios, so it's not exactly as I envisioned it. But my philosophy is to do something and then be happy with it. And part of the deal is that artists will give back in some way."
Tryon's residents are chosen half by nomination and half by the staff. Residencies are for three months and artists receive housing, studios, up to $2,500 for materials plus a monthly stipend of $1,500 to $4,000. In return, community involvement is strongly encouraged.
By contrast, everyday life is the leitmotif of the Quiet in the Land, a series of ad hoc residency projects created by France Morin, an independent curator. The first, in 1996 at the Sabbathday Lake, Me., Shaker colony, included 10 artists she personally selected. Now Ms. Morin is in Salvador, Brazil, overseeing the last of 16 staggered residencies in her second project.
In Salvador, completely removed from the typical pampered residency and from the art world, artistswork with Projeto Axe, a philanthropic organization that uses the arts to seduce street children back into society. "By sharing powerful histories, first the Shakers and now children of Axe help artists re-examine relationships of life and work to the world beyond the narrow confines of the art world," Ms. Morin says. "I cannot say all the artists have had the same level of experience, but most of them are leaving troubled and rethinking these relationships."
NARI WARD, who has participated in both Ms. Morin's projects, found Brazil incredibly challenging. "I think artists came on board thinking they were tired of the old model residency, to flex themselves a little more," he said. "The Shaker project was a personal introspection. Brazil is much more a social project, but both had the same premise -- to take everyday situations and regard them the way you would art in a museum or gallery. It has intensified my desire to work more with communities."
Not everyone was completely comfortable with the Salvadoran experience. Kara Walker, who worked with teen-age girls, cited frustrations with language barriers as well as living close together in one house with other participants. She recalls vigorous discussions about why they were there; whether they were artists or missionaries. "I wasn't really sure what we were working toward," she said, "but there were moments when something a little bit magical would happen."
The art generated from her collaboration with the young women had a little bit of a high school feel to it, Ms. Walker said (which may be one reason Ms. Morin and the artists decided not to show the project's exhibition outside of Salvador as originally planned). Ms. Walker, who spent four weeks in Salvador, added, "It affected my real life more than my working life; it made me question all that I do."
These projects stem from Ms. Morin's general dissatisfaction with the gallery and museum circuit (she was formerly the head curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York) and her desire to work in more intuitive and personal ways. Two more phases, one at the Parrish Museum on Long Island and another long-term project in Southeast Asia, for which the artist Chen Zhen is teaching himself to become a Chinese doctor, are planned.
Regardless of their quixotic nature, Ms. Morin is passionate about their necessity. "I know these projects are like throwing pebbles in the water," she said. "But they have an amazing capacity to ripple outward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above left, the artist Chen Zhen (rear) of the Quiet in the Land residency project uses the arts to try to lure children back into society in Salvador, Brazil. Above, a studio at the Tryon Center for Visual Art in Charlotte, N.C. The program was created by civic leaders rather than arts professionals. (Chuck Choi); (France Morin)(pg. 43); The installation "Graft" by Chris Sauter, a Texas artist selected for an ArtPace residency. (Ansen Seale/ArtPace, San Antonio)(pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); CHINA (90%); FINLAND (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); HIMALAYAS (94%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: ARTPLACE (SAN ANTONIO, TEX) OUTWARD BOUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTPLACE (SAN ANTONIO, TEX) OUTWARD BOUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); CHINA (90%); FINLAND (90%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HIMALAYAS (94%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: ART ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (94%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HIKING (90%); ENDOWMENTS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CHILDREN (57%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, ANN WILSON MARGARET HALL SILVA (67%); LIISA ROBERTS (67%); PACE PICANTE SAUCE (63%); TURNER PRIZE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



376 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: The View From/White Plains;
Head of Arts Council Mixes Art and Money on Her Palette

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
IN the nine years since she has been executive director of the Westchester Arts Council, Janet T. Langsam has become known as someone not averse to mixing art and business. Now she is bringing that blend of money savvy and interest in esthetics to the forefront in the annual gala entitled, appropriately, "Monopoly."
The party is being held Nov. 13 at 360 Hamilton Avenue in a building recently renovated by Reckson Associates Realty Corporation of Tarrytown. The 380,000-square-foot, 12-story structure, Ms. Langsam says, is emblematic of the monopoly-like renaissance of buying and selling in downtown White Plains. Empty since 1988, it is being readied by Reckson for December occupancy by a variety of tenants in financial, technological and other fields. Its granite, marble and glass exterior and opulent cherrywood lobby will be a perfect setting, she said, for a benefit that focuses on the interplay of the corporate and arts worlds. 
 "It is not only a local, but a national, trend to use the arts to leverage the revitalization of downtown areas of cities," Ms. Langsam said.
Salvatore Campofranco, managing director of Reckson, added: "The arts attract people, and that's an economic as well as a cultural issue. Historically, cities tend to go from being manufacturing centers to business centers to residential areas. People who live or work in a city want theater, music, museums. Then new smaller businesses -- restaurants, antique shops -- sprout up."
As for 360 Hamilton Avenue, he explained that Reckson bought it in 1996 "just before the White Plains market had started to recover." When it opens, he said, it will "be occupied by Class A tenants." He added that the corporate downsizing trend of the early and mid-90's has been reversed and that most corporations are in a "growth mode." White Plains, with its central location, relative proximity to Manhattan and upscale shops in The Westchester, has a growing profile, he said. Major developers have bought buildings in the downtown area; when that happens, small businesses -- the mom and pop delis, candy stores, jewelry shops that have floundered in recent years -- should be able to stage a comeback.
The party itself will reflect the Monopoly theme. Ms. Langsam expects 700 "of the council's closest friends." (Tickets are $350 a person. The number to call for reservations is 428-4220.) The guests will sit at tables covered with cloths imprinted with Monopoly boards, and they will dine on hors d'oeuvres donated by Abigail Kirsch, appetizers contributed by Crowne Plaza and filet mignon given by Doral Arrowwood. Desserts, which will also be donated, will probably be pastries or servings of ice cream shaped like skyscrapers. On a recent afternoon, Ms. Langsam made a telephone call to Ann Tucker, whose event management company of the same name is planning the gala. "Ann," she said into the phone, "what do you have as dessert -- let's see, can we do buildings, what do you think?"
This wheeling and dealing style even in matters as simple as dessert is typical of Ms. Langsam. She has a New York City background -- she was the city's Deputy Commissioner of Cultural Affairs from 1976 through 1980 -- and she considers herself a pragmatist. As much as she loves the arts, she knows that artists themselves are not always so adroit at making and managing the money they need in order to thrive, work and show or produce the results of their work. She is more than happy to go to bat for them, in an official or unofficial capacity.
"There's a lot of schmoozing, a lot of networking, that goes on at our annual benefit," she said. "It has always been that way."
In fact, the biggest deal of the council's existence was consummated at last year's big party, a 700-person affair at the County Center. It was then that several people formalized the negotiations that enabled the council to move in June to its new headquarters at 31 Mamaroneck Avenue here.
"The negotiations for the building were completed over a glass of wine at 11 P.M.," recalled Joseph P. Carlucci, who overheard the conversation. Mr. Carlucci is managing partner in Cuddy & Feder & Worby, a White Plains-based law firm, which is one of the sponsors of this year's gala.
"We got together over some cigars and a good cabernet," Ms. Langsam added. "At the end of the conversation, I looked around and said, 'I think we just made ourselves a deal.' "
The building, which was owned by Chase Manhattan Bank, was built in 1928 in quasi-Colonial style with brass doors and stone scrolls. It is eight stories high and contains 55,000 square feet. It was sold to the council for $1.35 million by the bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the council will not pay interest or principal on the mortgage for five years, while the group seeks financing.
The building needs work, but Ms. Langsam said she hopes eventually to be able to rent studios, workshops and offices to artists and arts-related businesses, as well as set up rehearsal space, exhibition rooms and areas for poetry readings and performances by individual artists and members of the 100 organizations affiliated with the council. Renovation and construction is proceeding with a state grant of $550,000 as well as a $150,000 loan from Chase Manhattan and money raised by the council's capital campaign.
The $500,000 the organization wants to net at the Monopoly gala will go toward other council programs, including education, grants for artists and organizations and publications. Ms. Langsam said that not only will money be raised through ticket sales and an elaborate silent auction but also that good will and connections generated by the event will help the council in the future. "We like to involve as many people as possible in our work," she said. "The full title of our benefit is 'Monopoly . . . Be a Player.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Janet T. Langsam outside Westchester Arts Council building with board members, Andrew G. Robel and Joseph P. Carlucci, right. Reckson workers remodeling building in White Plains before Arts Council party. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL; RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP SL GREEN REALTY CORP (72%); WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL; RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART REAL ESTATE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAILERS (75%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (72%); TRENDS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (64%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (64%); 

PERSON: LANGSAM, JANET T; AMES, LYNNE JANET T LANGSAM (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



377 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: LIPA Accused of Hiding Surcharge for Debt

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
TAKING a new tack in their running feud with the Long Island Power Authority, officials in Suffolk County have accused the agency of secretly collecting a 5.1 percent surcharge from all customers to amass $1.3 billion over 10 years for early retirement of debt on the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant, and of trying to mask the surcharge with new, higher-interest borrowing.
The authority chairman, Richard M. Kessel, said there was no surcharge and challenged officials to prove its existence. He said the authority would retire 30-year bonds reflecting Shoreham debt in approximately 16 years, saving customers over $2 billion in interest payments. 
 County officials said early retirement of the bonds made no economic sense because it substituted higher-interest new debt for lower-interest existing debt and appeared to be designed to benefit bondholders, not electric customers.
The dispute between the county and LIPA has its roots in a New York state court judgment, won in 1996 by the Long Island Lighting Company, that local governments in Suffolk County had substantially overassessed the Shoreham plant. That judgment, which is now worth over $1 billion, was acquired in 1998 by LIPA when it purchased Lilco's transmission and distribution systems. In July, a state appeals court upheld LIPA's right to enforce the judgment.
LIPA has offered to settle the case for $625 million, through higher electric rates already being paid by Suffolk residents, but has set a Monday deadline for the county to accept its offer. That $625 million was also part of Governor Pataki's plan for a partial state takeover of Lilco. The Suffolk Legislature never agreed to the plan and is seeking to appeal the court ruling.
The counsel to the Suffolk legislature, Paul Sabatino, said he believed that the authority's insistence on collecting the $625 million reflected its need to conceal the 5.1 percent surcharge.
"They have to get that dollar amount because that's the money they need to hide the surcharge," Mr. Sabatino said. He said this explained why the authority had been unwilling to settle the tax case for less.
Mr. Kessel said the authority has tried repeatedly to settle with the county, without success.
County officials said the surcharge would be hidden by the new debt LIPA was taking on, in the amount of $320 million. That debt, county officials said, would be repaid by electric customers in Suffolk County, who pay rates 2.3 percent higher than those in Nassau County.
"It's just a debt shift with no apparent economic benefit for ratepayers," said George O. Guldi, a Democrat from Westhampton Beach and chairman of the legislature's energy and environment committee. "And it creates a mechanism for transferring enormous amounts of money from ratepayers to bond holders."
Suffolk officials said bond holders who would benefit from early retirement of the Shoreham debt made possible by the hidden surcharge were those who purchased 30-year tax-exempt bonds that would now be retired in approximately 16 years.
They said the bond holders would be paid premiums for early retirement and would also have earned higher interest rates for 16 years than they would have earned on bonds with 16-year maturity dates.
Mr. Guldi said he has asked the authority for the names of bond holders to determine whether "selected investors are going to get windfall rates of return."
Frederick B. Pollert, director of the county legislature's budget review office, dismissed LIPA public statements that early retirement of Shoreham-related debt was possible because of lower than projected interest rates on the $6.7 billion in bonds the authority has sold to date.
"That is not the case," he said, because interest savings totaled only $78.8 million, or only a fraction of the $1.3 billion the authority was creating with the 5.1 percent surcharge.
"The bottom line is that even before the interest rates were established by the first bond issue, LIPA knew they were going to charge rates in excess of what they would need to meet expenses and would use the excess revenues to repay Shoreham debt in the 16th year."
Mr. Pollert said the plan to retire the bonds early using cash was contrary to the more common method of retiring higher-interest bonds by refinancing with lower-interest bonds and covering refinancing costs with the interest savings.
He said the authority's plan in effect replaced lower-interest, long-term bonds with higher-interest bonds.
The officials said LIPA could have realized huge savings by initially issuing 15-year rather than 30-year bonds.
Mr. Kessel said the officials' analysis was inaccurate. He said the authority agreed upon early retirement of the Shoreham debt only after initial bonds were sold at favorable interest rates.
"We expected interest rates of 7 percent and we got rates as low as 4.9 percent," Mr. Kessel said. He said the lower-than-expected cost of financing allowed the authority to increase average rate cuts from 17 percent to 20 percent and to set aside remaining amounts to retire Shoreham debt early.
"We probably could have lowered rates an extra 5 percent last year, but we instead used a lot of the extra money that we got from the lower interest rates to accelerate the payment of the Shoreham debt," Mr. Kessel said.
"People are getting the benefits of rate reductions right now," he said, "and this means their children and grandchildren will benefit in the future because they won't have to pay for this ridiculous Shoreham debt."
Mr. Kessel said early retirement of plant debt should have pleased critics of the takeover plan who had complained about the large amount of longterm debt it entailed.
"You can't have it both ways," he said.
Mr. Kessel said the authority would postpone plans to issue new debt backed by Suffolk rates until the Shoreham tax assessment issues were resolved.
In an important part of the Pataki plan, LIPA refinanced $4.2 billion in Shoreham plant-related debt at lower interest, accounting for a large share of the average 20 percent rate reductions for Long Island electric customers.
The authority bonds were heavily oversubscribed, meaning there were more interested buyers than available bonds. Mr. Guldi said the strong interest raised questions about whether investors were aware of potential windfalls.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Suffolk County officials are making new accusations in their feud with the Long Island Power Authority about debt on the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; CREDIT NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UTILITY RATES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); APPEALS (65%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN RICHARD M KESSEL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



378 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Restoring the Panache to a Bronx Movie Palace

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
THE Loew's Paradise theater in the Bronx has been closed for five years, but its seedy appearance will not blemish its stature in the sentimental recollections of Bronx natives of all ages. Many of them attended their high school graduation exercises there, or smooched as teen-agers while watching movies under its starry artificial sky.
The sky and its wafting clouds are coming back, but not the movies. 
 Richard P. DeCesare, a longtime real-estate investor and more recently a boxing promoter as well, took one look at the Paradise and its vacant interior a year ago and decided it would be the perfect spot for musical events geared to a Latin American audience, and for midweek boxing and wrestling events.
He has backed this vision with a construction project that will restore much of the theater's baroque interior. It is one of the rare cases in which a concept for a new use for an obsolete movie palace has emerged that is both compatible with the configuration and decor of the original interior space and at the same time is sufficiently promising economically to encourage a high-cost restoration.
"I had been looking for a venue for boxing promotions," said Mr. DeCesare, 51, who has formed a company called Paradise Promotions and was interviewed at his office on McLean Avenue in Yonkers. "In New York City you have Madison Square Garden for large promotions, but there's no longer any medium-sized venue." A boxer himself in his youth, he became a promoter two years ago and now has three fighters in his stable, including the heavyweight Alex Garcia of the Bronx (40 wins, 5 losses, 1 draw).
Mr. DeCesare signed a 10-year lease last April, entranced by the possibilities of a hall that seats 4,000 people in a central location -- on the Grand Concourse just south of 188th Street, near Fordham Road -- and is surrounded by one of the city's great concentrations of Hispanic-Americans.
The reconstruction will restore the grand staircase, ornate fountain, chandeliers and statuary that early patrons may fondly, if vaguely, recall. Fabrics, rugs and paint will all be consistent with the original. Above all, the two smaller movie theaters into which the auditorium had been divided have been demolished and the Paradise will once again offer a single performance space.
The Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the exterior of the building as a landmark two years ago, but the interior was never landmarked, although the hope has long been that a lessee or owner would be found who would consider restoration an asset in its reuse.
"We were thrilled when Mr. DeCesare came on the scene," said Jennifer Raab, chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission. "He's changing the theater into an entertainment palace for the new century."
Mr. DeCesare hired the Yonkers architectural firm of Lawless & Mangione, which specializes in restorations, and Higgins & Quasebarth, a Manhattan preservation consultant, and they have worked closely with the Landmarks Preservation Commission. The exterior will be restored to its original design, with electronic signs on the marquee and the roof of the building. The style of the signage and the facade renovations have been approved by the Landmarks Commission.
Paradise Promotions will offer boxing on Thursday nights, with Joe DeGuardia as the co-promoter, and wrestling on Monday nights, Mr. DeCesare said.
The main focus will be concerts of popular music, on Friday and Saturday nights and Sunday afternoons. The reopening is scheduled for March.
"We'll have the top names in the music business," Mr. DeCesare said. "There are 30 or 40 Latin groups that have the capacity to sell out the house." The average ticket price will be $50.
The restoration is an $8 million undertaking, about half completed, said Mr. DeCesare, who also has an option to buy the building. The Scarsdale firm of Houlihan-Parnes Realtors is arranging financing.
THE Loew's Paradise has run a circuitous route to get to this point. Its guide has been a seven-year-old asset manager and property owner, Emmes & Company, of Manhattan. In the early 90's, when established real-estate companies were buying large pools of nonperforming or poorly performing real-estate assets from the Resolution Trust Corporation, new partnerships were being formed by individuals with real-estate backgrounds to handle smaller pools of assets.
Emmes was one of them. Its current partners are Andrew Davidoff, Gary Tischler, S. Lawrence Davis and Mark Chertok, joined last year by Northstar Capital Investment Corporation of Manhattan. In 1992 an investment group led by Emmes bought from the R.T.C. a package of 78 nonperforming mortgages that had been in the portfolio of the Ensign Savings Bank. One of the mortgages was on the Loew's Paradise, which was owned by a partnership managed by the Kushner Companies, of Florham Park, N.J. Kushner's main tenant was the Sony Corporation affiliate that bought many of the old Loew's theaters in the 80's.
Mr. Davidoff, the managing partner of Emmes, said that his expectation had been that a restructured mortgage would be negotiated with Kushner. But it turned out that Sony was buying out of its lease from Kushner before it expired, prompting Kushner to assign the ownership interest to Emmes.
So Emmes hired a Yonkers-based firm, H. S. C. Management Corporation, headed by Howard S. Cohen, to manage the property, and proceeded to open conversations with the city's governmental and nongovermental organizations involved with preserving notable structures, trying to figure out how to adapt the building to an economic use.
"We could have walked away, and just written off the building as obsolete," Mr. Davidoff said. "But we got a tremendous sense that this building was a part of Bronx history, almost like Yankee Stadium." Studies were made by the architectural firm of Beyer Blinder Belle, and Emmes thought its best chance was to find a retail user for the interior space, which would have meant sheetrocking over the plaster detailing pending a possible future, and more appropriate, use. The Landmarks Commission seemed reluctantly willing to support this solution if no other was available. Then Mr. DeCesare came along.
The Paradise is not the only Bronx property that Emmes has found itself nursing back to financial and operational stability. It also acquired title to an apartment development off Eastchester Avenue in the Williamsbridge section of the northeast Bronx called Hillside Homes. It has 1,400 apartments in buildings of four to six stories covering five city blocks. They had become part of a syndicator's portfolio in the 80's; the syndicator's loans in turn were part of a larger portfolio of bad debt that Emmes bought.
Vacancies were high and deterioration severe when Emmes took over, Mr. Davidoff said. Four hundred apartments were uninhabitable. But conditions have improved after an expenditure of $4.5 million, and the apartments are now 97 percent rented, he said. The name of the development has been changed to Eastchester Heights.
Bruno Pietrosanti, the partner at Lawless & Mangione who is in charge of the Paradise project, said that the theater's terra-cotta exterior would be restored and bronze doors replicating the originals would be installed. The building has five retail spaces along the Grand Concourse, fewer than the building had when it opened, and these will be rebuilt in a style in keeping with the original, Mr. Pietrosanti said.
Inside, the ornate ceilings and walls are being restored, the new carpet will replicate the design of the original, and concession stands will be built in the traditional design. The boxing and wrestling ring, when needed, will rise from the orchestra pit, and stage seating will accommodate additional ringside customers.
Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx borough historian, said he was ecstatic that the theater was being restored to its old elegance. "It didn't matter to me what use the theater would have as long as it was used as a theater," he said. "Stores would have been a disaster."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Baroque lobby of Loew's Paradise, left and below, is being restored for Latin music, wrestling and boxing in theater, above. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (54%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (54%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (54%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (54%); LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); BOXING (89%); HISTORIC SITES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WRESTLING (75%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (58%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: RICHARD P DECESARE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



379 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of Good and Plenty, a Disturbing Trend;
From Greenwich to Norwich, Demand Is Up at Food Pantries and Soup Kitchens

BYLINE: By MAURA CASEY 

 BODY:
TIMES are booming in Connecticut, but not for everyone. Ask Burt Stratton.
Mr. Stratton, who lives in Norwich, worked in construction until several heart attacks permanently disabled him. His disability income is $685 a month, $400 of which goes to rent a one-bedroom apartment. Utilities are extra. Although the state pays for nearly all of the several medications he takes for his heart condition, Mr. Stratton finds it difficult to come up with the $72 a month needed to pay for his prescriptions. To make ends meet, he eats nearly every day at the St. Vincent de Paul Place soup kitchen on Norwich's Main Street. 
 "It helps a lot," he said recently, while eating a lunch of roast beef, potatoes and green beans.
In direct contradiction to the state's low unemployment numbers and growth in personal income, business is on the upswing at places that feed the poor around Connecticut. In New Haven, Bridgeport, New London, even Greenwich, a growing number of residents like Mr. Stratton are using soup kitchens and food pantries.
"There is so much affluence here, it is hard for people to believe hunger exists," said Mary Biggs, director of the food bank of lower Fairfield County. According to an survey by the Connecticut Association for Human Services, 40 percent of emergency food sites in the state saw demand rise this year, not drop. In New Haven, demand rose an average of 22 percent from the year before, and in Bridgeport it climbed 37.5 percent. Just 15 percent of the sites saw a decrease and 45 percent reported no change at all.
The Connecticut Association for Human Services conducted the survey from November to January by mailing questionnaires to the 250 emergency food sites in Connecticut that are affiliated with the state's three major food centers, which gather and distribute food to shelters and pantries around the state. The results are based upon the 128 surveys returned.
The results, experts say, beg a question: If times are so good, why would only 15 percent of emergency food sites see a drop in demand?
"People see a booming economy and they forget that some are being left behind," said Paul Gionfriddo, executive director of the association, who said the survey was the most comprehensive the organization has ever conducted. "Welfare reform was touted as an answer to the needs of the poor. It clearly hasn't done that. The poor don't have enough money to meet their needs. People are using these sites every day."
Others said the increase in demand was evident, but were cautious about assessing the reasons for the increase. Ms. Biggs said that in the most affluent areas of the state, rents are so high that it becomes more difficult for some people to pay for food. "Last year we had even greater demand for food than the year before," she said.
Dr. Amy E. Sampson, who designed the survey and tabulated the results, said that she conducted a second survey of 400 users of food sites to obtain a snapshot of what groups used the services. She said of those who go to the sites, 25 percent are working either full-time or part-time, 20 percent are elderly, 35 percent are children and 40 percent are parents or other adults. More than 60 percent are white. Her survey contradicts what she feels is the prevalent image of who eats in soup kitchens: chronically poor, unemployed single men.
"Pantry use is being utilized by working families," she said. "People think hunger is only found in Hartford, Bridgeport and New Haven. Yet the survey found increased use across the state. It could be the person living next door who isn't making ends meet. Those who use pantries are like all of us," she said.
While soup kitchens typically set no restrictions on who can eat there, pantries sometimes screen applicants and set income limits.
Greenwich, a well-to-do community few would associate with the problem of hunger, saw an increase in demand at its food bank. In fiscal year 1997-98, Greenwich Social Services gave bags of groceries to 82 people or families from the food bank it operates in town hall. Then demand went up For the '98-99 fiscal year just ended, 130 people or families were given food, said Elisabeth Steinberg, director of adult and family services at Greenwich Social Services. She sees the drop in welfare payments as contributing to the problem.
"As the state cut back on welfare payments and made it harder to qualify for welfare, people have scrambled to make do," Ms. Steinberg said. "People went out and got jobs, sometimes two and three, but often they still weren't earning much more than they made under welfare. Since they have to make economies elsewhere, they do turn to food banks."
Lloyd and Lori Schlough of Norwich say that food banks help struggling families make ends meet, even for working families who have never been on welfare. The couple, both high school graduates who own their own home, ran into financial trouble after a painful nerve disease made it impossible for Mrs. Schlough to continue in her job as a head cook for Poquetanuck Elementary School in Preston.
After she took a leave of absence, the couple found it difficult to support themselves and their four daughters on Mr. Schlough's wages of about $12 an hour. He works as a feeder operator for a printing press at Caraustar Inc.'s plant in Sprague. They turned to the food pantry at Norwich Social Services for help.
"Six people can go through quite a bit of food," Mrs. Schlough said. The couple's daughters range in age from 8 to 13. At first, Mrs. Schlough said, it was difficult to ask for help.
"A lot of people are embarrassed to go to a food bank," she said. "It hit me harder because I am the one not working. I thought, "I am such a loser. I can't even feed my kids.' " About once a month the couple gets three bags of groceries from the pantry, which, she said, has been a great help.
Her medical problems make her wish she had been a better financial planner, Mrs. Schlough said, with three months' salary in the bank that her mother always said she should have set aside. "But when you are 28 years old, you don't think of being disabled," she said.
The high cost of living in Connecticut makes it especially difficult for the working poor, said Beverly Goulet, city welfare director in Norwich. She said that a new advocacy group, End Hunger Connecticut, was formed this year with the goal of eradicating hunger as a problem in Connecticut. But that's difficult, especially in a state with a high cost of living, she said.
"Families on minimum wage can't eat, pay high cost of rent and pay for health care all at once," she said. "So often, it's food that is sacrificed." Ms. Goulet said that the difficulties are magnified for those who dropped out of high school, and even those with a high school degree.
"People once could get a job in a factory without a college degree or even a high school degree and raise their families on the salaries," she said. "Those jobs are gone."
Yet it isn't merely that the manufacturing jobs in Connecticut are fewer, but that the jobs themselves have changed, said Fred Carstensen, a professor of economics at the University of Connecticut and director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis.
"Manufacturing itself has become a highly skilled occupation in this state," he said. "If you want to do manufacturing in this state, there is almost nothing you can get right out of high school. It used to be that a non-high school graduate could go into a manufacturing job, but you can't just walk into those jobs without good literacy skills and math skills, even some computer literacy."
Other emergency food sites saw an increase in the number of elderly people using their services. Norwich's St. Vincent de Paul Place soup kitchen, which keeps statistics on the number of people served and what groups they represent, said about 20 percent more elderly people were eating at the soup kitchen this year than last year.
That so many people eating free meals are elderly may indicate that they qualify for food stamps, but have not or will not apply, said Claudette Beaulieu, spokeswoman for the state Department of Social Services. She said that elderly people are traditionally more reluctant to apply for food stamps, even if they qualify.
"They don't want to be associated with anything such as a welfare program," she said. But there is also a more subtle difference, according to Ms. Beaulieu. Elderly people, she said, "Have a hard time thinking of themselves as poor. They think they just have a hard time making ends meet. A lot of them have lived through the Great Depression. By that token, in their view, they aren't poor."
After all the research she has done on the problem of hunger in Connecticut, Dr. Sampson's reaction is emphatic.
"It's sad," she said. "You should not have hungry people anywhere in the U.S. Especially not here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen Yeager, at left, of Norwich Social Services, packs food for Bori and Lloyd Schlough at the city's pantry. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 7); Betty Sheridan, at right, of Neighbor to Neighbor,a food pantry in Greenwich, prepares a bag of food for Eliabeth Cardona. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 6); People have lunch, top, at the St. Vincent de Paul Place soup kitchen on Main Street in Norwich. Above, Aaron Boisse, a volunteer at the kitchen, helps serve the food. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GREENWICH SOCIAL SERVICES (80%); HUMAN SERVICE GROUP INC (60%); CONNECTICUT ASSOCIATION (60%); NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (59%); NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (59%); CONNECTICUT ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN SERVICES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (59%); NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (59%); CONNECTICUT ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS FOOD CHARITIES (93%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEART DISEASE (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); 

PERSON: CASEY, MAURA BURT STRATTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



380 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2773 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY;
New Jersey Brownfields Are Drawing Developers

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J.

 BODY:
HUGE trucks rumble over uneven ground overlooking Upper New York Bay, carrying loads of construction debris and other fill that are reshaping a site that was the town dump for most of the century. The old dump is to be capped with 4.5 million cubic yards of sediment dredged from nearby shipping channels, and is then to be covered with several feet of clean dirt to create Hudson County's first 18-hole golf course.
The Bayonne site is a "brownfield," contaminated land that has sat unused because of the cost and risks of redevelopment. This area, in the Constable Hook part of the city, was a part of the bay until the early 1900's, when municipal garbage and industrial waste began to be dumped. 
 The site was closed to dumping in 1983 and has been vacant ever since, despite being open land in a densely populated region. What kept developers away was the stew of toxic substances beneath the ground; in addition to garbage residue, the site contained dyes, hydrocarbons and drums filled with unidentified materials.
The long delay in cleaning up such neglected sites is coming to an end in many locations, particularly in New Jersey. Over the last few years an increase in land values, changes in legislation regulating cleanups, the development of insurance policies that limit liability and the success of some pioneering projects have encouraged developers to pay more attention to brownfields.
"Brownfield development in the State of New Jersey is off the scale," said Richard Gimello, the assistant commissioner for remediation in the state's Department of Environmental Protection. He estimated that 1,000 to 1,200 of the state's more than 8,000 known contaminated sites are being worked on or are under active study.
"I'm having trouble finding case managers to handle the workload," he said. "It's a boom."
New Jersey's brownfield redevelopment is the most active in the metropolitan area because the regulatory climate in the other states is less certain. In Connecticut, efforts are under way to clean up former industrial sites in the Housatonic and Naugatuck River valleys.
New York still retains the strict cleanup laws adopted in the 1980's after the discovery of extensive contamination in the Love Canal area of Niagara falls, but state officials are reported by industry executives to be closely studying developments in New Jersey, and pressure is building to change the rules to permit economic development in the low-income areas that are typically near tainted land.
Brownfield developers say the strict standards imposed by these older laws are less of a problem than the uncertainty over how government will act. The developers also argue that it makes economic sense to impose lower cleanup standards on sites that will be put to industrial or commercial use than those that will be used for housing.
"With some of this old legislation, you never knew what the requirements were and how you could get out of a project," said Ronald R. Bruder, president of the Brookhill Group, which says it is the oldest and largest redeveloper of brownfield sites in the country. He said the company was doing business in more than 30 states where legislation more friendly to brownfield development has been adopted or the state environmental agency has taken a helpful stance.
Mr. Bruder said Brookhill was currently looking at four sites in New Jersey and expected to close on at least one before the end of the year. But he said he planned no projects in New York until laws and regulations were changed.
Mr. Bruder said brownfield redevelopment involves two main issues: the cost of cleanup and the property's potential for reuse. "We'll drill a lot of wells and do a lot of investigating and develop a number for the cost of clean-up. Then you have to figure the value in an adaptive reuse to decide whether to do the project."
He said that because many sites can be capped and reused without extensive cleaning, the environmental part of the equation is often less important than the site's real-estate potential. This means that an easily cleaned brownfield in a remote location may be less valuable than a dirty one that's convenient to potential customers.
Location meant a lot to the company that converted an old city dump in Elizabeth to the site of the Jersey Gardens shopping mall, which is due to open before the end of the month on the east side of the New Jersey Turnpike within view of Newark International Airport. Under a complicated arrangement with state officials and private companies, the 255-store outlet mall is to have its own exit from the Turnpike, where 180,000 cars carrying potential shoppers pass by every day. The company, now known as OENJ-Cherokee, bought the 185-acre site land for $10 million in 1992, spent $12.5 million remediating it and sold most of it to Glimcher Realty Trust in 1997 for $38 million to build Jersey Gardens.
OENJ-Cherokee retained about 40 acres of land facing Newark Bay, where it is planning a marina with ferry service to Manhattan and retail, entertainment and hotel development. The same company is also proceeding with the project in Bayonne and is seeking to turn an abandoned railroad and dock site in Woodbridge to an intermodal shipping center.
The structure of the company is an indication of how the brownfield cleanup business has developed in recent years. It was originally started, to do the Elizabeth project, in the early 1990's by two Danish businessmen, Peter Aargaard and Peter Pfeiffer. It has since largely been taken over by Cherokee Investment Security, a Denver-based company that manages funds raised from investors who see bargains in environmentally impaired real estate.
Most recently, Cherokee formed Cherokee Investment Partners II, to raise $250 million in equity from investors such as pension funds. The fund's first investment was to acquire OENJ's three waterfront sites for about $53 million.
Local companies have seen opportunities in converting contaminated sites as well. G. Heller Enterprises, of Edgewater, N.J., capped a site on Route 440 in Jersey City that contained toxic chromium compounds in order to make it suitable as the location for a Home Depot store. More recently, the company, in combination with Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn., purchased a 63-acre site in Edison from the Revlon Corporation for remediation and redevelopment.
A MAJOR spur to the activity in New Jersey was the enacting in early 1998 of the Brownfield and Contaminated Site Remediation Act. The law protects purchasers of contaminated sites -- called innocent purchasers -- from private lawsuits related to past pollution by other parties, as long as the land is cleaned up to state standards.
The law establishes different standards of cleanliness, with the highest for land to be used for residences and a lesser standard for industrial and commercial uses. It also permits the use of impermeable caps to prevent hazardous material from leaking out, rather than a complete removal of industrial residues, a much more costly undertaking.
Another important section is the provision of closure for brownfield projects by authorizing the Department of Environmental Protection to issue a covenant not to sue once a site has been cleaned to the relevant standard. And "innocent party" developers can receive tax breaks up to 75 percent of the cost of a project.
"In the past you were never sure what the requirements were to get out of a project," Mr. Bruder said. "Now there is a lot more certainty." And he said the recognition that all sites do not need to be made utterly pristine was similarly helpful.
"You don't have to get everything out of the ground to guard against health hazards," he said. "You can cap a site and put a covenant in the title that the property is never to be used as a nursery."
But capping and covering leaves pollutants in place, and that may pose a long-term threat to drinking water supplies, said Bill Wolfe, policy director for the Sierra Club of New Jersey. "The problem is with technical standards," he said. "The law now allows a nonpermanent remedy where we prefer a permanent one."
Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York, said economics have to be considered along with environmental concerns. "There are some pollutants -- such as lead and asbestos -- and some uses where capping and covering makes sense. But if you are dealing with volatile hydrocarbons, it has to be cleaned. We have to be sophisticated and allow for a variety of approaches."
As helpful as the New Jersey law and similar legislation in other states has been, some developers say the development of insurance policies for brownfield projects has been more important in limiting a developer's liability and ensuring nervous lenders that they will not be stuck with a dirty tract of land if something goes awry and they have to foreclose on the property.
"What the government giveth, the government can taketh away," said Christopher J. Daggett, a former New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection commissioner, who noted that companies who disposed of wastes in what were considered acceptable ways were branded as evil polluters once the Superfund Act was adopted by Congress. Mr. Daggett is now president of Chadwick Partners of Somerset, N.J., a brownfield developer.
He said he viewed the availability of insurance as a far more secure protection for developers than government regulations, because an insurance policy is a legally enforceable contract that is not as subject to changing political winds as environmental rules. He said that with this protection now available and with the price of land rising in many areas, developers are now more interested in contaminated sites they previously avoided.
Irving Cohen, president of OENJ-Cherokee, said insurance is part of what the company brings to a transaction. "We provide indemnity for the seller of property," he said. "We transfer the risk to the balance sheet of an insurance company."
The company brought a double-barreled environmental approach to both the Elizabeth and Bayonne projects. Both are former municipal and industrial dumps that had to have the worst contaminants removed and the rest stabilized and capped. Subsidence of the surface can be a problem for old garbage dumps as organic material decays, but the Elizabeth and Bayonne sites had been closed for so long that little organic material was left.
The capping material used in Elizabeth and planned at Bayonne is the muck dredged out of New York Harbor to keep shipping lanes deep enough for modern freighters. For decades the spoil was dumped at sea. But the harbor is the recipient of the pollution that flows down the region's rivers and falls from the air. It contains small, but detectable, amounts of heavy metal compounds, PCB's and toxic hydrocarbons.
Environmentalists have argued that when the dredged mud is dumped at sea, these toxics disperse in the water, where they are taken up by marine organisms and tend to accumulate in the flesh of larger hunter species that become seafood for humans. In recent years Federal regulators have greatly restricted ocean dumping of dredge material.
Dredging is a fact of life in the port, where the Newark Bay section is naturally only about 18 to 19 feet deep. The channels leading to the containerports off the Kill Van Kull in Newark and Elizabeth are currently dredged to a depth of 45 feet and there are proposals pending to dig down to 50 feet, to accommodate a new generation of larger ships. In addition to digging deeper channels, dredging must be performed to maintain existing depths in the face on an estimated 1 million metric tons of silt that flows downstream from the region's rivers each year. The New Jersey side of the harbor produces, on average, 1.82 million cubic yards of dredge material each year, according to Frank M. McDonough, executive director of New Jersey's Maritime Resources Agency.
All that muck has to go someplace, and with ocean dumping largely curtailed public officials and private developers have been seeking land applications. This is an approach that has the approval of environmentalists, if the material is treated to prevent the spread of toxics.
"We feel there are a lot less pathways to humans with upland disposal than with aquatic disposal," said Andrew J. Willner, director of the New York-New Jersey Baykeeper program.
OENJ's approach, developed after a year of testing, is to mix the dredge material with binders such as Portland cement and lime kiln dust in a large cylindrical tank called a pug mill which is located at the site. Once mixed, the material is dumped in piles on the site and allowed to dry before being spread out over the land. The resulting material is said to be resistant to penetration by water and with enough physical strength to hold up a shopping center, as it has at the Elizabeth site.
According to Mr. Cohen, the Bayonne site will be capped and contoured according to the needs of the as-yet-unselected golf course developer. It is to be covered with at least two feet of clean fill so grass and plants can be grown and to protect golfers from any contact with the dredged material. The course is expected to open in the latter part of 2001.
This dual approach, which is being employed by others, enables a company to do well by doing good. In addition to improving the value of the land, OENJ gets paid by the Port Authority for accepting the dredge material and treating it.
Tom Wakeman, the Port Authority's dredging program manager, said that demand for dredge material had increased as the Elizabeth project has shown that is a good alternative to buying dirt to seal sites like old dumps. That means the agency has been paying less to get rid of it.
He said OENJ was paid $56 a cubic yard to accept and treat the material used in Elizabeth, $40 to treat it and $16 as a tipping fee to take off the agency's hands. Tipping fees are common in the waste disposal business. And $56 a cubic yard was a huge savings from the $118 a cubic yard the Port Authority had to pay to ship dredge material from the Howland Hook marine terminal on Staten Island to Utah when ocean dumping first became unavailable.
But as dredge material has come to be regarded less as a waste and more as a useful raw material, the tipping fee has declined to $8 a cubic yard in more recent transactions and is expected to go lower still in negotiations now under way, Mr. Wakeman said. However, the agency still is paying developers to bring the material up to environmental standards and is currently paying about $35 a cubic yard, although other harbors have gotten that down to $10 to $20 a cubic yard, according to Mr. Wakeman.
THIS payment for treating dredge material appears to be behind the proposed second phase of the Bayonne project, which would involve filling 300 acres of open water between the upland part of the site and the Military Ocean Terminal to the north. The filling operation would consume as much as 10 million cubic yards of dredge material over five years.
Mr. Cohen said studies had shown that shallow water in the area was not a habitat for marine organisms and said the site would be developed into a park with ballfields, a marina and a wetlands/wildlife refuge area that would be donated to Bayonne.
But securing permits for the second phase may be far more difficult than the first, given the reluctance of environmental groups and government agencies to eliminate any wetlands areas.
The Mayor of Bayonne, Joseph Doria, who as a leader in the State Assembly helped pass the brownfields legislation, said the public golf course would be a welcome addition to the community. "The land had limited use as a brownfield," he said, "but blending it with the dredge creates 130 acres of needed open space."
He said it would neatly complement anticipated commercial development on the 437-acre Military Ocean Terminal, which is reverting to the city's control.
The second phase, he said, "is a much more difficult problem and there is a question of whether it will come to pass." He noted that no permits have been issued for the second phase and said that filling in wetlands "is a significant issue."
The issue of whether particular wetlands should be filled aside, finding a beneficial use for the dredge material is a "triple win" for the port and the environment, according to Mr. McDonough of N.J. Maritime Resources. "We remove the material, use it to cap a brownfield and we get a remediated site," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A contaminated site on Route 440 in Jersey City was capped to make it suitable for a Home Depot store. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 6); Irving Cohen, president of OENJ-Cherokee, which is turning the former town dump in Bayonne, N.J., into an 18-hole golf course. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); An old city dump in Elizabeth, N.J., has been turned into the 255-store Jersey Gardens shopping mall on the east side of the New Jersey Turnpike within view of Newark Airport. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of New Jersey showing locations of Jersey Gardens shopping mall and the proposed golf course. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LANDFILLS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); GOLF (71%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: RONALD R BRUDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



381 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
With Land Scarce, Developed Sites Are Reused

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: HANOVER TOWNSHIP

 BODY:
THE low-rise office building and warehouse on Park Avenue have been fixtures in this Morris County community for more than 40 years. But by June the two occupied structures, together totaling 74,000 square feet, will be vacated and then demolished to make way for a 150,000-square-foot Class A office building.
The site is at the intersection of Columbia Turnpike and Route 24. The latter artery, roughly an 12-mile stretch completed about seven years ago, connected the area to Newark International Airport via Interstate 78 in 15 minutes instead of 30 and spurred development at the crossroads. 
 The $30-million project has all its approvals and will be developed by the Wm. Blanchard Company of Springfield, which has owned the 14-acre site since 1955. The new building, at 10 Park Avenue, will take a year to complete. Rents in the buildings it will replace average $13 a square foot a year for the office space and $6.50 for the warehouse space.
With annual rents for prime office space in the area of the intersection ranging from $22 to $34 a square foot, Blanchard stands to make a profit in constructing the larger and more modern building on its site.
"We have Class C buildings on what now has become a Class A office location," said William I. Blanchard, secretary-treasurer of the family-run company. That fact, along with the strong economy, "makes this the right time to redevelop the site," he said.
In recent years office buildings and a new Summerfield Suites hotel have been built in the neighborhood around the Blanchard site.
Blanchard is not alone in recycling sites in good locations as the supply of buildable land dwindles. While some developers, like Blanchard, are using the knock-down, build-up strategy that has become popular in residential real estate, variations on that theme are occurring throughout the 11-county northern and central New Jersey market.
In Parsippany, also in Morris County, Wellsford Commercial Properties Trust of Chatham is recycling the 160,000-square-foot vacant former Estee Candy warehouse on Lackawanna Avenue. The company stripped the old warehouse to its steel skeleton and is now rebuilding it and expanding it to 250,000 square feet. The new building, to be called the Morris Technology Center, will be completed early next year.
On River Road in Nutley in Essex County, not far from Route 3, Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in Melville, N.Y., is transforming an obsolete 128,000-square-foot warehouse into office space. The 17-acre site could accommodate 110,000 more square feet of space.
AND in Edison in Middlesex County, the 63-acre former Revlon plant on Route 27, a collection of manufacturing, research and office buildings, is set to become a mixed-use complex. So far the developer -- G. Heller Enterprises of Edgewater together with Starwood Opportunity Fund IV, an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn. -- has leased back a 100,000-square-foot research building to Revlon along with 75,000 square feet in the 250,000-square-foot office building, which is being renovated.
All but 140,000 square feet of the 750,000 square feet of industrial space on the property have been demolished. Plans call for land on which the demolished structures once stood, as well as 18 undeveloped acres on the site, to be redeveloped for retail, warehouse and, possibly, office space.
"The health of the market is driving developers to seek out underutilized sites near highways so they can maximize the value of the land," said Jonathan Meisel, an associate director at Cushman & Wakefield, the national commercial brokerage. He said that the activity would continue "as long as development parcels remain scarce, vacancy rates remain low and rents rise."
The Blanchard Company leased the buildings on its site to single users from 1955 to 1995. Since then they have been rented to multiple tenants whose leases expire in June.
"We could have leased the buildings for another five years, but we would have had to put in a lot of money to upgrade them," said Mr. Blanchard. Instead, the decision was "to take the hit in the beginning by stopping a rental income and investing more money to build a new building, for a much better property and revenue stream in the end."
Industry experts said the area's change began with the development of a project called Park Avenue at Morris County in nearby Florham Park. The project, with 1.1 million square feet of space in six buildings, was started by Gale & Wentworth of Florham Park, with J.P. Morgan, in anticipation of the completion of Route 24. Since 1996, the last four buildings, totaling 500,000 square feet, were developed speculatively, said Mark Yeager, president of the Commercial Group at Gale & Wentworth. He said that all six buildings are now fully leased.
Mr. Yeager said the success of that project had encouraged his company to proceed, with Goldman Sachs, on a 203,000-square-foot speculative building in nerby Madison. That building, 7 Giralda Farms, is rising on 20 acres within the Madison Borough portion of the 310-acre Giralda Farms office park. The park spills into Chatham Township and was once the estate of Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge.
According to Sitmar Company/ONCOR International, a brokerage in Iselin, some 400,000 square feet of office space is under way on or near Route 24 and an additional 1.4 million square feet is rising throughout the county. Most of it is in the Parsippany submarket, where the conversion of the old Estee Candy warehouse is taking place.
At the same time, sublet space has filtered back onto the market, and that, along with the turbulence of the capital markets last summer and early fall, caused leasing activity in Morris County to level off during the first half of this year. As of Sept. 30, the office vacancy rate in the county was 12.4 percent, up 2.1 percentage points from the same time last year, according to Cushman & Wakefield. But that did not have a negative impact on asking rents, which rose by 79 cents a square foot to $28.67, the brokerage reported.
Most real estate experts said that the county had rebounded from its initial sluggishness and that the pace of activity would pick up. Barring an unforeseen economic disaster, said Mr. Meisel of Cushman & Wakefield, "the last wave of building will get absorbed in the next six months and the market will be where it was 12 to 18 months ago with tenants scurrying for space," especially large blocks of prime space.
That is what Mr. Yeager of Gale & Wentworth is betting on to lease the building his company is developing in the Route 24 market. "There will be corporations that will give back some space, but at the end of the day we are confident that the space will be absorbed on a regular basis," he said.
In addition to Blanchard, other developers have the approvals needed to start new office buildings. Among them is the Rockefeller Group, which secured approvals last summer to construct two buildings, each with 220,000 square feet, at its 140-acre Rockefeller Group Corporate Park on Park Avenue in Florham Park. Also, Reckson Associates has approvals to build 436,000 square feet on the property it owns within the Madison Borough portion of Giralda Farms. Neither project will be built on speculation.
Recently, Wellsford Commercial Property Trust purchased Airport Park, a two-building, 100,000-square-foot office complex on 16 acres adjacent to the Morristown Airport and not far from Route 24 in Hanover Township. The company plans to renovate the existing buildings and to seek approvals next year to build an additional 150,000-square-foot structure on the site, said Richard Previdi, its president.
Mr. Blanchard said his company's 150,000-square-foot building was being marketed to tenants looking for large blocks of space and the visibility from and access to Route 24 that the site provides. The hope, he said, is to have a tenant or tenants in place before the old buildings are demolished in June and start construction the following month.
If not, he said, "we probably will not begin the project until at least half the space is preleased."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of the 150,000-square-foot Class A office building at 10 Park Avenue that will replace two occupied structures in Hanover Township.
(Rotwein & Blake)
 
Map of northern New Jersey, highlighting Hanover Township.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (70%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (70%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM BLANCHARD CO (70%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (62%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); AIRPORTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



382 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3835 words

HEADLINE: After the Flood;
With a Billion of Dollars in Damage, New Jersey Will Be Wringing Out a Long Time

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
IT is now a month later, yet the cocoa-colored dust clings to the roads and sidewalks, the plate glass and vinyl siding, the tennis courts, teddy bears, junked cars and defunct furnaces.
The dried sediment of the record-breaking floodwaters let loose by Tropical Storm Floyd still coats huge swaths of northern and central New Jersey -- from the curb along Route 18 in New Brunswick, where even the flood-prone Raritan River had never intruded before, to the Elizabethtown Water Company pump house in Bridgewater, which was surrounded by berms built to hold back the kind of flood that is only supposed to happen every 500 years. 
 As torrential rains pounded the northern and central parts of the state, floodwaters eventually rose to all-time highs on 14 different rivers, sending thousands of workers home early, closing roads and paralyzing mass transit. More than 20,000 people were evacuated from their homes. Many had to be rescued from the raging, dirty brown water; some could not be. Winds toppled trees as well as power and telephone lines. Loved ones were separated. Heroes were made. The National Guard was called out. The world tuned in.
"It came from places that we've never seen it come from before," said Richard Futter, of Futter's Stride Rite shoe store in Millburn, which straddles the flood-prone Rahway River. "The previous floods came from the brook overflowing. But this time it came from up the street, from down the street, from down the mountain, from over the railroad tracks."
Early estimates put the total damage throughout the state at a billion dollars, including $800 million in the eight counties declared Federal disaster areas. About $250 million of that is uninsured, according to the State Office of Emergency Management.
A month later, the damage from the storm that pounded the area for four days beginning on Sept. 15 is stark indeed. In all, the emergency office said, 4.5 million people, or more than half the state's population, were affected in some way.
The waters of the Hackensack, Rahway and Elizabeth Rivers, the Ho-ho-kus Brook, Pike Run and countless other creeks, streams and nameless tributaries violently awakened by three months of rainfall in a single day have gone back to their muddy beds. But New Jersey is still wringing its hands.
"I've never seen anything like this and I hope to God we don't see it again," said Marie Scannell, 57, director of the Food Bank of Somerset County, who was flooded out of her home in South Bound Brook.
Help may come from the state's Congressional delegation in Washington, which is upset because it fears New Jersey will be short-changed by Federal relief authorities, and plans to introduce a measure providing grants up to $50,000 to each damaged business. But even if the financing is approved, which is by no means certain, it will take months for the Government to review the applications -- more than enough time for a small- or medium-size business to go bankrupt.
In addition, the State Senate on Oct. 25 is scheduled to vote on a bill intended to provide $50 million in grants and loans to flood victims, and another $10 million for local and state agencies to pay for overtime, supplies and other flood-related costs. But last week a spokeswoman for Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate president, said details had not been worked out on when people could expect to receive the money, or even how much would be in the form of grants.
The New Jersey Department of Labor is also offering special disaster unemployment insurance of up to $407 a week for a maximum of 26 weeks to employees and business owners put out of work by the storm. James Borders, a department spokesman, said checks began going out the beginning of this month.
"I'm sure it's going to be a year or better before people get recovered from this flood," said Leroy Gunzelman 3d, Somserset's emergency management coordinator.
Many may never recover.
Indeed, a preliminary assessment this month by the Office of Emergency Management found 251 structures were completely destroyed, including 71 houses, 105 apartment buildings and 75 business. Altogether, the agency said, 6,791 structures sustained major damage, with minor damage to another 26,036. A total of 76,606 structures in 253 communities were effected to some degree, from being reduced to rubble to having their basements flooded.
Two weeks after the storm, 126 inspectors from the Federal Emergency Management Agency had conducted a total 5,211 damage inspections, and $8.2 million in Federal assistance grants had been approved. Final damage assessments by the eight disaster counties will not be in until early November, 30 days after county and Federal officials began holding so-called "kickoff meetings" to begin the formal assessment process early this month.
Some 300 workers from the state and Federal emergency agencies are still working in a field office in a Piscataway office park, where operations were moved following the storm from the state emergency management command center in Trenton, the state's disaster war room.
As late as last week, more than 100 evacuees remained in the last shelter, an old Veteran's Administration office building in Hillsborough, and Red Cross officials said they did not know how long they would be there.
"You know what, if you put on a lot of blankets you can hardly feel its a cot," said Amanda Gonzalez, 17, who takes a bus from the shelter to Bound Brook High School every day. "I'm not, you know, like, devastated. I know God's going to come back and give me a house."
The exceedingly powerful hurricane, known as Floyd, did lose some of its punch as it raked eastern North Carolina with 138-mile-per-hour winds and torrential rains. While making its way up the East Coast, the storm weakened considerably and was downgraded to a tropical storm. Nonetheless, it swept over New Jersey with winds gusting over 70 miles an hour and dumping an average of a half-inch of rain an hour.
A monitoring station in North Plainfield operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration measured 12.03 inches of rain during Floyd's official four-day siege, with most coming on Oct. 16, a Thursday that many will not soon forget; 11.5 inches were recorded in Little Falls; Pequannock got 11 inches; 10.73 inches fell on Franklin Lakes; Greenwood got 10.58 inches; and Wertsville got 10 inches.
In many places, three months average rain fell in 24 hours, said Robert M. Hordon, a hydrologyst in the Geography Department at Rutgers University. "That's simply an enormous, enormous amount of precipitation," Professor Hordon said.
The fact that the storm was downgraded from a hurricane to a tropical storm meant little for the four people who drowned in flash flooding brought on by the rain. In addition, the police in Cranford blamed the storm for the death of a lieutenant who took his own life after working 48 hours almost non-stop coordinating the rescue of 350 people.
When the storm hit, its swirling, counterclockwise motion actually brought winds from the northeast, like the wintertime nor'easters New Jersey is more familiar with, said Mike Michael Changery, chief of the Climate Monitoring Branch of the National Climate Data Center in Ashville, N.C.
The rain and wind formed a devastating tag team against the utilities. "Trees down, wires down, poles down, and then all kinds of flooding thrown into the mix," said Susan Hohenadel, a spokeswoman for GPU Energy. "A lot of the roads that we needed to use to get to trouble areas were impassible and hindered restoration efforts."
Ms. Hohenadel said 291,500 customers lost power for four days in Burlington, Ocean, Monmouth, Mercer, Middlesex, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Warren, Sussex and Passaic counties. There were 8,400 trouble spots, and 578 repair crews assigned to fix them, some lent by utilities in Michigan, Connecticut, Illinois, Delaware and Maryland.
About 310,000 Public Service Electric and Gas customers in Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex and Union counties lost power for up to three days, said Lisa Ciffelli, a spokeswoman for the utility.
George Martins was one of them.
The 48-year-old Mr. Martins, 48, who runs a photo printing business in his basement in Newark, said he lost $50,000 in personal and business property because of the outage. No flooding would have occured, he said, if his sump pump had power. "We never thought we were going to get hit, because we're not considered a flood zone," said Mr. Martins, who was shopping at Home Depot in Garwood on a recent Saturday for cleaning, disinfectant and pest control supplies.
Public Service customers said 17,800 gas customers lost service for up to two weeks, and a handful remained without gas last week waiting for building inspectors to declare their buildings safe.
Floyd also slammed the phone down on much of the state. For four days, 37,000 homes, businesses and other locations served by Bell Atlantic in Rochelle Park, Lodi, Maywood, Paramus and Saddle Brook could not call their local police, ambulance squad, fire department or school, much less friends or family far away. And a million Bell Atlantic customers in 23 towns lost long distance service.
"If you think of long distance service as a freeway, Bell Atlantic is an on-ramp," said a spokesman for AT&T Wireless Services, Dave Johnson. "So it would be as if that on-ramp was blocked by a tractor trailor -- or by floodwaters."
Bergen, Essex, Hunterdon, Middlesex, Morris, Passaic and Union Counties were declared Federal Disaster areas, making them eligible for Federal disaster relief.
In human and dollar terms, the hardest hit was Bergen, where the county office of emergency management's preliminary damage assessment totalled $377 million, and where 7,410 people had to be evacuated. Of the 534 businesses effected, 72 were completely destroyed, and estimated damage totalled $46,588,000. About $40 million in public property was reported damaged in the county alone.
In Bergen County, the flood was felt most dramatically in Lodi. The Saddle River overflowed its banks, washing over the downtown -- including the municipal building , senior citizen's complex and dozens of houses. The Friday after the storm was a beautiful, sunny day, and there was a strangly carnival-like atmosphere in town despite, and perhaps in part because of, the damage, which closed schools and businesses, and gave people the chance to wander the streets that were somehow dry, marvelling at the high water and talking to frinds and strangers alike.
New Jersey Army National Guard troops from Trenton occupied the A & P parking lot, and aided in evacuations and rescues. At Felician College, up to eight feet of water occupied the student center, the cafeteria, a library and an adjacent cemetery where some 200 Felician nuns are buried.
"Our sisters are buried there," said Sister Theresa Mary Martin, the college president. "You can't see any of the tombstones."
Essex County estimated its damage at $134 million, with 21,854 homes effected in one way or another.
Somerset County, which includes Bound Brook, put its total at $130 million, with 4,411 evacuees. Passaic County's estimatewas $59 million, with 3,320 evacuees.
Eerily, the street lights stayed on at ground zero of the flooding, on Main Street in Bound Brook, illuminating the rushing water as it carried 40-gallon drums, car tires, branches and beach balls past second story windows.
Joe Lemire, 29, a freelance videographer, captured the scene from a third-story perch opposite the Bound Brook train station, before he was evacuated by New York City police. He also videotaped hardware store, an Italian bakery and a Chinese restaurant ablaze after the water caused a short-circuit that touched off an electrical fire. It through the night and sent up thick black smoke against a Friday morning dawn that gave the world its first shocking glimpses of the flood's devastation.
"We had every news agency from the BBC to the Moscow News," said Mr. Lemire, who was torn between getting the story and getting out safely. "Watching that water rise and seeing the lights flickering and a few buildings in flames down the street, I was getting a little worried about an electrical fire."
Two weeks later, in noisy testament to merchant resilience, saws and hammers pounded and shrieked from behind the padlocked door and newspaper-covered windows of one shop, where a sign read, "Coming Soon, muy pronto, Joyce's Bakery & Tacqueria."
Ray Woldin, 39, a realtor and former borough councilman who was out surveying the damage, said mere resiliency may not be what Bound Brook and other flood-prone areas need. "Something has to change down here, obviously," Mr. Woldin said. "It's time to step back, take a look and come up with a plan: Where's this town going to go in the next century? It's time to transform this town into something that can survive the water."
To Prof. James K. Mitchell, director of graduate studies in the geography department at Rutgers University, the best way to survive may simply be to move.
"It would probably be cheaper for society in the long run, the medium run, to buy up those properties that were in the flood plain and then relocate them, because those properties are going to be flooded again and again and again," said Professor Mitchell, who wrote book titled, "Crucibles of Hazard: Megacities and Disasters in Transition" (The United United Press, 1999).
Flood control policy makers have already come around to the idea in New Jersey. For instance, Governor Whitman last year set aside $15 million toward the purchase of 800 flood-prone properties along the Passaic River. In the meantime, a proposal by the Army Corps of Engineers for a $1.9 billion flood tunnel to try to control flooding in the region has languished for years for lack of support.
However, the Army Corps is moving head with the long-awaited Green Brook Flood Control Project, a $331 million, 10-year effort to control flooding in Somerset, Middlesex and Union counties, first proposed after a 1973 flood that killed six people.
"We were moving out," said Yvonne E. Spraggins, the project manager. "We were already planning on beginning the first constructino element in the spring."
After last month's flood, some people lamented that the project might have prevented much of the devastation. Ms. Spraggins noted that the timing of two meetings about the project -- on Sept. 21 and 30 -- in Middlesex and Bound Brook may have given the impression that they were spurred by the flood, but she said they had been scheduled well before then.
Working-class communities like Bound Brook, Manville and Lodi seemed to bear the brunt of the storm's assault, and perhaps not coincidentally. After all, Housing is cheaper in a flood plain than in the hills. There is even the possibility, said Professor Hordon, that less affluent areas bear a disproportionate share of the flooding brought about by upscale development at higher elevations.
But in the words of Sgt. Stephen Hoptay of the New Jersey State Police, a spokesman for the state office of emergency management, "The flood recognized no socio-economic bounderies."
In Millburn, a tony township in Essex County, a row of on Millburn Avenue in the heart of downtown were still in shambles last week. At one of them, Muebles Royal, which features reproductions of Louis XIV furniture, a banner read: "Flood Sale. Everything must go!" The armchairs and sofas, in hand-carved Russian oak, with gold leaf and Egyptian cotton and silk upholstery still looked fit for a sun king, but the wood had cracked from the flooding.
"People don't want to buy this," said the owner, Galal Saad, 40, who said he was only days from opening when the xxxxxxxxxx.
Not even the far reaches of Sussex County could escape. In Ogdensberg, the Heaters Pond Dam is being repaired after an overflow etched channels down its back side despite the fact that Police Chief George Lott had ordered the level of the 40-acre pond lowered by 5 feet in anticipation of the rain.
Eskil Danielson, emergency management coordinator in Sussex County, said that at the Concetta Tower nursing home in Franklin Township, high winds kept carbon monoxide generated by the heating system from exiting the building though a escape vent. Two residents and one emergency medical technician had to be hospitalized after inhaling the fumes.
In Middlesex Borough, at a Petroleum 19 service station, the owner, Alex Bruselovsky, spoke for countless frustrated property owners when he pleaed in a heavy Russian accent, "Why does Government give to other countries billions, billions dollars like present?" said Mr. Bruselovsky, 62, of Brooklyn. "Why can't they give to us?"
In the narrow ally between the station and the steep bank of the Middle Brook stood the four gasoline pumps that had to be replaced after the flood. Inside the garage there was vast heap of soggy, crushed cases of motor oil that had been toppled by the raging flood waters. Mr. Bruselovsky, who sold his service station in Brooklyn to escape the frequent robberies there, said the flood cost him $100,000 out of pocket.
"I got liability, everything. I no got flood insurance," he said.
A compact, white-haired man with blue eyes, Mr. Bruselovsky described a grinding routine in which he rises every day, seven days a week, at 2:30 A.M. to commute to the station. He has has sacrificed much of his own life in that fashion for two decades, he said, so that he could leave something behind for his grandchildren in Morganville. Now, he said, "Everything is gone."
Bound Brook quickly became the flood's poster child, with newspapers as far away as Sao Paolo, Brazil, publishing photographs of the borough burning and drowning. To be sure, other areas also suffered significant damage.
"Nobody thought about us during the storm," said Harry Shepherd, the emergency management coordinator for Hunterdon County, which sustained an estimated $8.5 million in damage. "We're still finding places every day that were effected."
Flash flooding completely destroyed five houses and caused $1 million in road damage alone, said Frank Fuzo, a Hunterdon County freeholder, adding that the Hamden River Road Bridge was still out.
On Main Street in Manville, in Somerset County where it used to rain ashes from the old Johns-Manville asbestos plant that is no longer standing, some residents who were drenched in a 1996 flood of the Raritan and Millstone Rivers decided to throw in the towel.
"We will not be back in Manville," said James Stainner, 37, sorting through the stained blueprints and crashed computers of his air systems consulting firm, USC Environmental, few days after the storm. "Three strikes and you're out. And we got hit twice already."
In the Lost Valley neighborhood nearby, washing machines, air conditioners, television sets, cabinets, dressers, mattresses and other possessions were piled up on curbs. Trucks carting debris from the flood lined up for a half-mile waiting to dump their cargo at the county trash transfer station.
Jerry Rzestowski was born and raised in Lost Valley but now lives in Bowling Green, La., where he works for IBM. Mr. Rzestowski, 56, was back in his hometown to bring his 80-year-old mother, Helen, down to live with him. It was the fourth major flood that Mr. Rzestowski said had inundated the little house on Knopf Street where he grew up. Its white vinyl siding was stained a light brown to a point five feet above the ground. As in so many other places, the stench of mildew hung heavily in the air, and the wooden floorboards were buckled. A pair of fiddles made by Mr. Rzestowski's brother, Tom, were spread on the floor with many of the family's other lost possessions. But Tom Rzestowski, 55, who works in a warehouse, has learned to be philosophical about the damage.
"You can't cry over this stuff, you know," Mr. Rzestowski said. "You have to laugh. It's not the first time."
 
Lessons to Be Learned From the Flooding
FOR all its destruction, last month's flooding will yield something positive: information for a research project at Rutgers University.
Under what the department is calling "The Great Raritan Flood Project," professors will research various aspects of Tropical Storm Floyd. The information will be incorporated into classroom material, giving students the benefit of learning by an example experienced firsthand. A report is most likely to be published in the spring, said Prof. Robert M. Hordon, a physical geographer and hydrologist at Rutgers.
This is no ivory tower endeavor.
Professor Hordon is focusing on the effect of 7 to 11 inches of rain in a 24-hour span on the Raritan River Basin -- a 785-square-mile drainage system, or watershed, for the Raritan and its tributaries that embraces much of Hunterdon, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris and Union counties as well as Somerset -- the fastest-growing county in the state.
During the storm, 18 monitoring stations run by the United States Geological Survey recorded new peak water levels, of which 10 were within the Raritan basin.
Professor Hordon will try to explain how development in the area has affected flash flooding. "Instead of allowing the precipitation to come into the ground, by paving it over, forcing the precipitation onto streets and storm sewers and gutters and so forth that quickly convey it to the river, urbanization and suburbanization make a stream flashier," he said.
Professor Hordon is also examining whether the summer drought aggravated the flooding. "If the ground becomes like cement, the infiltration is reduced," he said.
Professor Hordon said the quantity of new peaks suggested that maps delineating flood plains plotted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in 1979 may no longer accurately indicate an area's likelihood of flooding.
"The more data we collect on this flooding, the more it looks like these instruments are going to have to be revised," he said. The Federal agency agrees.
The maps were developed beginning in 1968 to assist state and local emergency management offices prepare for floods and to help determine premiums for the National Flood Insurance Program, said Mike Buckley, the agency's director for technical services. They are also used by banks to set interest rates for mortgages on property in or near flood-prone areas, and by planning boards and developers in determining the suitability of proposals.
The obvious concern, officials said, is that plans based on obsolete maps are inherently flawed. Indeed, Mr. Buckley said 58 percent of New Jersey's flood maps are at least 15 years old.
But cost is also a concern. Mr. Buckley said the work is labor-intensive, and revising maps for 17,000 communities is a costly proposition.
"We have developed a proposal to update and modernize our maps," he said. "It's being discussed by Congress and the administration as to how to fund it." STEVE STRUNKSY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In all, emergency officials say 4.5 million people, or more than half the state's population, were affected -- including those flooded on Millburn Avenue in Millburn. At left, the same location weeks later. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); In Millburn, above, damaged tables are stacked outside a Japanese restaurant. Below, Victoria Martinez, with children Meybel and Jose, are still at a shelter in Bound Brook. (Dith Pran, above, and Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 9); At the food Bank Network of Somerset County in Bridgewater, volunteers from Our Lady of Lourdes in Milltown sort food and other donated goods for flood victims. Alex Bruselovsky, the owner of a service station in Middlesex, said he had sacrificed so that he could leave something to his grandchildren. Now, he said, "Everything is gone." (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Chart: "Floyd's Aftermath" provides preliminary damage assessments by the eight counties designated Federal disaster areas by President Clinton following Tropical Storm Floyd. Officials said final assessments due next month may vary. (Sources: Offices of Emergency Management from the affected counties)(pg. 8)
 
Map of New Jersey: "Flood Waters"
he United States Geological Survey recorded new peak levels at 18 of the agency's monitoring stations on New Jersey rivers after Tropical Storm Floyd. Ten new levels were reported in the Raritan River Basin, which got up to 11 inches of rain in 24 hours. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: AWK (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (71%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY-AMERICAN WATER CO (71%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FLOODS; HURRICANE FLOYD HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); RIVERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (62%); SHOE STORES (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



383 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
Partnership, From Cradle To Campus

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ON college campuses, there are now "nonsmoking" dorms and "quiet study" dorms. But with fresh-faced undergraduates increasingly armed with laptops, cell phones, Palm Pilots and -- most important -- ideas, it won't be long before there are "entrepreneurs only" halls, too.
And with all the software and Internet companies being spawned by intrepid undergrads, you may soon be reading of sizable alumni contributions from chief executives with the ink barely dry on their diplomas. 
 Ben Nobel and Adam Menzel, 20-year-old college juniors who go back even further than Bill Gates and Paul Allen, are among the new entrepreneurs. They have built a financial Web site called Javaticker.com, which they run from their respective campuses, Middlebury College, in Vermont, and Brandeis University, outside Boston.
Indeed, colleges may be the perfect hothouses for seeding start-ups, said Lester C. Thurow, the M.I.T. economist and most recently the author of "Building Wealth" (HarperCollins). "Many schools are wired with fiber optics, broadband communications systems and provide access to instant downloading," he said in an interview. "You can do things from your dorm room that you won't be able to do from your home for another 10 years."
MR. NOBEL and Mr. Menzel met when they were barely out of the cradle. At 18 months, they toddled over to each other at a "Mommies and Me" play group in Port Washington, N.Y., and began networking.
It was the start of an extraordinary partnership. While Javaticker.com may be their most ambitious venture to date, it's hardly their first. As 12-year-olds, they hawked pears by the roadside. (Adam's family had a pear tree.)
Pears soon gave way to more practical products. On one wintry day, Ben's father was unable to unlock his car. All the local stores but one were sold out of de-icer. The boys bought the entire inventory, hurried to the train station and sold the canisters for double what they had just paid. Alas, they just "broke even," Mr. Menzel recalled, still with a twinge of regret. "We overstocked and we got frostbite."
In high school, the boys had bigger brainstorms. As comic book connoisseurs, they combed trade shows for comics that they could resell to a local dealer. And when they built shelves for their collections, they reasoned that everyone would want similar cabinetry. Off they went to the lumberyard, but the idea, as Mr. Nobel put it, "failed to get the national recognition we'd hoped for."
But recognition is finally knocking on their dorm-room doors. Two summers ago, Mr. Nobel, a computer science major, and Mr. Menzel, who is studying economics, were watching the financial news while riding side-by-side exercise bicycles at a local gym (apparently the 90's version of the garage). Their conversation turned to the user-unfriendliness of financial Web sites.
The next day they pitched their idea -- for a free, well-organized financial site -- to Greg Leib, a former Bear Stearns broker and now an Internet entrepreneur, who was a member of Mr. Nobel's local Unitarian Church. Mr. Leib signed on as sole investor, taking the chief executive's title.
Sixteen months later, after many all-nighters, no salaries and "tons of Chinese food," they have a solid financial site that offers updated headlines, scrolling stock tickers (which can be customized by the user) research, message boards, charts and weather, all in a colorful, easy-to-use format. Though the goal is to have advertising cover costs, the site has yet to break even. Mr. Menzel estimates that it has eaten $200,000 of Mr. Leib's money so far.
"Not much at all for an Internet company," Mr. Menzel said. And if the company has a future, each student has an 8 percent stake, with Mr. Leib holding the rest..
What is it like to be a chief technology officer while still in college? "I have to remember to turn off my cell phone in class," Mr. Nobel said. "My professors would probably throw me out if it went off."
MR. MENZEL, the chief operating officer, said he was lucky to have a girlfriend who understands his four-hour Friday night disappearances to attend to server problems or respond to user E-mail. His parents have been supportive, too. (And why not? They have a lifetime supply of lock de-icer in their basement.)
Friends on campus ask to work for them, as do some outsiders. "Yesterday this guy from Microsoft asked me for a job," Mr. Nobel recounted, still reeling. "He said our site sounded like a more fun place to work."
To meet a growing user base -- the site has an average of 12,000 hits a day -- three employees have been added. The three, also college students, grew up with the founders.
Future plans include, well, graduation. Then the dot.comsters may move the business to Vermont -- and perhaps eventually to Wall Street, in the form of a stock offering.
The management at Sun Microsystems, owner of the Java trademark, doesn't seem to mind that these cheeky upstarts are using the name. In fact, the company has invited the founders to display their stock in trade -- or trade in stock, as the case may be -- at the big Sun trade show in New York next spring.
"We'd love to go but, well, it's finals week," Mr. Nobel said with a sigh.
"Yeah, finals," Mr. Menzel added, regretfully.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adam Menzel, seated, and Ben Nobel in Mr. Menzel's dorm room at Brandeis. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JAVATICKER.COM (CO)

ORGANIZATION: JAVATICKER.COM (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ALUMNI (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); BROADBAND (67%); FIBER OPTICS (67%); WRITERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: MENZEL, ADAM; NOBEL, BEN; PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN, LAURA BILL GATES (56%); PAUL ALLEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



384 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: On Politics;
Running Stealth Campaigns, If Not Always by Choice

BYLINE: By Paul Zielbauer; Paul Zielbauer reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
New Jersey voters are basking in the silence of the October dead zone, the political season when nothing interesting crosses their radar, and even if it did, polls suggest they probably wouldn't care.
The barbed anonymous-fax wars between the dueling Democrats for United States Senate, Jon Corzine and Jim Florio, have paused, for now, while both campaigns stock up on fresh boxes of ink cartridges. The shock of Governor Whitman abdicating from the United State Senate race last month has also subsided, and the crop of aspiring Republican replacements have stayed off the airwaves and out of the headlines. 
 Which leaves the statewide Assembly elections on Nov. 2 as the next big thing, an event the overwhelming majority of voters don't even know about.
According to a recent poll by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University, 96 percent of the registered voters queried could not name which offices were up for election next month, much less articulate what any one candidate had to say. And because the poll's margin of error is 4 percent, statewide voter indifference could actually be as great as 98 percent (or if you're an optimist, as small as 90 percent).
"It's a very low-stimulus campaign," said Gerald Pomper, a professor of political science at Rutgers.
The poll, it should be noted, registered substantial voter concern for certain issues -- auto insurance, health care and property taxes led the list -- just not any awareness of the Assembly officials responsible for making laws about them.
Such apathy has many excuses. Or if you're an optimist, reasons. First, blame 1999, an atypical election year when the Assembly races top the ballot tickets. With no statewide offices or big-name politicians up for a vote, history shows that most people simply tune out until right before Election Day. The last time the Assembly led an election cycle, in 1995, only 38.6 percent of the state's 4.4 million voters showed up. Political analysts aren't offering even the slightest reason to believe that might change next month.
Next, blame Lord John Berkeley and Sir George Carteret, the two guys who in 1664 accepted New Jersey's geographical boundaries as is. Thanks to them, no part of the state would be beyond the reach of television stations in New York or Philadelphia, media markets that make it economically silly for candidates with no statewide recognition (e.g., members of the Assembly) to buy advertising that would reach voters en masse. Thus, Assembly candidates must still rely heavily on mass mailings and local cable television.
Third, blame the news media, which habitually glom onto the sexiest or seediest political stories and ignore the mundane stump fests popular during the October dead zone. Last Sunday, for example, when Mr. Florio debated another Senate candidate, Steve DeVos, at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, most reporters didn't bother to cover it.
Finally, blame the Assembly candidates themselves, incumbents and challengers alike, who thus far have been rather parsimonious about getting their messages out. As of Oct. 4, candidates for the 80 Assembly seats had raised a record $6.9 million, according to the New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission, but had spent only $2.4 million. Without a burning issue to hammer into voters' heads, said Ingrid Reed of Rutgers' Eagleton Institute, candidates don't bother spending too much.
There are exceptions, of course. Steven J. Corodemus, a Republican from Monmouth County, for instance, had spent $129,346.93 through last week to counter a challenge from Mayor Mike Beson of Neptune. But most candidates have only spent a few thousand dollars to date.
That will change soon enough, candidates from both parties say. By this time next week, mailboxes should begin swallowing a steady diet of direct-mail campaign fliers, while cable-access television shows are expected to glow with ads from candidates heading toward the homestretch.
Television sets will glow the brightest in the eight districts where Democrats have the best hope of picking up Assembly seats, said Joseph V. Doria, the minority leader who is organizing the party's charge up Assembly Hill. Reminded that Republicans control a commanding 48 to 32 advantage over Assembly Democrats, Mr. Doria chuckled and said, "That's when upsets occur."
Pressing to win eight district seats, Democrats say privately they would be happy to win five. Thought to be among the vulnerable Republican incumbents are Mr. Corodemus and Gerald J. Luongo, who is under investigation for allegedly giving tax breaks to his political allies in Gloucester and Camden Counties.
Which brings up one final point. A criminal record traditionally has not been a big boost on the campaign trail, but since this is New Jersey, perhaps it's not altogether crazy to think that could change. Just look at Steve (Weedman) Forschion, of Chesilhurst in Camden County, the Assembly candidate running on a pro-marijuana platform. Mr. Forschion was arrested Monday evening after he was stopped for speeding in Stratford, according to the police. The erstwhile Eighth district Assembly candidate was taken to the county jail after the police discovered he was wanted for failing to appear in court on -- what else? -- marijuana-possession charges earlier this year. His next court date is scheduled for Nov. 1, the day before the election. No word yet on whether the Weedman's campaign has enough petty cash to post bail.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Zielbauer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL JON CORZINE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



385 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Prosperity as Redemption For a Boomer Generation

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
EVERYBODY knows that journalism thrives on bad news: natural disasters, wars, financial crashes. Where would newspapers be without them?
So when a book comes along titled "The Long Boom: A Vision For the Coming Age of Prosperity," the natural reaction of any self-respecting economics reporter or editor is to examine it with a jaundiced eye. 
 For what if its message -- that the world stands on the edge of a "global economic expansion on a scale never before experienced" -- turns out to be true? In that case, the job of covering the economy in the future, I have to confess, would probably be a lot less engaging than it has been in the thrilling upheavals of the two decades I've been writing or editing articles about economics and business affairs.
Who wants to write an unending series of upbeat stories? Who wants to read them? People pay a lot more attention to the economy, after all, when things are going badly than when they are going well. Even the current obsession with getting rich in the stock market is built on the fear that it may all fall apart at any moment.
Despite my clear interest in finding fault, "The Long Boom" (Perseus Books, October 1999), is not so easy to dismiss.
The book's central thesis, first propounded in an exceptionally long article written by Peter Schwartz and Pete Leyden in Wired magazine in 1997, is by now quite familiar. "We have gone from an economy driven by the production of tangible things to one driven by intangible ideas," they argue. The global economy is in the midst of a "40-year period from 1980 to 2020 encompassing a critical shift from an Industrial Age economy to an Information Age economy, or a Knowledge Economy, or what we simply call the New Economy."
WHILE still controversial among economists, this kind of thinking has been accepted for years in the technology centers on the West Coast. It is reflected in the writings of everyone from Peter Drucker to Paul Hawken, whose seminal 1983 book, "The Next Economy," grew out of futurism scenarios developed at the Stanford Research Institute. Even Alan Greenspan is a convert.
And it turned out to be more prescient than the fashionably pessimistic East Coast views of the 1980's, expressed in critically acclaimed books like "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers," by Paul Kennedy, a professor at Yale. He predicted the decline of the United States as a world power only a few years before America's chief strategic rival, the Soviet Union, fell apart and its chief economic challenger, Japan, entered decade-long stagnation.
But the pessimists have been swept from the field, and American optimism about the nation's technological and economic superiority is running rampant. So what now? "If we do it right, it's an opportunity to build a vastly better world," said Mr. Schwartz, visiting New York the other day with Mr. Leyden, in a wide-ranging conversation. "This is the reverse of World War II. This is about more than simply protecting what we've got against the sea of darkness."
The allusion to World War II is revealing. Millions of baby boomers harbor a not-so-hidden envy of their parents' great crusade. "Saving Private Ryan" and Tom Brokaw's paean to "The Greatest Generation" have touched a chord: Making money doesn't compare to ridding the world of Nazism.
There's nothing wrong, of course, with recognizing the nobility of that heroic struggle. Self-sacrifice is morally superior to self-indulgence. But sometimes that wisdom slops over into a yearning for another war to fight, a hankering simply to risk death for a greater cause.
And that's where "The Long Boom" gets interesting. For what the authors are really doing is trying to infuse that hoariest of cliches -- the moral equivalent of war -- with real meaning for generations who, one hopes, will never experience a real war.
In essence, they offer an ideology for college-educated knowledge workers, who will soon be the largest class in America. They advocate globalization and open markets, and while not particularly anti-government, they are vaguely libertarian in outlook. They see rapid growth built on technologies like fuel cells and genetic engineering as capable of improving the environment rather than degrading it. "It's an anti-Blade Runner vision of the future," Mr. Leyden said.
The payoff from all this in 25 years or so, they argue, will be to pull perhaps half the world's population out of subsistence living into a vast, well-educated global middle class. The average life span would lengthen tremendously. The risk of global warming would disappear.
I've got my doubts. They underestimate the threat of deep cultural conflict and a backlash against technology that would result from fast growth. They tend to congratulate the high-tech centimillionaires of Silicon Valley simply for doing what they do best: getting rich. And their vision is too New Agey for my taste.
Still, their dream looks superior to the likely alternatives. Growth is indeed better than stagnation. Peace beats war. If that's not so good for reporters, so be it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE JOURNALISM (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, PETER; LEYDEN, PETE; REDBURN, TOM ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



386 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: 'White Flight' Student Exploited Trenton School

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Lincoln's father says that it "took guts" to attend a predominantly African-American school, and his mother tried to "guide and protect" him. Where did Lincoln get his notion that Trenton High is violent and dangerous? Is it because whites are not in the majority? Shouldn't reaching across barriers begin with honesty and lack of prejudices? Lincoln claims that he wanted to experience life in a poor ghetto. Any place that is not white suburbia is not a ghetto and good parents, rich or poor, raise children who have strong principles and moral values and who do not judge others by the color of their skin or their economic status. 
 And what will Lincoln do with his new-found knowledge that there's not much difference between a white Hopewell teen-ager and a black Trenton teen-ager? Will he be too busy working on early admissions applications to colleges to reflect on his experience or will he help others who may not have access to top-notch college counseling?
I am a teacher who spent the early part of my career living in Trenton and doing substitute teaching in the public school system (yes, even Trenton High). Sure, public schools have their problems all over the country, but I enjoyed getting to know my students and teaching them. I currently teach in an independent school in Princeton. Clothes and slang may vary, but I have learned that basically kids are kids. I only hope that Lincoln and his family will come to this realization.
 
DENISE G. BENCIVENGO
Mercerville 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHNUR-FISHMAN, LINCOLN; BENCIVENGO, DENISE G WILL LINCOLN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



387 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: State Is Far From Reluctant To Aid Its Cities

 BODY:

To The Editor:
At New Jersey's recent Urban Summit, a host of mayors, community leaders and citizens spoke of the positive strides being made in the state's cities. They commended New Jersey state government for its involvement in rebuilding urban neighborhoods and stimulating economic development. Speakers told of new housing, new jobs and a new spirit of optimism taking hold on city streets -- quite a different view than the New Jersey section offered in a recent article ("New Jersey's Cities: Sad Urban Presence Encircle by Wealth," cover, Sept. 26) that strangely described the state's urban efforts as "reluctant." 
 There has been nothing reluctant about the state's approach to improving urban areas. To the contrary, there has never been as much financial, programmatic and technical assistance provided to New Jersey's cities.
Under the leadership of Governor Whitman, the state has put together a tool kit of resources to help urban communities realize their plans for redevelopment. We're helping to create a climate for investment that is key to the long-term health of our cities.
And those efforts are making a measurable difference, putting cities at the top of the construction activity charts and changing the face of troubled neighborhoods.
While development is up, and state aid is up -- not only for cities, but for all municipalities -- crime and unemployment rates in our major cities are down.
There are many signs of progress in New Jersey's cities. But events like the Urban Summit are not held to declare victory. They allow us to take stock of our successes and to focus on the challenges ahead.
The state will continue to aggressively help New Jersey's urban areas fulfill their potential as centers of commerce and community.
 
JANE M. KENNY
Trenton
 
The writer is Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); KENNY, JANE M (COMR) URBAN SUMMIT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



388 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Land in Manhattan for $1 a Lot?

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
THE bird's-eye view of Manhattan, from the southern tip of the island northward at least a hundred blocks, is a continuous stream of concrete, save the expanse of Central Park and a few other swaths of greenery. Only north of 96th Street, in Harlem and East Harlem, are there still large tracts of undeveloped land. So in July when the city offered to sell nine parcels of city-owned land in upper Manhattan for $1 apiece to anyone who submitted a suitable proposal for housing, developers from Washington Heights to Long Island scrambled to submit bids. By the deadline last week, 23 groups had proposed a total of 45 projects for the sites.
The city's offer did not only represent a rare opportunity to build on empty land in Manhattan. It also offered a chance to participate in the redevelopment of Harlem. And the competition is fierce. 
 "These are big sites, they're going to be big projects, and they're going to have a big impact," said Mark S. Alexander, executive director of Hope Community, a nonprofit housing developer in East Harlem that has submitted a bid for one site and is involved in two other proposals. "On the one hand, there's the perception of it being a land grab from people who are bent on gentrifying the area. On the other hand, it could be a part of the comprehensive plan for the redevelopment of Upper Manhattan."
The disposition of the property by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development is part of an effort to increase the supply of housing for what it classifies as middle-income people -- those with household incomes of up to $133,500 a year -- in neighborhoods saturated with low-income housing projects and social services, said Commissioner Richard T. Roberts. "It's a call for diversity in the economic mix in Harlem," he said.
Noreen Clark-Smith, who has been a member of Community Board 10 in central Harlem for more than 30 years, said the board has been asking the city to develop housing for residents with moderate incomes since the 1980's. "Our housing stock has been used for a population of low-income and no-income people," she said. She argues that without higher-income residents commercial and public services in the neighbhorhood are not likely to improve.
But because East Harlem and Harlem are still home to many of Manhattan's poorest residents, some fear that they could be priced out of the market. "With some of the better-situated projects, there is a likelihood that developers are going to be suggesting rents upwards of $2,000 for a two-bedroom apartment," Mr. Alexander said. "Clearly, these apartments are not going to be affordable to large numbers of people in our community, and that is going to be very controversial."
Mr. Roberts said recent attempts to create housing for people with higher incomes, like a program to rehabilitate historic brownstones in Harlem, have shown that there is a significant market for middle-income housing uptown. The city selected the nine sites because officials believed the locations could attract professionals and others who might otherwise be drawn to the suburbs. They are encouraging development of co-ops and rentals middle-income families could afford. Rentals would range from $750 to $1,750 a month depending on apartment size.
Only three of the nine sites -- two on Frederick Douglass Jr. Boulevard and 117th Street, and one on Fifth Avenue between 138th and 139th Streets -- will receive city subsidies to assist development. Those three will be partly financed with up to $2 million per site from the nonprofit Housing Development Corporation, which is linked to the city's housing agency.
From the word go, there have been competing visions for the sites. The Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields, said in July that she wanted assisted living centers for the neighborhood's elderly residents to be included among the projects. "These sites give us a chance to respond to needs in the area," she said this week. Ms. Fields offered to provide $1.3 million in borough money if a developer included an assisted- living component. She also suggested that the Frederick Douglass Boulevard site house a charter school and offered to have the her office help with financing.
Mr. Roberts said the housing agency would take Ms. Fields's ideas into account when considering the proposals. But, he added, "That is not to say that those funds will necessarily be utilized."
The city is now reviewing the 45 proposals, a process that is expected to take several months. Among the ideas officials say they will consider are residential high-rises, mixed-use buildings with retail space on the first floor, town houses and co-ops.
Though some developers who have submitted proposals declined to discuss them, others offered a preview of their plans.
Hope Community, with the Velez Organization, a Hispanic-owned development and contracting company, has proposed a $35 million plan for a lot at 102d Street and First Avenue. The group wants to build a six-story building with 147 rental units and 30,000 square feet of commercial, office and community space, possibly including a church, alongside a four-story walk-up with 32 rental apartments.
L & M Equity, a developer in Larchmont, N.Y., has teamed up with another company, BFC Partners, on two proposed projects in East Harlem. On one lot between East 100th and 101st Street from First to Second Avenues, they have proposed a $25 million to $30 million project that would include a six-story building with two- and three-bedroom rental apartments and 20 town houses that would sell for $160,000 to $180,000.
"We're banking on the fact that these are in a fairly good neighborhood and we think we could get good rents," said Ron Moelis, a partner at L & M. "We think we can pull some of that market from the East 90's into these apartments."
The Arker Companies of Woodmere, N.Y., has offered proposals to build 397 apartments on four sites -- on Bradhurst Avenue near West 146th Street, on Frederick Douglass Jr. Boulevard and 117th Street and on First Avenue from 100th to 103d Streets. The $60 million plan calls for several eight-story buildings and a charter school, and includes middle-income housing as well as some apartments for families with annual incomes of $28,000 to $32,000.
The Settlement Housing Fund, a nonprofit housing development group, has plans for a total of 179 co-op apartments on three sites, all at the intersection of Frederick Douglass Jr. Boulevard and 117th Street; a two-bedroom apartment would sell for about $55,000. The group's $36 million plan also includes a charter school, which would be a joint venture with the Study Center for Law and Peace, a public middle school in Harlem.
Developers said they were thrilled to get a shot at the $1 deals.
"It's very exciting," said Nina DeMartini-Day, a partner with DDM Development and Services, a developer in East Harlem that has a hand in two proposals. "It's a wonderful chance to continue the revitalization that's under way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bid was submitted for this lot at First Avenue and East 102d Street from Hope Community, a nonprofit housing developer. Mark S. Alexander, executive director, visited the site last week. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)
 
Map of New York City highlighting sites of the proposed lots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA RICHARD T ROBERTS (61%); C VIRGINIA FIELDS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



389 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Consumers May Be Losers in a Verdict on Auto Parts

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
NOW that a court in Marion, Ill., has imposed a record $1.2 billion judgment against State Farm for ordering some collision damage to be repaired with generic car parts, three groups that consumers rank among the least-trusted -- insurers, auto body shops and trial lawyers -- are arguing over what it means.
Its ultimate effect may be a rise in insurance rates, not a triumph for consumers. State Farm, the nation's largest auto insurer, and some other insurers say that if they have to stop buying generic sheet-metal parts -- generally knock-offs from Taiwan -- and rely only on the auto makers, policyholders could pay additional billions of dollars (although State Farm says it can cover the direct costs of the verdict without raising rates). 
 It is not only that Ford charges $192 for the fender on a 1995 Explorer while the generic part costs $79, or that Chevrolet wants $545 for the hood on a 1999 Lumina, almost double the generic price of $279. If the generic parts disappear, insurers say, the car makers will have a monopoly, abandoning all restraint.
The insurance industry's poster car is the 1997 Taurus GL, which sold for $19,000 new, but would cost $72,000 if assembled from spare Ford parts today, a trade group estimated. And that is with the restraining influence of competition from generic parts.
The lawyers who brought the suit against State Farm dismiss the insurers' arguments and say the decision will give policyholders what they were promised in their policies: replacement parts of "like kind and quality." Nobody can make a bumper or a headlight assembly for a Toyota that is as good as Toyota's, and sell it for less than Toyota does, the lawyers contend, pointing to economies of scale and competitors' need to reverse-engineer. Imitation parts cannot "transcend their destiny," one lawyer said, and become genuine.
The auto body shops say that not having to deal with generic parts means that their work will go faster and easier, leaving fewer grounds for consumer complaints.
But the shops, the insurers say, have a history of billing for genuine parts, installing the generic ones and pocketing the difference -- sometimes to satisfy customers who want the shop to absorb the deductible.
The dispute over repair parts applies only to sheet metal, since other parts are not generally seen as threats to automotive purity. "There is a whole world of after- market parts that people are very accustomed to using," said Michael J. Donoghue, vice president of claims at Allstate, the second-largest auto insurer. He cited Midas mufflers, Monroe shock absorbers and NAPA parts. "People don't seem to question those things," he said. But these parts don't show.
Many consumers, however, have learned that they can end up with poor repairs no matter the source of the parts. Good body work, like good house painting, can require an assertive consumer, willing to reject shoddy jobs. In auto body repairs, the paint, the most visible part of the project, is applied by the body shop, regardless of where the parts are made.
DISPUTES over collision damage probably go back to the creation of the second car, providing a target for the first one to collide with. After an accident, many people feel dissatisfied with their insurance companies. In their defense, the insurers point out that drivers deal with them mostly during times of trauma, hardly the best circumstances for getting to like someone with power over you.
The immediate stakes in the current dispute are highest for the State Farm customers who filed 4.7 million accident claims in the last 12 years, and whose cars were repaired with generic parts. Those customers are in line for payments averaging $250, unless an appeals court intervenes.
State Farm says that if its appeal fails and it must pay the $1.2 billion, the verdict will cost customers nothing. The lawyers who brought the class-action suit earnestly agree and say the decision is not anti-consumer.
It is not clear how the verdict will make any of the parties happier. The sum is huge by historical standards but perhaps not for State Farm, which has $16 billion salted away for catastrophes. Spread among the 37 million policies issued by the company, the cost of the judgment comes to about $32 a car. In an economic sense, it is a transfer between overlapping groups of policyholders: those who have had a collision claim or two among the 4.7 million, and those who have not.
Not everyone agrees that the decision will be of much aid. "Your check will be, maybe, for $1, and you will end up paying higher premiums," predicted Robert J. Hurns, an auto insurance specialist with the National Association of Independent Insurers, which represents 620 companies.
But Elizabeth J. Cabraser, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, pointed out that a State Farm actuary had testified that a judgment would not affect rates. As a nonrecurring expense, the company said, the bill cannot be built into premiums.
Whatever the verdict's impact on future rates, the cost of auto insurance has been declining recently. State Farm says it has returned more than $1.5 billion, including dividends, to policyholders in the last two years, in part because claims have been lower than expected. Use of after-market parts was another reason, the company says, saving policyholders $234 million in 1997 alone. (But in an internal document entered as evidence in the case, executives worried that the high cost of defending generic parts in court was eating up the savings.)
Across the industry, auto insurance prices are declining by a projected 4.5 percent this year, according to the Insurance Information Institute, primarily because of a declining accident rate and safer cars. In addition, new car prices, drunken driving and car theft are all down. And the insurers, which invest their customers' premiums, are making money in the bull market.
But to borrow a phrase about gasoline mileage, when it comes to your own rates, actual results may vary. Because the car population is rising far faster than the number of households, and because many of those households have been buying expensive sport utility vehicles, many families are paying more for insurance.
Insurance premiums include costs for theft, liability and injury; collision damage and related costs are about 38 percent of the total. But that cost is rising relatively rapidly, more than 3 percent last year, about half again as fast as the Consumer Price Index, according to the Insurance Information Institute.
State Farm, for now, has given up generic parts. Some companies, like Chubb, are crowing that they never used them. Chubb also boasts that it puts no ceiling on the rate it will pay for body shop labor. It is not insurance for people who want to minimize transportation costs; most of its customers have cars that are three years old or less.
But Allstate uses after-market body parts in about 20 percent of its repairs. As an incentive, it guarantees those parts, but not auto company parts, for as long as the customer owns the car. Only a few car owners refuse the after-market parts, the company says.
Allstate says it sets standards. "As a general rule, we won't use after-market parts on a new car," Mr. Donoghue said, adding that exactly when they should be used was up to the adjuster.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: "Comparison Shopping for Parts"
Auto body parts made by original manufacturers are almost always more expensive than parts made by competitors. Prices of selected parts for some popular models.
 
1996-99 Ford Taurus
 
Bumper
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $238
GENERIC PARTS: 190
DIFFERENCE: $48
 
Hood
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $269
GENERIC PARTS: 159
DIFFERENCE: $110
 
Fender
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $136
GENERIC PARTS: 90
DIFFERENCE: $46
 
1988-99 Chevy 1500 Pickup
 
Bumper
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $202
GENERIC PARTS: 159
DIFFERENCE: $43
 
Hood
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $299
GENERIC PARTS: 128
DIFFERENCE: $171
 
Fender
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $149
GENERIC PARTS: 77
DIFFERENCE: $72
 
1997-99 Toyota Camry
Bumper
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $160
GENERIC PARTS: 121
DIFFERENCE: $39
 
Hood
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $282
GENERIC PARTS: 252
DIFFERENCE: $30
 
Fender
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $195
GENERIC PARTS: 189
DIFFERENCE: $6
 
1995-97 Ford Explorer
Bumper
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $372
GENERIC PARTS: 291
DIFFERENCE: $81
 
Hood
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $350
GENERIC PARTS: 144
DIFFERENCE: $206
 
Fender
MANUFACTURER'S PARTS: $192
GENERIC PARTS: 79
DIFFERENCE: $113
 
Data compiled by Iowa Auto Damage Appraisers in July 1999.
(Source: Alliance of American Insurers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM INSURANCE COS STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (90%); ALLSTATE CORP (57%); ALLIANCE OF AMERICAN INSURERS (59%); ALLIANCE OF AMERICAN INSURERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE FARM INSURANCE COS ALLIANCE OF AMERICAN INSURERS (59%); ALLIANCE OF AMERICAN INSURERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INSURANCE (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (72%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



390 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Ignoring the Skips In a Latin American Beat

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
SINCE May, the Brazilian real has been declining. At the end of last week, it was at 1.98 to the dollar, not far from its low for the year of 2.15, in March.
But the decline has caused much less concern among investors than one might think. After all, the 1999 low came after Brazil made headlines by suddenly devaluing its currency in January. 
 In addition, four other worrisome events this month have passed without a major outcry in emerging markets, which just a year ago were teetering on the brink of disaster. First is the default, by Ecuador, on Brady bonds, something that has never happened before. It was those bonds that helped pull Latin America out of its debt crisis in the 1980's. Second is the threat of another interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve -- a move that would steepen borrowing costs of already heavily indebted countries. Third is the downgrade by Moody's Investors Service of Argentina's long-term-debt credit rating to B1, four notches below investment grade. And fourth is the rejection by Brazil's Supreme Court of new taxes on retired and active government workers that would have cut the deficit in the country's social security program.
In fact, one barometer of sentiment is improving. The spread, or difference, between the yield on emerging-market bonds and the yield on comparable United States Treasury bonds has narrowed since August, to 10.87 percentage points from 12.34, according to J. P. Morgan Securities. The spread has also narrowed for Latin American bonds alone.
Most Latin American stock markets have also fared reasonably well. In Brazil, the Bovespa index has rallied 9.3 percent since August, while in Argentina, the Merval index is up 9.0 percent, despite recent selloffs in both markets.
"The market has been strong, given how negative the fundamental developments have been recently," Joyce Chang, global head of international fixed-income research at Chase Securities, said of Latin American bond markets. "If this happened in July, there would have been a selloff."
The reason for this performance, she said, is that "the increase of cash inflows into emerging markets is outweighing negative fundamental developments."
For investors, this should be a yellow flag. The new cash inflow is not a result of the improvement in the long-term outlook. Instead, it is an asset-allocation call. Because expected returns elsewhere are not looking so good, especially in bonds, global cash that can go anywhere is finding its way back to Brazil and other Latin American markets.
Lehman Brothers is recommending a position in Brazil just because the spread over United States Treasuries there is about 2 percentage points wider than the spread over Treasuries in Argentina. The belief is that the Brazilian spread should move back toward the level of Argentina's, which would push Brazilian bond prices higher.
But as more new money comes in, it may set up another sharp decline if, as some analysts expect, the news gets worse on Brazil and Argentina next year. It was the flight of this kind of global cash that added to the big selloff in emerging markets in the fall of 1998, when the world financial crisis reached its worst point.
A quick look at Brazil shows that the view into the new year is not so rosy.
Yes, the Government is moving to close the deficit gap opened by the Supreme Court decision. But the country still has an enormous debt burden, faces budget deficits in the years ahead that will be just as difficult to bridge and has a Government that could lose the political will to continue with very painful economic reforms, especially with important municipal elections next October.
"Brazil remains vulnerable to swings in confidence and, more importantly, to political and fiscal shocks," said Jose M. Barrionuevo, director of global market strategy at Lehman Brothers. "As we move into next year, if there is economic growth higher than 3 percent in the first quarter, Brazil has a shot at easing the political pressures." That is because the spending cuts and tax increases needed to balance the budget would be less severe.
"But if growth is weaker," he said, "the social pressure will build going into the municipal elections."
So why recommend Brazilian bonds? "We are likely to see some improvement in the short term," he said, referring to the interest rate spread between Brazil and Argentina. But that is not an enticing invitation for the average investor.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Brazilian Real to the dollar since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (97%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (97%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY BONDS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEBTOR NATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



391 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Soft Money's Multifaceted Foe

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
CHARLES KOLB may be this city's most unlikely champion of campaign finance reform. A conservative lawyer who worked on domestic policy in the Bush White House, Mr. Kolb acknowledges that he never expected to be doing what he is doing now.
As president of the Committee for Economic Development, a group of chief executives and academic leaders committed to public policy changes, Mr. Kolb leads its fight against soft money, those unlimited contributions to political parties that have come to exemplify the capital's cash-flush influence industry. 
 "I personally came at this with a deregulatory viewpoint," explained Mr. Kolb, who is 48. "But the more I studied it, the more concerned I became about the appearance of influence-peddling, the quid pro quos. There should be access to politicans, but I don't think you need to pay a toll to get it."
He paused to catch his breath. "I have become something of a radical on this subject," he said.
Trim and energetic, Mr. Kolb may look like just one more sharply dressed politician or lobbyist -- until he opens his mouth. He speaks in eloquent, perfectly formed paragraphs about the need to change a Federal election system that some analysts say may cost $3 billion in 2000.
As the leader of a fiercely nonpartisan group, Mr. Kolb says the organization does not reflect his biases. "If it did, I wouldn't be doing my job," he said. Still, his friends are not surprised that, as a champion of noble causes, he has embraced its position on campaign finance reform.
Upon leaving the Bush Administration, where he was deputy assistant to the President for domestic policy, Mr. Kolb wrote a book whose title communicated its author's intense disappointment: "The White House Daze: The Unmaking of Domestic Policy in the Bush Years" (Free Press, 1993).
The path that led Mr. Kolb to his current post also wound through law and charity. "I've never worried about answering the question, 'What do you want to do with your life?' " Mr. Kolb said. He has a one-word explanation for his good fortune: serendipity.
Business executives consider it serendipitous that Mr. Kolb took the post at the Committee for Economic Development in September 1997. He is its fourth president in 57 years, and his predecessor held the job for 31 years. Several trustees credited Mr. Kolb with invigorating the organization.
The committee is an independent research organization that recommends economic and social policies. Its board includes executives of General Motors, Xerox, Merck and Sara Lee.
Despite the organization's growing momentum, Mr. Kolb has occasionally found it difficult to persuade executives to publicly endorse a soft-money ban. They worry that their endorsement will hurt their corporations on Capitol Hill.
"When Charlie talks with most C.E.O.'s, they are very sympathetic, very supportive," said Michael J. Petro, the committee's director of business and government policy. "But then they say, 'Let me put you in touch with our Washington guys,' " who often try to kill the idea.
Mr. Kolb blamed what he calls the capital's cottage industry of money and influence. "The people who favor the status quo are the people who hand out the checks and the people who cash the checks," he said.
Mr. Kolb always wanted to practice law. It was what other men in his family had done. He went to Princeton, then to Balliol College at Oxford University, where he received a master's degree in philosophy, politics and economics.
At Oxford, he met the academic who had the most influence on his life, Sir Isaiah Berlin, the renowned historian who died in 1997 at 88. "What he taught me is there is no excuse for arrogance," Mr. Kolb said. He once invited Sir Isaiah to tea in his dormitory room. "And for four hours, the leading philosopher of this century sat on my bed and sipped his tea and talked with me."
Mr. Kolb earned a law degree at the University of Virginia, and after practicing at two Washington law firms, joined the Office of Management and Budget. He then moved to the Education Department, where he met his wife, Ingrid. (They now have a 2-year-old daughter, Charlotte.) In 1990, he joined the White House, working on domestic economic, education, legal and regulatory issues. After that, he spent five years as general counsel of the United Way.
On his desk, Mr. Kolb displays evidence of his freedom from partisanship: a canceled check for $250 that Mr. Kolb wrote on Nov. 1, 1996, to the re-election campaign of Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican and ardent opponent of changes in the campaign finance laws.
Last summer, Mr. McConnell took on Mr. Kolb's organization, writing a blistering letter to as many as 20 executives who had endorsed a soft-money ban. Mr. McConnell accused the group of trying to "eviscerate private sector participation in politics" by imposing "anti-business speech controls."
At the bottom of most letters, Mr. McConnell scribbled a message that some executives regarded as a threat: "I hope you will resign from C.E.D."
Mr. Kolb responded sharply. "I think it was an abuse of senatorial authority," he said. "It did a lot to convey to the public what this fight is all about."
In the end, Senator McConnell's smash-mouth tactics backfired. Publicity about the letter helped the organization recruit more executives, doubling its ranks. Now, 212 executives have endorsed the soft-money ban. And not one executive resigned.
With a smile, Mr. Kolb said, "It is far better to be attacked than to be ignored."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Kolb, a conservative lawyer and head of a group that promotes campaign finance reform, said, "There should be access to politicians, but I don't think you need to pay a toll to get it." (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); DEREGULATION (75%); WRITERS (68%); 

PERSON: KOLB, CHARLES CHARLES KOLB (97%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



392 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
They Exist. Therefore They Are. But, Do You Care?

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
IT sounds like a philosophical cousin to the age-old question of whether a tree falling in the forest makes a sound if no one is around to hear it. In this case, though, Federal officials are seeking to add an economic variable to the puzzle: just how much is it worth to you to know that a once-dammed river is running wild again -- even if you never visit it?
In the midst of a major study of whether or not to breach four huge hydroelectric dams on the Snake River in eastern Washington, economists with the Army Corps of Engineers are adding a factor known as "existence value" to their list of costs and benefits of the contentious proposal. 
 Breaching the dams would restore 140 miles of the lower Snake to its wild, free-flowing condition and would, many biologists argue, stand a good chance of revitalizing endangered salmon runs in the river. Aside from calculating the proposal's effects on jobs, electric bills and shipping rates, the Government is now hoping to assign a dollar value to Americans' knowledge that a piece of their wilderness might be regained.
"It's an indication that there are certainly folks out there who are willing to pay for the existence of something in the wild," said Dennis Wagner, the Corps official overseeing an economic analysis for the agency. "I think we'd be remiss in not presenting something to the decision makers. How they use that information is up to them."
The idea of existence value, favored by many environmentalists as a legitimate policy tool in conservation debates and ridiculed by critics as unquantifiable, meaningless or both, has been around since the 1960's. "There's not a single, agreed-upon definition," said Tom Stevens, a professor of resource economics at the University of Massachusetts. "But the basic idea is that yes, people do place a value on things they know they are never going to use, or maybe even to see."
The concept, also known as contingent value or passive-use value, has been increasingly cited in legal battles over issues like logging in the Alaskan wilderness or offshore oil drilling. Yet many economists say that while existence value is, in theory, a perfectly valid factor to bring to the table, coming up with precise ways to gauge how much people value something like wilderness is far more difficult.
"The idea that you'd be willing to pay something for some state of the world to exist, as you would pay for a commodity or a contract for services, is not at all crazy," said Alan Randall, chairman of the department of agricultural, environmental and development economics at Ohio State University. "The controversy, really, is mostly about measurability."
In the Snake River debate, for instance, proponents of the dam-breaching proposal have pointed to polls suggesting that Seattle-area residents would be willing to pay a few extra dollars a month on their electricity bills in order to save salmon runs. In addition, Professor Stevens and a team of economists at the University of Massachusetts found in a survey several years ago that residents of the Connecticut River Valley area said they would pay, on average, $7.90 annually in higher electric bills for efforts to preserve Atlantic salmon spawning in that river.
And at the height of a legal fight with Exxon over the 1989 oil spill from the Exxon Valdez tanker, the state of Alaska commissioned a $3 million study of what Americans who said they were unlikely to ever visit Prince William Sound would be willing to pay to avoid a similar accident. About $30, was the average respondent's figure.
Using polls and other data, some economists at the Corps of Engineers have calculated that breaching the four Snake River dams and successfully restoring the salmon is an idea for which Americans would be willing to shell out as much as $1 billion, but others have pegged the figure much lower, said Mr. Wagner. "It's really not an exact thing," he said.
Still, proponents of breaching the dams say that even if the existence value of restoring the river and salmon can't be precisely quantified, it is both large and meaningful. "If that guy in Dubuque thinks that this is important, that shows that this is a national issue," said Chris Zimmer, a spokesman for Save Our Wild Salmon, a Seattle-based environmental group. "This is a quality-of-life issue for people. It's important to their well-being that they know we still have wild places left."
Critics argue, in effect, that it doesn't really matter what the guy in Dubuque thinks. "It's really an affront to the people who live here," said Bruce Lovelin, executive director of the Columbia River Alliance, which represents industrial users of the Columbia and the Snake. "I mean, unless you're going to come up here and spend some money to recreate, don't tell us how we should run things in the Northwest."
OTHERS question whether such a value can be accurately measured. "The only way to do it is to ask people what they would be willing to pay, and in my view you ask people questions like that and you get very upwardly biased results," said Jerry Hausman, an economics professor at M.I.T. "When somebody calls you on the phone to ask, it's not real money."
Existence values are generally used to buttress the environmentalists' side of the debate, but that doesn't mean all environmentalists like the idea. "Maybe it's really not appropriate to try to put dollar values on something like wilderness," Professor Stevens said. "After all, what if you add up all those numbers and they don't come out in your favor?"
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, whose department oversees national parks and much of the more than 100 million acres designated as protected wilderness, also cautions against using existence values in environmental debates -- but largely because they may wind up understating the value of wilderness.
"There's a huge collection of academic literature on all this, and I've found it fairly unsatisfactory," Secretary Babbitt said in a recent telephone interview. "It all comes down to quantifying economic activity, and I don't know if you can do that on any piece of landscape."
"We know the cost of everything and the value of nothing, is what this is all about," he added. "You can't just cost this stuff out."
The debate is complicated by the fact that many of the same people who say they would pay to protect wild rivers and wild fish would surely respond differently if asked whether they want to put port workers in Idaho out of work or drive up shipping rates for wheat farmers (both likely effects of the dam breaching plan).
In the end, as Secretary Babbitt warns, economics could wind up driving a debate that perhaps should be about something far deeper. Wallace Stegner, one of the great writers of the West, was clearly talking about existence value in his ardent calls for "wilderness preserved," but the author never veered into discussing actual dollars and cents.
"The reminder and the reassurance that it is still there is good for our spiritual health even if we never once in 10 years set foot in it," he once wrote. "It is important to us when we are old simply because it is there -- important, that is, simply as an idea."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: When some people think of salmon, this is what they envision. (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times); Another salmon, this one through the fish ladder viewing glass in Seattle at Hiram M. Chittenden Locks. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SNAKE RIVER (PACIFIC NORTHWEST); WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; DAMS AND DIKES ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FISHES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); WILDERNESS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (76%); RIVERS (76%); ARMIES (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (75%); UTILITY RATES (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); BIOLOGY (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



393 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Are the Glory Days Over For the Dip-Buyers?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
WILL they or won't they buy the dip?
It has become a Wall Street truth that whenever share prices drop, bargain hunters throng to the stock market, providing a floor to equity prices and relief to damaged portfolios. Investors who have courageously waded in to buy the dips in recent years have saved many trading days from disastrous falls. And they've made big dough doing it. 
 Unfortunately, last week, the dip-buyers did a disappearing act. The question is, will they be gone long?
During the week, the markets certainly gave bargain hunters plenty of opportunities to buy. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 5.9 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 6.6 percent.
Some market strategists think that the week was an indication that the days of the dip-buyer may be over. According to these people, investors today are less likely to jump in when stock prices fall.
There are several reasons for this. Most important, the level of cash that investors have on hand to put into the stock market is low. For most of the major investor groups, cash reserves are near the low end of their 45-year ranges, according to Christine A. Callies, chief United States market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
In the second quarter, cash in American households stood at 3.59 percent of total financial assets, a new low and well down from 3.96 percent in the third quarter of 1998. Borrowings to buy securities, meanwhile, are at a record $155 billion, compared with $78.6 billion in 1995.
Other investors have diminished cash holdings as well. Cash held by managers of mutual funds stands at around 2 percent of funds' total financial assets, down from 2.56 percent in the third quarter of last year. And cash available for investment at non-life insurance companies is 4.51 percent of total financial assets, the lowest since 1984.
The only investors with a greater cash hoard are life insurance concerns, a group not known for aggressive forays into stocks.
Even if investors had more funds to devote to stocks, Ms. Callies suspects that they would not be the asset of choice. "I think that some investors will still buy the dips but less than would have been the case four or five months ago," she said. "Confidence in high valuations tends to erode once investors realize that interest rates are going up."
Dip-buyers have been AWOL in mutual funds as well. Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services, said equity funds had net outflows of $1.1 billion in the seven days ended on Wednesday.
Investors have also been abandoning high-yield bond funds, a place where they had been happy to park their funds during previous periods of market turmoil. Last fall, for instance, when the Russian collapse roiled the stock market, investors still felt comfortable putting money into high-yield funds. But in the week ended on Wednesday, 168 funds reported net outflows while 125 funds reported inflows.
So, it seems that well before Thursday, when Alan Greenspan wondered aloud whether investors were aware of increased risks in stocks, mutual fund investors had been recoiling from risk.
As Mr. Adler said: "When the stock market collapsed last year, money that left the equity markets was reallocated to debt. This October, there is no evidence of a reallocation. Risk aversion is spreading."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks money borrowed to buy stocks from 1990 through 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); AMG DATA SERVICES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ROBERT ADLER (66%); CHRISTINE A CALLIES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



394 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: It Seemed Easy: Sell Shampoo To the Chinese

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
IT seemed a good idea at the time. When a business acquaintance named Jerome Axelrod approached John Paul DeJoria, the co-founder of the Paul Mitchell line of hair-care products, with a plan for distributing the company's shampoos, detanglers and sculpting sprays in the People's Republic of China, Mr. DeJoria jumped at the chance.
After all, why not have somebody you know -- someone you trust -- act as your representative in what is potentially one of the biggest consumer products markets in the world? 
 Three years and one lawsuit later, Mr. DeJoria is far from bubbly about the arrangement. His privately held, $100 million company, which is based in Santa Clarita, Calif., has broken off relations with Mr. Axelrod, who also uses the name Jerome Alexander in business. And Mr. DeJoria is suing him, along with several other defendants, accusing them of creating a fraudulent operation in place of the promised distribution in China.
The lawsuit contends, among other things, that most of the products sent to China ended up back in the United States, often on drugstore and supermarket shelves, in violation of Paul Mitchell's policy of selling only through approved beauty salons.
Last month, a Federal judge in Manhattan issued a temporary restraining order that prevents Quality King, a distributor based in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., that Mr. DeJoria says worked in concert with Mr. Axelrod, from selling Paul Mitchell products. A lawyer for Quality King, Anthony J. Viola, said the company "denies any knowledge of or participation in the fraud that is the centerpiece of Paul Mitchell's complaint."
Stanley R. Goodman, a lawyer for Mr. Axelrod, said he would be presenting "viable defenses to this action." The defendants have not yet filed a formal response with the court.
A burgeoning gray market for brand-name merchandise with a certain perceived cachet gave rise to the situation, the lawsuit says. Now, Mr. DeJoria, a veteran of overseas expansion in 48 other countries, says he has learned the hard way -- the company estimates its losses at as much as $45 million -- how not to do business in China. "If somebody wants to start out really big, be very cautious," he said the other day. "China is slow in development."
That was underscored by Jeffrey E. Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management who was Under Secretary of Commerce for international trade during President Clinton's first term. Professor Garten has witnessed plenty of business disasters, as well as successes, in China.
"The Pepsis, the AT&T's, the Honeywells and General Electric are really in it for the long term," he said. "They have very sophisticated strategies. They have really dug in and invested in Chinese communities, built education institutions in China and developed webs of connections with all levels of Chinese society."
On the other hand, he said, "many small companies tend to get carried away by the hype that China has suddenly become a market economy."
"There are pockets of it," he added. "But in order to succeed in China today, you have to establish yourself as an entity that is aligned with the Government's long-term goals. That doesn't mean Communism, but it does mean training people and showing you are not a fly-by-night company and you actually care about Chinese society."
Here is a cautionary tale from the Paul Mitchell experience for businesses that want to expand abroad, whether in China or other difficult environments.
 
Lured by a Billion Heads of Hair
Mr. DeJoria said Mr. Axelrod's offer seemed perfectly legitimate when it was made in 1996. To begin with, Mr. Axelrod and his son, Berin, spoke Chinese and would be living and working in China. And Mr. Axelrod also had something of a high profile in the United States, thanks to his televised sales of cosmetics bearing the Jerome Alexander name on a home-shopping channel.
"We said, 'Now, Jerome, this is strictly selling to salons,' " Mr. DeJoria recalled. " 'No drugstores or supermarkets.' He said: 'I know that. Trust me.' "
Mr. Axelrod also signed a document, attached to the lawsuit, stating the terms of the distribution agreement, which limited sales to beauty salons in the People's Republic of China. Paul Mitchell began shipping products to Mr. Axelrod's offices in Shanghai, which operated under the name China Distribution and Marketing Inc.
The first shipment went out in 1997.
It was not until July of this year, after the company made its final shipment, Mr. DeJoria said, that a Paul Mitchell employee who spoke Chinese, Anna Wang, went to Shanghai and found that nearly all the products had been rerouted from a duty-free warehouse, where they were being stored, back to the United States, via Rotterdam in the Netherlands. Once in the United States, the lawsuit says, Quality King dispensed them to drugstores, supermarkets and other outlets that were not salons.
Mr. Goodman, who represents the Axelrods and a third defendant, Robert A. Seibel, who was China Distribution's in-house lawyer, said he found it curious that Paul Mitchell singled out Chinese consumers who have "more of a concern about putting food in their mouths and a roof over their heads than getting hold of Paul Mitchell products."
"What would they be doing in Communist China?" he asked about Paul Mitchell. "It just seems ludicrous to me."
Michaeline Re, the chief legal officer for Paul Mitchell, said that in China's developing consumer economy, the company could gain millions of customers. "Yes, it's not going to sell out in the farmland," she said. "But in the major cities, people are buying consumer goods."
 
Growing Demand, Growing Suspicion
As Mr. DeJoria and Professor Garten noted, building a business in China can take a long time. But as demand ballooned for Paul Mitchell products in the first year, Mr. DeJoria began to wonder, he says now.
"It wasn't jibing," he said. "They were ordering so much."
The lawsuit contends that in the last of seven shipments the company sent to China Distribution, only about 7,000 of 144,000 bottles and tubes of Paul Mitchell products actually made it to Chinese salons in cities like Shanghai and Beijing. The remainder wound up back in the United States, according to the Paul Mitchell lawyers. The retail value of that last shipment was about $6 million, said Geoffrey Potter, a lawyer for Paul Mitchell.
Mr. Goodman suggested that Paul Mitchell was simply seeking to improve its sales and didn't care where the products went. He noted that none of the products in question are in his clients' possession.
"Perhaps this was another way of augmenting the distribution of the company," he said, "to send these products to other parts of the world."
 
An Unwelcome Feeling During a Field Trip
Mr. DeJoria led a delegation of Paul Mitchell executives and hair stylists to China in late 1997. They held news conferences, gave interviews to newspapers and organized training sessions for salon owners in Shanghai and Beijing. "Our trip was delayed three times" at the Axelrods' request, Mr. DeJoria said. "I had to talk them into letting us go over and give them support."
A senior Paul Mitchell stylist, Bill Peplow, went to Shanghai late last year, also to see how things were going. "His trip was delayed several times, too," Mr. DeJoria said. According to the lawsuit, "Mr. Peplow's visit posed tremendous risk to the defendants that their fraud would be discovered."
Memos attached to the complaint and attributed to China Distribution include one that ordered the defendants' China employees to "stay with him at all times -- we do not want him to go off on his own even if it is for sightseeing." The lawsuit said Mr. Seibel, the China Distribution lawyer, sent that memo on Aug. 28, 1998, to Randy Zhou, an employee in Shanghai.
Mr. Goodman said he had not seen all the memos and had no comment.
Both Mr. DeJoria's group and Mr. Peplow were stalled not only in getting to China, but also once they arrived, the lawsuit said. It contends that the employees of China Distribution had to scramble from salon to salon to conceal the dearth of Paul Mitchell products in actual use in China.
"We went to a couple of salons that had Paul Mitchell products there," Mr. DeJoria recalled. "But there were many delays. They kept saying our schedule is too tight. They showed us some salons in Shanghai. But when I asked to see more, they said our schedule is too tight, or the other salons are outside the city and in the provinces."
The lawsuit says that as Paul Mitchell executives left one salon, the same products they had seen in that salon were being hastily forwarded to the next destination, to make it appear as if Paul Mitchell shampoos were readily available all over Shanghai.
"Mr. Zhou arranged to take Mr. Peplow on a slow route from salon to salon while the Paul Mitchell products in the salon just inspected would be rushed to the next salon to be inspected," the lawsuit says. "The ruse was successful."
Mr. Goodman scoffed at the story. "It's all hearsay," he said.
 
Finding Paul Mitchell In All the Wrong Places
Last year, when a Paul Mitchell employee was shopping at a drugstore in the Midwest, he spotted some of the company's products and bought them, Mr. DeJoria said. The numbered codes on the bottles indicated that they had been part of a shipment to China.
Mr. DeJoria said he confronted Mr. Axelrod with the discovery.
"He said, 'Maybe someone went into China, bought two bottles and brought them back to sell here,' " Mr. DeJoria recalled. "He said, 'There's nothing that left China.' "
Mr. DeJoria said China Distribution's lawyer, Mr. Seibel, also assured him that everything was fine. "Don't worry about it," Mr. DeJoria said Mr. Seibel told him. "It's all in China."
 Mr. DeJoria said there were many such sightings of Paul Mitchell products across the country.
But that's not so unusual, Mr. Goodman countered, adding that he did not think the brand in general was as closely protected as the company liked to depict it.
"You can find them in any drug chain," he said.
The China operation began to unravel this year in Shanghai's sticky summer heat. Randy Zhou, who led Mr. Peplow on the salon tour and was China Distribution's chief liaison in Shanghai, had become bored on the job, Mr. DeJoria said. After all, the lawsuit contends, he had very little to distribute.
And he saved many of the memos he received from his bosses, including a final one, written by Mr. Seibel on June 16, 1999, the lawsuit says, that instructed him to cover his tracks.
"Lastly, please destroy this memo along with all the others after you have read," it said, according to the lawsuit. "No paper trails!!"
Mr. Zhou appears to have ignored the request. He described the situation to Ms. Wang, the Paul Mitchell executive, in July, according to an affidavit filed by Ms. Wang.
Mr. Goodman, however, said he thought Mr. Zhou might have had some other motivation. "He was bored?" Mr. Goodman asked, sarcastically. "He had nothing to do but turn over his employer's documents? If that's what boredom is, I would watch everybody who doesn't have anything to do."
As for whether the documents would be key evidence in the case, Mr. Goodman said he had not yet had the time to assess their relevance.
"Quantity," he said, "is not necessarily evidence of quality."
The case will be taken up in a jury trial in United States District Court in Manhattan early next year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings: Executives at Paul Mitchell, the hair care products company, said they were excited about a proposal to expand their marketing into China. Paul Mitchell executives say that during a visit to China, their hosts scrambled to conceal how few hair products were distributed to salons. But a lawyer for the company's agent in China calls this "all hearsay." Paul Mitchell's lawsuit says its products were diverted from China through Europe and back to the United States. A judge's temporary restraining order forbids an American distributor from selling the products. (Illustrations by Felipe Galindo)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEJORIA, JOHN PAUL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEJORIA, JOHN PAUL

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HAIR; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SHAMPOO AND HAIR PREPARATIONS LITIGATION (91%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); LAWYERS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); JUDGES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: AXELROD, JEROME; HAYS, CONSTANCE L JOHN PAUL DEJORIA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



395 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: A Superpower Flaunts Its Ignorance

BYLINE: By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
The Senate's rejection of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty has unleashed a torrent of gloomy historical analogies. The Republicans are retreating to isolationism, we are told, and this latest humiliation of the President is comparable in impact and significance to the Senate's refusal to ratify Woodrow Wilson's signature on the Versailles Treaty, ending World War I, in 1920.
The comparison is tempting. It is indeed rare for a President to be overruled on such a significant foreign-policy decision. And the manner in which the Senate majority has eviscerated a major international agreement does recall the events of 80 years ago. As in 1920, so now: the hubristic self-confidence of a Democratic President has been brought low by a resentful Republican majority, and an imperfect but vital international accord may have been weakened beyond repair. 
 But the resemblance stops there. Historical analogies are always imperfect, sometimes misleading. This comparison risks diluting the implications of the Senate's actions.
Versailles was a truly flawed treaty -- economically unenforceable and more likely to arouse nationalist demands than to mollify them. The senators' motives in refusing to endorse Wilson's signature were of course mixed, but some of the doubts expressed were substantive and prescient.
In any case, the failure of the World War I peace settlement and the League of Nations that it created had little to do with American absence from the international scene. To be sure, America's retreat contributed to disillusionment with the outcome of the war, but even under the rosiest Wilsonian scenario the United States was never going to underwrite or police the settlement, and no one thought it would.
The other great powers of the time, Britain and France, adjusted their policies in light of America's partial retreat: the British avoided offering their continental allies security guarantees that they could not enforce without help, while the French flailed around in search of allies to the east. But their behavior -- and that of Germany, Italy or the Soviet Union -- depended far less upon the actions or inaction of the United States than did the behavior of foreign powers after World War II.
The situation now is very different. "Isolationism" does not quite capture the mood of Senate Republicans; if anything, it flatters them. The Senate's behavior bespeaks a studied indifference to the outside world, a refusal to take seriously the very question of relations between the United States and the rest of the globe.
For this, of course, President Clinton bears some responsibility. For a long time he paid no sustained attention to foreign policy. Even when he did concentrate on it, he remained obsessed with its impact on domestic politics -- witness the intervention in Kosovo, the first war in which the avoidance of any casualties at times took precedence over military and diplomatic objectives. If the Republicans now gleefully treat foreign treaties as the small change of factional reprisal, their behavior, however unseemly, is not out of keeping with a set of priorities this President helped to establish.
Indifference -- and an appalling ignorance of affairs beyond our borders -- carries risks at least as great as isolationism, while lacking even the appearance of a reasoned basis for policy. For a long time the United States led the world in efforts to restrain the production and dissemination of nuclear weapons. The 1963 Limited Test Ban Treaty, the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the strategic arms treaties of the 70's and 80's, the unilateral moratorium on underground testing since 1992 and the recent Chemical Weapons Convention may all have been cosmetic, as some have charged -- and even hypocritical, freezing situations in which we were ahead. But hypocrisy is the homage that vice pays to virtue, and by appearing virtuous we were able to pull along many others in our wake.
Like all international accords, the test ban treaty may be imperfect. But our endorsement of it would give us increased leverage over those, like Russia or China, who need good relationships with the United States, as well as over others, like Pakistan, India or even North Korea, who should be given grounds to fear our displeasure. If we behave like a rogue nation ourselves, smug in our monopoly of virtue and weapons, how can we hope to bring pressure to bear on true rogue nations overseas?
In recent years we have ceased to set an example. If anything, the United States today leads by counter-example. We don't pay our dues to international agencies. We block, oppose or impede agreements on the environment and the punishment of war crimes. We are obsessed with our sovereignty in a world where our own actions bear witness to the growing limitations on the absolute sovereignty of states. And hearing the Senate debate the case for unrestricted nuclear testing, one would suppose we had learned nothing and forgotten nothing since the very earliest days of the cold war.
The only time the United States speaks consistently and with authority in the international arena today is in defense of free trade. But because the contrast between our energetic initiatives on free trade and our calculated obstruction on everything else is so stark, we stand accused even by our friends of cynical self-interest. What we claim as the universal benefits of unrestricted commerce in agriculture, for example, Europeans interpret as the self-serving marketing of undesirable commodities for the benefit of American agribusiness.
This growing isolation is a perilous condition for the world's only great power, which is why the comparison with Versailles doesn't hold and the situation is more serious. In contrast to great powers of the past, the United States is governed by men who have absolutely no grasp either of their country's responsibilities or even of its capacities.
In certain instances American detachment can stimulate local substitution: thus doubts about the reliability of the American security umbrella may lead to the forging of a common European defense force. But in inherently global questions there can be no substitute for the global superpower.
In any strategic effort to make the world a marginally safer or better place in the coming century, the United States has to take the lead. As it is, we aren't keeping our foes in line, but we are causing great anxiety among our friends. We are the only game in town, and we won't play.
If the Senate has its way, there will be an empty space where the United States ought to be. International politics, like nature, abhors a vacuum. Sooner or later, it will have to be filled.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (73%); FRANCE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (73%); FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORLD WAR I (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



396 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Life Lessons

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Life 101: Useful Skills for College and Beyond" (front page, Oct. 15) rightly focuses on the critical need for practical life skills. But all students, not just the college-bound, need these skills -- from conflict management to child care to financial acumen to nutrition.
These are all a part of both private and public education through family and consumer sciences classes -- sometimes called family studies, consumer economics, human development or life skills classes -- and are offered at most junior and senior high schools in the United States. 
 We need to support life-applied education before college age. These classes help build individual capacity, strong families and engage communities.
 
CAROL L. ANDERSON
Ithaca, N.Y., Oct. 15, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); FAMILY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



397 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: CONDE NAST BUILDING;
America's Square

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In his critique of the new Conde Nast Building in Manhattan "A Tower That Flaunts Its Contradictions," Sept. 26 , Herbert Muschamp articulates a standard "high art" position that Times Square, the greatest commercial public space in America, "represents a blurring of the boundary between art and commerce and a sacrifice of the idea that architecture is also a medium for conveying truths about the urban condition." We think Mr. Muschamp is wrong in looking for the good guys and bad guys on Times Square.
As we enter the 21st century, the urban condition is defined more and more by tourism, leisure and consumption, the hallmark of an evolved capitalist society wherein economic affluence allows personal freedom to seek pleasure. The consumption of goods and experiences is how our society defines itself, albeit with the help of all those "awful" signs, symbols and advertising. Times Square, in these terms, has always been reflective of the urban condition, even in its derelict state, when it mirrored the decline of established urban centers. It is the essence of what our culture is about. 
 Mr. Muschamp implies that civic expression can be corrupted by the dollar and personal gain. This is true if your model for civic space is the imposed order of a supposedly neutral, government-financed Place de la Concorde, National Mall or the esthetically correct lighting of the New York skyline. But if your model is the cultural mish-mash of the everyday landscape, then commerce is the very glue -- visually, socially and economically -- of American civic space.
 
SUSAN NIGRA SNYDER
STEVEN IZENOUR
Philadelphia
 
The writers teach in the department of architecture of the Graduate School of Fine Arts at the University of Pennsylvania. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CITIES (76%); CONSUMPTION (74%); WRITERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: IZENOUR, STEVEN; SNYDER, SUSAN NIGRA HERBERT MUSCHAMP (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



398 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Reality Bytes

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Is this a story we will read sometime in the next year?
NEW YORK (NYT) -- The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 1,266 points today after Amazon.com announced that it had inadvertently made a profit. 
 After years of having persuaded investors that its business model called for it to consistently lose money until it had built up its market share, Amazon stunned Wall Street by announcing earnings of 1 cent per share this quarter on sales of $1.1 trillion, or 10 percent of U.S. G.D.P.
The reason these earnings rattled Wall Street was that investors began to realize that no matter how big Amazon's market share became its profit margins were going to remain razor thin because it is now competing with everyone -- not just booksellers. And therefore its market capitalization -- the company is valued at more than Fort Knox -- was simply not sustainable.
"Pie in the sky is always great as long as the pie remains in the sky," said one Wall Street broker, "but when the pie actually comes down to earth and you get to see what a real slice looks like -- well, you have a problem. Amazon's whole strategy was to keep the pie in the sky. But now they've blown it by accidentally making a profit."
The Seattle-based Internet retailer issued a statement following its quarterly earnings report, saying: "The Amazon board wants to apologize to shareholders for completely missing its quarterly loss target and inadvertently making a profit. The board has been assured by management that this problem will be rectified in the coming quarter. Amazon intends to increase both its advertising budget and the number of books it will sell at a loss to insure that it returns to unprofitability by the next quarter. Our shareholders can rest assured that our primary goal remains market share and our business motto remains: 'Amazon.com: We took the 'E' out of P/E.' "
Said one Wall Street Internet analyst: "Look, I believe the Internet changes everything. I've taken the Kool-Aid. But I think the question of whether Jeff Bezos Amazon's founder will ever make the massive profits that his stock price implies is really uncertain."
It will depend on at least three things, the analyst said. The first is, Are Amazon's competitors dead or are they just behind? Has Mr. Bezos killed Wal-Mart, Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Borders, Toys "R" Us and Circuit City -- all of which he is now competing against? Or, has he just showed them the power of the Internet as a retailing tool and all these brick-and-mortar companies will now become clicks and bricks?
"If that is the case," the analyst said, "all Amazon will have done is to build market share for the day when its rivals catch up. If it hasn't made money up to now, with its huge head start on the Internet, how is it going to make big money when the others catch up? The cost of switching from Amazon to another retailer is zero on the Internet. It's just one click. Wal-Mart hasn't even come into cyberspace in any serious way yet -- and those guys are meaner than junk-yard dogs. You think they're going to let Amazon just put them out of business? No way."
The second thing Amazon's future depends on, said this analyst, is what inning we are in. If we are still in the first inning as far as Internet retailing is concerned, maybe Amazon, or another Amazon soon to be born, will come up with yet another innovation for using the Internet to sell things at a profit. But if we are already in, say, the fifth inning, if the basic Internet revolution in retailing is now in place and the rest is just execution, then the Wal-Marts will eventually learn to execute. Amazon might still be a winner -- it is a phenomenal marketer -- but not a winner-take-all.
The third unknown, the analyst said, is whether Amazon can use its high stock price to buy one or more already profitable brick-and-mortar retailer in order to go head to head with Wal-Mart. At first people thought all business was moving to the Net; now they see that the Net is moving into business. The next big merger wave will be between virtual companies and real ones.
"I swear, I thought Bezos' actual plan was to skip making a profit and go directly from being an I.P.O. to being an N.G.O. for distributing books cheaply," said another analyst. "I don't know what Amazon's future is as a company -- but as a charity, wow! What a write-off machine! It could have been called 'Unicef.com.' Really, who's given away more kids' books at cost than Amazon? Bezos had a chance to be Andrew Carnegie -- without ever making a dime. Now he's blown it by making a profit and forcing everyone to look at Amazon like, well, a real company. I mean, who needs that?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (84%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



399 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: OCTOBER 11 - OCTOBER 15;
Markets Turn to Mush in Tumultuous Week

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
Sometimes it is best to close the shutters, turn off the lights and call it a day, or so it seemed on Friday as overwrought investors punished stocks in Asia, Europe and the United States, then headed for cover.
 To be sure, investors had a lot on their minds in a week that saw a military coup in Pakistan, the United States Senate's rejection of a nuclear test ban treaty and a warning from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, on the risk of rising share prices. 
 To top it off, on Friday, a report showed that wholesale prices in the United States surged 1.1 percent in September, the largest monthly increase in nine years.
 "The first whammy was Greenspan's speech, the second was the inflation report," John Hatherly, head of research at M & G Investment Management in London, told Bloomberg News. "Now," he said, "investors are worried that the Fed may raise rates even before its Nov. 16 meeting."
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 6 percent at 10,019.71, ending some 1,300 points below its Aug. 25 record close. For one brief moment on Friday, the Dow dipped below 10,000. Other markets plummeted as well. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Raytheon
nyse: rtn/b
Less than a month after warning that earnings would be lower than expected, the military contractor reduced its forecast again. It said sales would grow 3 per-cent this year and next, half its earlier forecast.
Friday's Close -- $26.625
Week's Change -- -38.79%
EST. '99 P/E -- 9.74
 
Psion
otc: psiof
The Palm Computing unit of 3Com entered a part-nership with Symbian, a joint venture of the wireless phone makers Psion, Nokia, Motorola, Ericsson and Matsushita, to create a standard for wireless Internet access.
Friday's Close -- $23.50
Week's Change -- +8.67%
EST. '99 P/E -- 338.34
 
Tyco International
nyse: tyc
Shares of the electronic components maker plunged after a report by David W. Tice, a Dallas fund manager, said its earnings were inflated. Tyco's chief executive called the report false and baseless.
Friday's Close -- $88.25
Week's Change -- -17.14%
EST. '99 P/E -- 29.12
 
Knight/Trimark
nnm: nite
The company, the biggest Nasdaq market maker, said its third-quarter income would rise less than analysts had forecast because of fewer trades from Internet brokers, its main customers.
Friday's Close -- $22.00
Week's Change -- -26.63%
EST. '99 P/E -- 18.11
 
Authentic Fitness
nyse: asm
The Warnaco Group offered to buy this maker of Speedo swimwear for $412 million in cash. Warnaco, an apparel maker with labels like Ralph Lauren, made an unsuccessful bid for Authentic Fitness in 1996.
Friday's Close -- $19.4375
Week's Change -- +10.68%
EST. '99 P/E -- 13.41
 
Unisys
nyse: uis
The technology company said revenue in the third quarter had increased by 4 percent, to $1.87 billion, a figure below investors' expectations. Without currency fluctuations, it said, revenue would have risen 7 percent.
Friday's Close -- $24.875
Week's Change -- -43.06%
EST. '99 P/E -- 16.41
 
Iona Technologies
nnm: iona (A.D.R.'s)
The Irish company, which makes software programs that allow computers to interact, said third-quarter net income was 12 cents a diluted share, excluding a charge. It was expected to earn 10 cents a share.
Friday's Close -- $24.4375
Week's Change -- +57.66%
EST. '99 P/E -- 85.15
 
Abercrombie & Fitch
nyse: anf
The retailing chain announced that sales in stores open more than one year were up just 12 percent for the current fiscal quarter to date. So-called whisper estimates for same-store sales had been 15 to 17 percent.
Friday's Close -- $24.375
Week's Change -- -28.31%
EST. '99 P/E -- 18.38
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM M & G INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ATOMIC WEAPONS COUPS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); WHOLESALE PRICES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); APPAREL MFG (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: MEECE, MICKEY; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (87%); RALPH LAUREN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999



400 of 732 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Report Calls for New Focus On Aid for Minority Students

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
A task force of prominent educators has found that the performance gap between black, Hispanic and Native American students and their white and Asian counterparts persists across the socioeconomic spectrum, from kindergarten through graduate school, according to a report being released today.
After decades of discussion about the most economically and educationally disadvantaged students, the College Board's National Task Force on Minority High Achievement has collected the results of an array of research showing that even in middle-class suburbs and elite colleges, African-Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans lag behind, failing to make the honor roll or earn similar plaudits in proportion to non-Hispanic whites and Asians. 
 In sounding the alarm, the task force calls for a strategy of "affirmative development" that would emphasize minority performance at all levels rather than focus on enrollment in colleges and universities. The College Board plans to spend up to $10 million in the next decade researching and replicating programs that produce high-achieving black and Hispanic students.
"Chronic underachievement among minority students is one of the most critical problems facing our country today," said Gaston Caperton, president of the College Board, a national association of educational institutions that administers the SAT and other standardized tests. "It is particularly troubling because we are not just talking about disadvantaged youngsters. Even minority students from relatively wealthy families with well-educated parents do not typically perform as well as white and Asian students from similar backgrounds."
Among the most significant findings in the report, which defines minority students as black, Hispanic or Native American, as opposed to whites and Asian-Americans, are these:
*Only 10 percent of the 4th-, 8th- and 12th-grade students who scored at the highest level on the National Assessment of Educational Progress tests in reading, math and science were minorities.
*Minorities earned only 13 percent of the nation's bachelor's degrees, 11 percent of professional degrees and 6 percent of the doctoral degrees in 1995, when they made up about 30 percent of the under-18 population.
*At mainstream colleges and universities, minorities earn significantly lower grades than white and Asian students who scored similarly on entrance exams.
*An education gender gap is particularly acute among minorities: Over all, men earned 45 percent of all bachelor's degrees in the mid-1990's, but among black students, only 36 percent were awarded to men.
"These differences in educational outcomes contribute to large disparities in life chances," says the report, called "Reaching the Top." Noting that minorities will make up 40 percent of Americans under 18 by 2030, it adds, "The rapid changes that are taking place in the racial and ethnic composition of the nation bring a new sense of urgency to this work."
The recommendations are broad and somewhat vague, but the task force members, who include Henry Louis Gates Jr., head of the Afro-American Studies Department of Harvard University, and James P. Comer, of Yale University, an expert on children, lend a seriousness to the work. The 31-member group is headed by Edmund W. Gordon, a Yale professor emeritus of psychology, and Eugene H. Cota-Robles, professor emeritus of biology at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
The report calls on high schools and elementary schools to share information on programs that improve minority achievement, and urges collaboration between minority colleges and mainstream institutions as well as between community colleges and four-year schools.
For colleges, the task force recommends that officials not only look at grades and class rank, but also at course selection and research projects. It says financial aid should be geared to high achievement rather than just graduation.
At the elementary and secondary levels, the task force urges the Department of Education and individual districts to make high achievement among minorities a top priority in both research and public policy. The report also calls for an expansion of supplementary education opportunities, like math clubs and science fairs, to serve minorities and asks businesses and foundations to devote money to these programs.
The report highlights several examples where minorities have achieved greater success, including a program at the University of Maryland that recruits top black math students, and one at the University of California at Davis that gives extra support to biology majors. Both resulted in unusual numbers of minorities graduating with honors.
"If we can do it in biology in one place and in math in another place," Mr. Cota-Robles said in an interview, "can we find ways to replicate it?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (US); INDIANS, AMERICAN; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ASIAN-AMERICANS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ETHNICITY (73%); GENDER EQUALITY (64%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999

 
