

601 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: A Down Day, but the First Winning Week of This Year

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Disappointing growth in the nation's gross domestic product pushed stocks lower yesterday, even as investors welcomed a merger of Procter & Gamble and Gillette. 
 Despite the losses, the major indexes eked out their first winning week of 2005.
 While investors were cheered by P.&G.'s bid for Gillette and strong profit from Microsoft, surprisingly weak economic data robbed the markets of any buying momentum. The Commerce Department reported that the G.D.P. -- the value of all goods and services produced in the United States -- rose at an annual rate of just 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the lowest gain in seven quarters. Economists had expected a 3.5 percent rise. 
 Amid uncertainties like the elections in Iraq tomorrow, a Federal Reserve meeting beginning Tuesday and the Labor Department's monthly job creation report due next Friday, investors used the G.D.P. figure as another reason to sell stocks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 40.20 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,427.20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 3.19 points, or 0.3 percent, at 1,171.36, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 11.32 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,035.83.
 The market finally paid attention to strong earnings and generally positive economic data over the last week, resulting in a strong two-day rally midweek. However, anxiety over the Iraqi elections and the G.D.P. number erased much of those gains.
 The major indexes were barely positive for the week. The Dow rose 0.33 percent, the S.&P. 500 was up 0.3 percent and the Nasdaq climbed a meager 0.08 percent. 
 Wall Street had expected the economy to slow somewhat from the 4 percent annual pace posted in the third quarter of 2004, but yesterday's G.D.P. reading showed far more of a slowdown than analysts had predicted. That raised concerns about profit growth for future quarters as well as the health of the labor market.
 The Federal Reserve is scheduled to meet on Tuesday and Wednesday, and is widely expected to raise the benchmark interest rate to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent. Slower economic growth could keep the Fed from a more aggressive rate policy.
 ''I definitely think the G.D.P. backdrop is troubling,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''I thought a 3.5 percent increase was in the bag. Now we'll see what the Federal Reserve thinks next week.''
 Procter & Gamble's bid for Gillette would create a consumer products maker with a wide swath of brand names in health care products, food and other consumer staples. P.&G. dropped $1.17, to $54.15, on the news, while Gillette surged $5.92, or 13 percent, to $51.60.
 Merck plunged $3.16, or 10 percent, to $28.02 after a federal court ruled that the drug maker would lose patent protection on Fosamax, its second-best-selling drug, in 2008 instead of 2018. Regulators also announced a formal investigation of Merck's marketing of Vioxx.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 18/32, to a price of 10028/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.14 percent from 4.21 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (84%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (80%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (84%); PG (NYSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (84%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005



602 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Live, From Willimantic, It's School on Stage

BYLINE: By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
A GROUP of teenagers creates masks, while two classmates video-record a rolling skateboard for a short film. Another group prepares for a ballet class in a studio, while other students hone their creative writing skills in a classroom.
 This eclectic mix of activity is taking place at ACT, the Arts at the Capitol Theater magnet high school on Main Street in Willimantic. The students there have already spent a full school day studying geometry, English, chemistry and foreign languages at one of a dozen northeastern Connecticut high schools and traveled as much as an hour before arriving at ACT every Monday through Thursday. 
 Still, they arrive about 2 p.m. chattering and smiling as they face three hours more of singing, acting, designing costumes, creating stage props and learning a host of other performing arts skills.
 ''We get to do what we love here,'' said Scott Cooke, 16, a junior who lives in Marlborough.
 Another student, Ali Perlwitz, 15, a sophomore from Putnam, said she won't get home until 6:30 p.m. or 7 p.m., but enjoys attending classes at ACT where her classmates all share her passion for the performing arts.
 ''We love it here and we like each other,'' she said.
 The 52 students at the half-day magnet school in its first year of operation in the renovated vaudeville-era theater see the school as a way to live their love. Local officials, educators and artists see the $13 million state-funded school building project as a cornerstone in a downtown revitalization plan that focuses on reshaping the city to an arts destination at a time it is also struggling with a reputation as an area where illegal drug use and its associated social ills are prevalent.
 ''From the beginning we saw this as a way to both provide services to kids and to revitalize Main Street,'' said David Calchera, who helped spearhead the move to establish the magnet school in the crumbling former Capitol Theater that had stood empty for 30 years. ''We always said we could probably build this school anywhere else for cheaper, but that it really needed to be in the middle of a vital, diverse community. This was the most dramatic renovation to happen on Main Street in 80 years.''
 Mr. Calchera retired in December after serving as director of the regional public school service agency EastConn since 1980. He also had been Willimantic's mayor in the early 1970's, before the city consolidated its government with the town of Windham. 
 EastConn, which works with schools and communities to develop and support education and training opportunities for students, owns and operates ACT. 
 ''The arts in this community are a lot stronger than many people realize,'' Jane Bance Homick, who heads the Windham Area Arts Collaborative said. ''What's happened in the last year or two is already meteoric and now we're looking ahead. There's so much untapped here.''
 The collaborative is made up of more than 50 individual visual and performing artist members, as well as 17 organizations such as Eastern Connecticut State University, the University of Connecticut and the William Benton Museum of Art. It has operated studio space and a gallery on Main Street since 2001, participates in the popular Third Thursday street festivals that attract thousands to the city each summer and sponsors arts-oriented events like performing arts coffee houses that begin this month, Ms. Homick said. 
 ACT is the most recent addition to a growing arts and cultural community that also includes the collaborative; the Windham Theatre Guild that stages dinner theater, summer musicals and Shakespearean plays in a renovated former bank; and the Windham Textile and History Museum. A $12 million renovation of a former American Thread Company mill building is also underway to create 55 apartments and studios for artists, said State Representative Walter M. Pawelkiewicz.
 He and other officials and artists said the largely rural region is already home to many artists and the small urban center in Willimantic offers a culturally and ethnically diverse community where real estate is cheaper than in many other Connecticut cities. 
 The city formed an arts and entertainment district in 1999, said Mr. Pawelkiewicz, who was first selectman at the time. A city master plan identified renovation of the 35,000-square-foot art deco-style Capitol Theater, which had been closed since 1973, as a top priority, he said.
 The current first selectman, Michael Paulhus, said the city received a $175,000 state grant in 1998 to buy the shuttered theater where generations of residents watched movies. The city's redevelopment agency later sold the building for $1 to EastConn, he said.
 ''This made the best sense,'' he said of renovating the theater as a magnet school. ''It is now a draw for students from the entire region.''
 Mr. Calchera and John Mayer, ACT principal, said the school offered programs students will not find at their home high schools. That is why students are eager to spend four afternoons a week at ACT after completing classes at their hometown schools and traveling from Colchester, Putnam, Stafford, Chaplin, Plainfield and other towns, they said.
 ''In northeastern Connecticut, when the arts were disappearing from school curriculums, I always knew there were kids who had a yen for this,'' Mr. Calchera said.
 Besides Mr. Mayer, who has worked as a mime, puppeteer and arts teacher, the school employs 12 part-time instructors who are also professionals in fields ranging from dance and stage diction to videography and set design. The school features four performance rooms, including a 200-seat theater, as well a storefront gallery and cafe.
 Several school districts provided buses and EastConn provided vans to transport students to ACT each afternoon, while parents often pick their students up at the end of the day, Mr. Mayer said. 
 Although ACT is a public school, many students pay tuition. The state covers just $4,000 of the $7,000 annual cost per student, and local districts pay varying portions of the balance, Mr. Mayer said. Windham is the only district that pays the entire cost for its students, he said. 
 Some scholarships are available and EastConn is currently raising funds to establish a larger scholarship fund, Mr. Mayer said.
 ''We have to build the support from the local school boards from scratch,'' Mr. Calchera said.
 Those who worked to establish the school and see it as integral in Willimantic's revival said they are confident that positive word will spread both about the school and the city.
 ''The school is a tremendous opportunity for us to showcase Willimantic to other towns,'' Mr. Pawelkiewicz said.
 Mr. Mayer said thousands of local residents toured ACT during last October's Third Thursday festival and Mr. Paulhus recalled that residents were lined up down the sidewalk waiting to tour the school during the festival.
 ''We're working very hard to change the image of the city,'' he said. ''We are saying: 'You come and experience this for yourself.' We want to dispel the notion that this is not the place to be because we think it is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Drama is one performing art focused on after a full day of school elsewhere for students at Arts at the Capitol Theater magnet high school.
The Capitol Theater had been vacant 30 years before ACT moved in as part of the $13 million state-financed school building project. The school is a cornerstone in Willimantic's downtown revitalization.
 Bridget Loree of Windham, far left, Kelsey Strom of Hebron and Naysha Soto of Windham during a dance quiz. They are among the 52 students who attend the school for three hours, four days a week. (Photographs by M.J. Fielder for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BALLET (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); MAYORS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (50%) Theater; Education and Schools; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Historic Buildings and Sites; Theaters (Buildings)

ORGANIZATION: ACT (93%)

PERSON: Gail Braccidiferro

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Willimantic (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



603 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; ADVISORY: TRAVEL NOTES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Giant Airbus A380 Creates Extra Decorating Space

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
When European leaders gathered earlier this month in Toulouse, France, to christen the Airbus A380, they gazed reverently at the mammoth fuselage. But there was little for them to see inside, since the plane had yet to be fitted out. 
 That will change soon, as Airbus installs seats and cabins for Singapore Airlines, the first carrier scheduled to put the aircraft into service, in mid-2006. 
 Like most airlines, Singapore is keeping its design plans close to the vest. Of all the ways the A380 will change air travel, the look and feel of its cabin may make the strongest impression.
 While the new Airbus will have only 35 percent more seats than a standard Boeing 747, it will have 49 percent more floor space. That translates into more room per passenger.
 Airbus has dangled tantalizing possibilities about how the carriers could use all that space. Spas, duty-free shops, bars and lounges figure prominently in the marketing pitch, though analysts dismiss many of these visions as commercially unviable flights of fancy.
 Still, some carriers seem determined to break new ground in comfort, particularly since the A380 will fly the world's longest routes. 
 ''We want to create the elegance of a cruise liner at 40,000 feet,'' said the managing director of Malaysia Airlines, Ahmad Fuaad Dahlan.
 While the Malaysians are seeking elegance, Virgin Atlantic Airways seems eager to create a flying playground. Sir Richard Branson, the founder, said he wanted to equip his A380's with fitness centers, beauty salons, casinos and more double beds in first class.
 Promises of high-altitude luxury may run headlong into the economic rationale for the A380, which is its ability to haul 555 or more passengers. Air France said the plane would enable it to trim its number of daily flights between Paris and New York to three, from the current four to six, depending on the day.
 That is particularly valuable on long-haul routes between Asia and Europe or Asia and the United States, where, for reasons of the time difference, flights take off and land in narrow time periods. 
 The plane will also help the carriers squeeze the most out of airports like those in London and Tokyo, which suffer from a dire shortage of landing slots and runways.
 Airports will bear the imprint of the A380 in other ways, through investments in wider taxiways, double-deck loading ramps and larger immigration and baggage facilities. For example, Heathrow, which serves London, is spending $842 million to bulk up for its oversize new tenant.
 By 2023, Heathrow will have more A380's landing and taking off than any other airport in the world, Airbus says. By 2016, the aircraft could account for one in every eight flights at Heathrow. This could enable nearly 10 million more passengers to fly to and from the airport without an increase in flights.
 The Airbus A380 will enter commercial service at Heathrow in the summer of 2006; test flights at the airport are scheduled to begin later this year. 
 MARK LANDLER


GRAPHIC: Photo: Airbus employees at the unveiling this month of the 555-passenger A380 in Toulouse, France. (Photo by Jean-Philippe Arles/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%); CRUISES (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (68%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (85%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); MALAYSIA AIRLINE SYSTEM BDH (67%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%); BOEING CO (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Singapore Airlines; Airbus Industrie

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (53%); AF (AMS) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (53%) Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (93%) FRANCE (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



604 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: January 30, 2005; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1289 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 1		1	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	 	 2	1	96	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a centuries-old secret society.		 	 	 	 3	2	69	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died while trying to rescue a little girl from danger discovers that all will be explained to him in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 4	4	6	STATE OF FEAR, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) Reverse eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public that global warming is real.		 	 	 	 5	3	2	CHAINFIRE, by Terry Goodkind. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) The 10th volume of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series.		 	 	 	 6	6	2	UNEXPECTED BLESSINGS, by Barbara Taylor Bradford. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Continuing the story of the Harte family and its financial empire, told through four generations of women.		 	 	 	 7	5	3	BY ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer tries to thwart a terrorist plot to crash a stolen 727 into the Liberty Bell.		 	 	 	 8	7	8	NIGHT FALL, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.95.) A husband and wife who work for an antiterrorism task force reopen the investigation into the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 over the Atlantic, off Long Island, in 1996.		 	 	 	 9		1	ALONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $24.) A sniper with the Massachusetts State Police faces a wrongful-death lawsuit -- and a killer who's on the loose.		 	 	 	 10	9	2	ENTOMBED, by Linda Fairstein. (Scribner, $26.) Alexandra Cooper, a Manhattan assistant district attorney, searches for the Silk Stocking Rapist and probes a murder case involving Edgar Allan Poe.		 	 	 	 11	11	2	AFTERBURN, by Zane. (Atria, $24.95.) A chiropractor becomes enamored of a beautiful woman who works at a bank in Washington. 		 	 	 	 12	8	7	*BLACK WIND, by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler. (Putnam, $27.95.) Dirk Pitt and his children confront a villain who has acquired biotoxins from World War II.		 	 	 	 13	10	7	A SALTY PIECE OF LAND, by Jimmy Buffett. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) A cowboy's life is changed forever when a 101-year-old woman hires him to be a lighthouse keeper in the Bahamas. 		 	 	 	 14	15	3	THE CAT WHO WENT BANANAS, by Lilian Jackson Braun. (Putnam, $23.95.) Jim Qwilleran and his cats investigate the suspicious death of an actor.		 	 	 	 15	13	10	I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS, by Tom Wolfe. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28.95.) A very smart, very innocent freshman from the Blue Ridge Mountains is amazed by what she finds at a prestigious university.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 1	1	2	WITNESS, by Amber Frey. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the California massage therapist who testified for the prosecution in the murder trial of Scott Peterson. 		 	 	 	 2		1	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 3	2	17	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook. 		 	 	 	 4	3	3	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail. 		 	 	 	 5	4	12	HIS EXCELLENCY, by Joseph J. Ellis. (Knopf, $26.95.) A biography of George Washington, by the author of ''Founding Brothers.'' 		 	 	 	 6		1	*WINNING THE FUTURE, by Newt Gingrich. (Regnery, $27.95.) The former speaker of the House proposes a 21st-century ''Contract With America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 7	5	41	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $17.50.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	 	 8	7	14	WHEN WILL JESUS BRING THE PORK CHOPS? by George Carlin. (Hyperion, $23.95.) Another volume of observations and opinions from the stand-up comedian.		 	 	 	 9	6	15	CHRONICLES: Volume One, by Bob Dylan. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Recollections and observations from the singer-songwriter. 		 	 	 	 10		1	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Scribner, $25.) How autism can help lead to an understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals. 		 	 	 	 11		1	GOD'S POLITICS, by Jim Wallis. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) An evangelical Christian argues that Democrats must ''take back the faith'' and not allow conservative Republicans to hijack the Bible. (+)		 	 	 	 12		1	102 MINUTES, by Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn. (Times Books/Holt, $26.) Two journalists at The New York Times describe people's struggle to survive inside the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. 		 	 	 	 13	10	15	HOW TO TALK TO A LIBERAL (IF YOU MUST), by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $26.95.) A collection of the columnist's writings about what's wrong with liberals. 		 	 	 	 14	8	8	FAITHFUL, by Stewart O'Nan and Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.) Two novelists -- and die-hard Boston Red Sox fans -- chronicle the 2004 championship season, from spring training to the World Series.		 	 	 	 15	9	2	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Berrett-Koehler, $24.95.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 15, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

PREP, by Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $21.95.) A scholarship girl at a nifty prep school is thrust into a world of privilege in this novel.

THE FAMILY TREE, by Carole Cadwalladr. (Dutton, $23.95.) Three generations of a wacky English family clash in an ambitious novel whose comic action doesn't stay comic.

A COMPLICATED KINDNESS, by Miriam Toews. (Counterpoint, $23.) A novel told by a girl mismatched in a Manitoba Mennonite town.

VANISHING POINT: The Disappearance of Judge Crater, and the New York He Left Behind, by Richard J. Tofel. (Ivan R. Dee, $24.95.) The megamystery of 1930, still unsolved, linked to a study of the era's corrupt machine politics.

JACK FISH, by J. Milligan. (Soho, $23.) A comic thriller about a hit man with webbed feet who usually lives underwater; the author's first novel.

EPILEPTIC, by David B. (Pantheon, $25.) Always something new from France! This memoir in graphic form about an elder brother's affliction is also a graphic cultural and intellectual history, given iconographies by the artist.

STONEWALL: The Riots That Sparked the Gay Revolution, by David Carter. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A reconstruction of the street events of 1969 that followed a police attack on a gay bar.

THE INTIMATE WORLD OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, by C. A. Tripp. (Free Press, $27.) The case that Lincoln was gay, plausibly presented.

V. S. PRITCHETT: A Working Life, by Jeremy Treglown. (Random House, $25.95.) How a great 20th-century English short-story writer and brilliant critic passed for a regular member of the lowish middle class.

TRAWLER, by Redmond O'Hanlon. (Knopf, $25.) To sea with a fishing crew in the dreadful North Atlantic, by a bookish Briton who likes to risk his neck now and then.

SEVEN TYPES OF AMBIGUITY, by Elliot Perlman. (Riverhead, $27.95.) An Australian novel so large in its concept of fiction's grasp on the world it takes seven narrators just to tell it.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); CATS (74%); ECOTERRORISM (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (72%); DEATHS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (69%); ARMIES (68%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); MURDER (57%); NATURAL DISASTERS (53%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (73%); DAN BROWN (56%); MITCH ALBOM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); BAHAMAS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



605 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: As Land Goes to Revitalization, There Go the Old Neighbors

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn., Jan. 17 

 BODY:
On a good day, Matt Dery can see Fishers Island, off the tip of Long Island, from his kitchen window here at the mouth of the Thames River. The view is one thing he loves about his home, and one reason he wants to stay.
 But what Mr. Dery, his aged parents in the house next door, or the handful of other owners who still live nearby, cannot see is how long they will be able to stay here. Legally, their properties have belonged to the City of New London for four years. The city used its power of eminent domain to take their homes and some 90 other nearby properties in the hope of attracting new development, including improved housing and wealthier people.
 ''I think they don't want to have to look at us,'' said Mr. Dery's neighbor, Susette Kelo, a nurse who lives in a little pink cottage. 
 There are nine holdouts in the city's Fort Trumbull section, dozens of cases in the New York region and dozens more around the country in which property owners are fighting local governments to hang on to their homes and businesses. The municipalities want the land for new developments to revitalize communities and bring in higher taxes. But it is the case in New London that is scheduled to be heard next month, when the United States Supreme Court hears arguments in Kelo v. New London.
 In Highland Park, N.J., the owners of a photography studio fear that a plan to redevelop Raritan Avenue, the main street in town, will force them out of a location they have occupied for 25 years. In Port Chester, N.Y., a small furniture plant is fighting a state development agency that wants its site for a Home Depot parking lot. And in town after town, people of modest means, often members of minority groups, complain that they are being moved to make way for people who either have more money or, in some cases, lighter skin. 
 The issue that binds them -- whether a municipality can take someone's property through eminent domain and hand it over to developers in the name of economic development -- will be aired on Feb. 22, when lawyers for Mr. Dery, Ms. Kelo and other New London holdouts have their day before the United States Supreme Court.
 The issue is particularly fraught in the Northeast, where two trends have intersected to sharpen the struggle between the deeply held values of individual property rights and the public benefits of bringing aging neighborhoods back to life. One is the scarcity of suburban land available for development, as local communities and state governments organize to prevent sprawl and developers turn their eyes to the cities. 
 The other is the need for the region's aging small towns and cities to rebuild their tax bases, lest they sink deeper into poverty and abandonment. 
 ''With eminent domain we can now get a large tract of land and bring back to the urban centers the retail, the shopping centers, the office parks,'' said Thomas Londregan, New London's city attorney. ''Or do we have to wait for our urban areas to deteriorate and decay into blight before we get the blessing to try to help ourselves? I hope not.''
 The courts, including the Supreme Court, have generally supported Mr. Londregan's argument that economic growth amounts to an overriding public benefit. But now an odd alliance of conservative and libertarian property rights campaigners and civil rights advocates are hoping that the Supreme Court's decision to hear the New London case could signal a shift. The case is an appeal by the New London residents of a unanimous decision last year by s the Connecticut Supreme Court upholding the city's condemnation rights. 
 Dana Berliner, a lawyer with the Institute for Justice, a libertarian group, and perhaps the country's leading opponent of the use of eminent domain for economic development, has counted nearly 40 cases of private land condemned or slated for condemnation for private development in Connecticut. There are more than 60 each in New York and New Jersey, and many more across the rest of the country, she said.
 Ms. Berliner notes that the Fifth Amendment prohibits the taking of private property for public use without just compensation; this, she argues, does not mean that property may be taken for economic development.
 ''The Constitution says public use, not public welfare, not public benefits,'' she said in an interview. ''And for many years eminent domain was used for exactly the kinds of thing you would think, like roads and irrigation.''
 But in the 1950's the power of eminent domain was used for slum clearance. Ms. Berliner said she believed that that opened the door to its widespread use as an economic development tool. Since the logic of economic development anywhere is to lift property from a low-economic use to a higher economic use, the trend favors the well-to-do, she said.
 ''It is usually an effort to go from lower to middle class, and from middle to upper class,'' Ms. Berliner went on. ''It is almost always an attempt to replace poorer people with richer people and middle income businesses with upscale businesses.''
 In New York City, the Empire State Development Corporation used its powers of eminent domain to assemble a portion of the property at Eighth Avenue and West 40th Street for construction of a new headquarters for The New York Times Company.
 In New Jersey, Ken Goldman, a lawyer with the South Jersey Legal Aid Society, is trying to rebuff an effort to displace families in Ventnor from a multiblock section of the city to build multifamily homes, arguing that the civil rights of its largely Latino residents are being violated. City officials say they will use eminent domain only as a last resort. 
 ''In New Jersey,'' Mr. Goldman said, ''because of the scarcity of land and restrictions of growth, more and more municipalities are turning inward for redevelopment, and the people being affected most are in the lower-income sections. Redevelopment for them means a ticket out of town.'' 
 Mrs. Kelo and the New London holdouts are being supported by the N.A.A.C.P., the A.A.R.P., and several other groups, who have submitted briefs to the court. On the other side, 31 state municipal leagues have signed a brief supporting the city of New London.
 In the Northeast, the pressure to condemn for redevelopment appears to be particularly advanced along rivers or ocean shoreline, whether here on the banks of the Thames, or along the Delaware in the Cramer Hill section of Camden, N.J., where 1,200 families are facing the condemnation of their homes for economic development. This affinity of developers for projects with views like Mr. Dery's strikes Ms. Berliner as particularly unfair.
 ''If you live near water or if you have a good view, you are really going to be under pressure to move,'' Ms. Berliner said. ''It's like the poor don't deserve to have a nice view.''
 The officials leading the fight in New London are frank, saying they hope to attract higher-income professionals to the Fort Trumbull area where Mr. Dery, who is the home delivery manager for The New London Day, and his remaining neighbors live. 
 The city is a blighted area by state designation and half of its property is tax-exempt; much of its old frame housing dates from the early 20th century and is second rate; and an already high unemployment rate worsened in 1996 when the Naval Undersea Warfare Center moved to another town, taking 1,400 jobs with it.
 The city saw a chance to rebound shortly after that, when the Pfizer pharmaceutical company built a $350 million research center along the Thames below Fort Trumbull, a mid-19th century installation used by troops during the Civil War. The city and state governments have since created a new park around the fort, opened the riverfront to public access for the first time in years, filled in a flood plain and cleaned up the Navy's asbestos-riddled site. Now it wants new homes for new people to fill the riverfront blocks around the fort.
 And not just any housing, and not just any people either.
 ''We need to get housing at the upper end, for people like the Pfizer employees,'' said Ed O'Connell, the lawyer for the New London Development Corporation, the city's redevelopment arm. ''They are the professionals, they are the ones with the expertise and the leadership qualities to remake the city -- the young urban professionals who will invest in New London, put their kids in school, and think of this as a place to stay for 20 or 30 years.''
 The nondescript frame and brick buildings of the holdouts look all the more forlorn among the empty lots where their neighbors once stood. One by one, residents have been moving out and their homes have been razed. Mr. Dery, Ms. Kelo and the other holdouts say they would be delighted to have an affluent new world grow up around their old houses, as long as they can stay.
 But developers want open space, Mr. O'Connell said, not a checkerboard of old and new to work around, and particularly not the few old houses that remain in Fort Trumbull.
 ''You're not going to get a developer to put a $10 million development next to some of these houses,'' he said on a tour of the area recently.
 For Mr. Dery's parents, the prospect of moving is particularly burdensome. The family owns four properties and the city has told them it will pay them half a million dollars for them. But Wilhelmina Dery, 87, was born in the house she lives in with her husband, Charles, who is 85. The offer is no consolation to her, said her son, Matt Dery.
 ''We get this all the time,'' he said:'''How much did they offer? What will it take?' My parents don't want to wake up rich tomorrow, they just want to wake up in their own house.''
 Mr. Londregan, the city's lawyer, realizes that it is hard for New London to make a generalized case for citywide improvement in the face of specific hardships for the people caught in the path of progress.
 ''You look around the urban centers in this country, and you read about how they need help,'' he said. ''But you may have to take somebody's home, and then what do you say to that little old lady, who's 87 years old, when it's time to move? That there is a greater good? That's a tough issue.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 30 about a legal challenge by property owners in New London, Conn., to the city's seizure of their land under its power of eminent domain misstated the proposed use for a site in Port Chester, N.Y., now occupied by a furniture plant. The plan is for a Costco store, not a Home Depot parking lot. The article also referred incorrectly to the government body behind the plan. It is a local development agency, not a state one.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed O'Connell, the lawyer for the redevelopment agency in New London, Conn., at the Thames River. New London is an officially blighted city.
 Susette Kelo, a nurse, does not want to leave her cottage in the Fort Trumbull section of New London, even though the city has seized it. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); SUBURBS (71%); TRENDS (70%); APPEALS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); FURNITURE MFG (50%) Eminent Domain; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (72%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (99%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New London (Conn); Northeastern States (US); New London (Conn); New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



606 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2410 words

HEADLINE: There Goes the Neighborhood

BYLINE: By Gregg Easterbrook. 
Gregg Easterbrook is an editor of The New Republic, a fellow of the Brookings Institution and the author, most recently, of ''The Progress Paradox.''

 BODY:

COLLAPSE
How Societies Choose
to Fail or Succeed.
By Jared Diamond.
Illustrated. 575 pp. Viking. $29.95.
 EIGHT years ago Jared Diamond realized what is, for authors, increasingly a fantasy -- he published a serious, challenging and complex book that became a huge commercial success. ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' won a Pulitzer Prize, then sold a million copies, astonishing for a 480-page volume of archeological speculation on how the world reached its present ordering of nations. Now he has written a sequel, ''Collapse,'' which asks whether present nations can last. Taken together, ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' and ''Collapse'' represent one of the most significant projects embarked upon by any intellectual of our generation. They are magnificent books: extraordinary in erudition and originality, compelling in their ability to relate the digitized pandemonium of the present to the hushed agrarian sunrises of the far past. I read both thinking what literature might be like if every author knew so much, wrote so clearly and formed arguments with such care. All of which makes the two books exasperating, because both come to conclusions that are probably wrong.
 ''Guns'' asked why the West is atop the food chain of nations. Its conclusion, that Western success was a coincidence driven by good luck, has proven extremely influential in academia, as the view is quintessentially postmodern. Now ''Collapse'' posits that the Western way of life is flirting with the sudden ruin that caused past societies like the Anasazi and the Mayans to vanish. Because this view, too, is exactly what postmodernism longs to hear, ''Collapse'' may prove influential as well. 
 Born in Boston in 1937, Diamond is a professor of geography at the University of California, Los Angeles. Initially he specialized in conservation biology, studying bird diversity in New Guinea; in 1985 he won one of the early MacArthur ''genius grants.'' Gradually he began to wonder why societies of the western Pacific islands never developed the metallurgy, farming techniques or industrial production of Eurasia. Diamond also studied the application of natural-selection theory to physiology, and in 1999 received a National Medal of Science for that work, which is partly reflected in his book ''Why Is Sex Fun?'' (Sex is fun; the book is serious.) Today Diamond often returns to the Pacific rim, especially Australia, where in the outback one may still hear the rustle of distant animal cries just as our forebears heard them in the far past. 
 ''Collapse'' may be read alone, but begins where ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' ended: essentially the two form a single 1,000-page book. The thesis of the first part is that environmental coincidences are the principal factor in human history. Diamond contends it was chance, not culture or brainpower, that brought industrial power first to Europe; Western civilization has nothing to boast about.
 Many arguments in ''Guns'' were dazzling. Diamond showed, for example, that as the last ice age ended, by chance Eurasia held many plants that could be bred for controlled farming. The Americas had few edible plants suitable for cross-breeding, while Africa had poor soil owing to the millions of years since it had been glaciated. Thus large-scale food production began first in the Fertile Crescent, China and Europe. Population in those places rose, and that meant lots of people living close together, which accelerated invention; in other locations the low-population hunter-gatherer lifestyle of antiquity remained in place. ''Guns'' contends the fundamental reason Europe of the middle period could send sailing ships to explore the Americas and Africa, rather than these areas sending sailing ships to explore Europe, is that ancient happenstance involving plants gave Europe a food edge that translated into a head start on technology. Then, the moment European societies forged steel and fashioned guns, they acquired a runaway advantage no hunter-gatherer society could possibly counter.
 Also, as the ice age ended, Eurasia was home to large mammals that could be domesticated, while most parts of the globe were not. In early history, animals were power: huge advantages were granted by having cattle for meat and milk, horses and elephants for war. Horses -- snarling devil-monsters to the Inca -- were a reason 169 Spaniards could kill thousands of Incas at the battle of Cajamarca in 1532, for example. ''Rhino-mounted Bantu shock troops could have overthrown the Roman Empire,'' Diamond speculates, but the rhino and other large mammals of Africa defied domestication, leaving that continent at a competitive disadvantage. 
 Large populations and the fact that Eurasians lived among domesticated animals meant Europe was rife with sicknesses to which the survivors acquired immunity. When Europeans began to explore other lands, their microbes wiped out indigenous populations, easing conquest. Almost all variations in societies, Diamond concludes, are caused not by societies themselves but by ''differences in their environments''; the last 500 years of rising power for the West ''has its ultimate roots in developments between about 11,000 B.C. and A.D. 1,'' the deck always stacked in Europe's favor.
 In this respect, ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' is pure political correctness, and its P.C. quotient was a reason the book won praise. But the book must not be dismissed because it is P.C.: sometimes politically correct is, after all, correct. The flaws of the work are more subtle, and they set the stage for ''Collapse.'' One flaw was that Diamond argued mainly from the archaeological record -- a record that is a haphazard artifact of items that just happened to survive. We know precious little about what was going on in 11,000 B.C., and much of what we think we know is inferential. It may be decades or centuries until we understand human prehistory, if we ever do.
 Diamond's analysis discounts culture and human thought as forces in history; culture, especially, is seen as a side effect of environment. The big problem with this view is explaining why China -- which around the year 1000 was significantly ahead of Europe in development, and possessed similar advantages in animals and plants -- fell behind. This happened, Diamond says, because China adopted a single-ruler society that banned change. True, but how did environment or animal husbandry dic-tate this? China's embrace of a change-resistant society was a cultural phenomenon. During the same period China was adopting centrally regimented life, Europe was roiled by the idea of individualism. Individualism proved a potent force, a source of power, invention and motivation. Yet Diamond considers ideas to be nearly irrelevant, compared with microbes and prevailing winds. Supply the right environmental conditions, and inevitably there will be a factory manufacturing jet engines.
 Many thinkers have attempted single-explanation theories for history. Such attempts hold innate appeal -- wouldn't it be great if there were a single explanation! -- but have a poor track record. My guess is that despite its conspicuous brilliance, ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' will eventually be viewed as a drastic oversimplification. Its arguments come perilously close to determinism, and it is hard to believe that the world is as it is because it had to be that way.
 Diamond ended his 1997 book by supposing, ''The challenge now is to develop human history as a science.'' That is what ''Collapse'' attempts -- to use history as a science to forecast whether the current world order will fail. To research his new book, Diamond traveled to the scenes of vanished societies like Easter Island, Norse Greenland, the Anasazi, the Mayans. He must have put enormous effort into ''Collapse,'' and his willingness to do so after achieving wealth and literary celebrity -- surely publishers would have taken anything he dashed off -- speaks well of his dedication.
 ''Collapse'' spends considerable pages contemplating past life on Easter Island, as well as on Pitcairn and Henderson islands, and on Greenland, an island. Deforestation, the book shows, was a greater factor in the breakdown of societies in these places than commonly understood. Because trees take so long to regrow, deforestation has more severe consequences than crop failure, and can trigger disastrous erosion. Centuries ago, the deforestation of Easter Island allowed wind to blow off the island's thin topsoil: ''starvation, a population crash and a descent into cannibalism'' followed, leaving those haunting statues for Europeans to find. Climate change and deforestation that set off soil loss, Diamond shows, were leading causes of the Anasazi and Mayan declines. ''Collapse'' reminds us that like fossil fuels, soil is a resource that took millions of years to accumulate and that humanity now races through: Diamond estimates current global soil loss at 10 to 40 times the rate of soil formation. Deforestation ''was a or the major factor'' in all the collapsed societies he describes, while climate change was a recurring menace. 
 How much do Diamond's case studies bear on current events? He writes mainly about isolated islands and pretechnology populations. Imagine the conditions when Erik the Red founded his colony on frigid Greenland in 984 -- if something went wrong, the jig was up. As isolated systems, islands are more vulnerable than continents. Most dire warnings about species extinction, for example, are estimates drawn from studies of island ecologies, where a stressed species may have no place to retreat to. ''Collapse'' declares that ''a large fraction'' of the world's species may fall extinct in the next 50 years, which is the kind of conclusion favored by biologists who base their research on islands. But most species don't live on islands. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the leading authority on biodiversity, estimates that about 9 percent of the world's vertebrate species are imperiled. That's plenty bad enough, but does not support the idea that a ''large fraction'' of species are poised to vanish. Like most species, most people do not live on islands, yet ''Collapse'' tries to generalize from environmental failures on isolated islands to environmental threats to society as a whole.
 Diamond rightly warns of alarming trends in biodiversity, soil loss, freshwater limits (China is depleting its aquifers at a breakneck rate), overfishing (much of the developing world relies on the oceans for protein) and climate change (there is a strong scientific consensus that future warming could be dangerous). These and other trends may lead to a global crash: ''Our world society is presently on a nonsustainable course.'' The West, especially, is in peril: ''The prosperity that the First World enjoys at present is based on spending down its environmental capital.'' Calamity could come quickly: ''A society's steep decline may begin only a decade or two after the society reaches its peak numbers, wealth and power.''
 Because population pressure played a prominent role in the collapses of some past societies, Diamond especially fears population growth. Owing to sheer numbers it is an ''impossibility'' that the developing world will ever reach Western living standards. Some projections suggest the globe's population, now about 6 billion, may peak at about 8.5 billion. To Diamond, this is a nightmare scenario: defenders of population growth ''nonchalantly'' mention ''adding 'only' 2.5 billion more people . . . as if that were acceptable.'' Population growth has made Los Angeles ''less appealing,'' especially owing to traffic: ''I have never met an Angeleno (and very few people anywhere in the world) who personally expressed a desire for increased population.'' About the only nonaboriginal society Diamond has kind words for is pre-Meiji Japan, where population control was strictly enforced. But wait -- pre-Meiji Japan collapsed!
 If 2.5 billion more people are not ''acceptable,'' how, exactly, would Diamond prevent their births? He does not say. Nuclear war, plague, a comet strike or coerced mass sterilizations seem the only forces that might stop the human population from rising to its predicted peak. Everyone dislikes traffic jams and other aspects of population density, but people are here and cannot be wished away; the challenge is to manage social pressure and create enough jobs until the population peak arrives. And is it really an ''impossibility'' for developing-world living standards to reach the Western level? A century ago, rationalists would have called global consumption of 78 million barrels per day of petroleum an impossibility, and that's the latest figure. 
 If trends remain unchanged, the global economy is unsustainable. But the Fallacy of Uninterrupted Trends tells us patterns won't remain unchanged. For instance, deforestation of the United States, rampant in the 19th century, has stopped: forested acreage of the country began rising during the 20th century, and is still rising. Why? Wood is no longer a primary fuel, while high-yield agriculture allowed millions of acres to be retired from farming and returned to trees. Today wood is a primary fuel in the developing world, so deforestation is acute; but if developing nations move on to other energy sources, forest cover will regrow. If the West changes from fossil fuel to green power, its worst resource trend will not continue uninterrupted.
 Though Diamond endorses ''cautious optimism,'' ''Collapse'' comes to a wary view of the human prospect. Diamond fears our fate was set in motion in antiquity -- we're living off the soil and petroleum bequeathed by the far past, and unless there are profound changes in behavior, all may crash when legacy commodities run out. Oddly, for someone with a background in evolutionary theory, he seems not to consider society's evolutionary arc. He thinks backward 13,000 years, forward only a decade or two. What might human society be like 13,000 years from now? Above us in the Milky Way are essentially infinite resources and living space. If the phase of fossil-driven technology leads to discoveries that allow Homo sapiens to move into the galaxy, then resources, population pressure and other issues that worry Diamond will be forgotten. Most of the earth may even be returned to primordial stillness, and the whole thing would have happened in the blink of an eye by nature's standards.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); ANIMALS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ISLANDS & REEFS (62%); GEOGRAPHY (62%); BIRDS (62%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); EVOLUTION THEORY (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Gregg Easterbrook; Jared Diamond

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



607 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4292 words

HEADLINE: Dr. Ecstasy

BYLINE: By Drake Bennett. 
Drake Bennett is the staff writer for The Boston Globe Ideas section.

 BODY:
Alexander Shulgin, Sasha to his friends, lives with his wife, Ann, 30 minutes inland from the San Francisco Bay on a hillside dotted with valley oak, Monterey pine and hallucinogenic cactus. At 79, he stoops a little, but he is still well over six feet tall, with a mane of white hair, a matching beard and a wardrobe that runs toward sandals, slacks and short-sleeved shirts with vaguely ethnic patterns. He lives modestly, drawing income from a small stock portfolio supplemented by his Social Security and the rent that two phone companies pay him to put cell towers on his land. In many respects he might pass for a typical Contra Costa County retiree.
 It was an acquaintance of Shulgin's named Humphry Osmond, a British psychiatrist and researcher into the effects of mescaline and LSD, who coined the word ''psychedelic'' in the late 1950's for a class of drugs that significantly alter one's perception of reality. Derived from Greek, the term translates as ''mind manifesting'' and is preferred by those who believe in the curative power of such chemicals. Skeptics tend to call them hallucinogens. 
 Shulgin is in the former camp. There's a story he likes to tell about the past 100 years: ''At the beginning of the 20th century, there were only two psychedelic compounds known to Western science: cannabis and mescaline. A little over 50 years later -- with LSD, psilocybin, psilocin, TMA, several compounds based on DMT and various other isomers -- the number was up to almost 20. By 2000, there were well over 200. So you see, the growth is exponential.'' When I asked him whether that meant that by 2050 we'll be up to 2,000, he smiled and said, ''The way it's building up now, we may have well over that number.'' 
 The point is clear enough: the continuing explosion in options for chemical mind-manifestation is as natural as the passage of time. But what Shulgin's narrative leaves out is the fact that most of this supposedly inexorable diversification took place in a lab in his backyard. For 40 years, working in plain sight of the law and publishing his results, Shulgin has been a one-man psychopharmacological research sector. (Timothy Leary called him one of the century's most important scientists.) By Shulgin's own count, he has created nearly 200 psychedelic compounds, among them stimulants, depressants, aphrodisiacs, ''empathogens,'' convulsants, drugs that alter hearing, drugs that slow one's sense of time, drugs that speed it up, drugs that trigger violent outbursts, drugs that deaden emotion -- in short, a veritable lexicon of tactile and emotional experience. And in 1976, Shulgin fished an obscure chemical called MDMA out of the depths of the chemical literature and introduced it to the wider world, where it came to be known as Ecstasy.
 In the small subculture that truly believes in better living through chemistry, Shulgin's oeuvre has made him an icon and a hero: part pioneer, part holy man, part connoisseur. As his supporters point out, his work places him in an old, and in many cultures venerable, tradition. Whether it's West African iboga ceremonies or Navajo peyote rituals, 60's LSD culture or the age-old cultivation of cannabis nearly everywhere on the planet it can grow, the pursuit and celebration of chemically-induced alternate realms of consciousness goes back beyond the dawn of recorded history and has proved impossible to fully suppress. Shulgin sees nothing strange about devoting his life to it. What's strange to him is that so few others see fit to do the same thing.
 Most of the scientific community considers Shulgin at best a curiosity and at worst a menace. Now, however, near the end of his career, his faith in the potential of psychedelics has at least a chance at vindication. A little more than a month ago, the Food and Drug Administration approved a Harvard Medical School study looking at whether MDMA can alleviate the fear and anxiety of terminal cancer patients. And next month will mark a year since Michael Mithoefer, a psychiatrist in Charleston, S.C., started his study of Ecstasy-assisted therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder. At the same time, with somewhat less attention, studies at the Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center and the University of Arizona, Tucson, have focused on the therapeutic potential of psilocybin (the active ingredient in ''magic mushrooms''). It's far from a revolution, but it is an opening, and as both scientist and advocate, Shulgin has helped create it. If -- and it's a big ''if'' -- the results of the studies are promising enough, it might bring something like legitimacy to the Shulgin pharmacopoeia. 
''I've always been interested in the machinery of the mental process,'' Shulgin told me not long ago. He has also, from a very young age, loved playing with chemicals. As a lonely 16-year-old Harvard scholarship student soon to drop out and join the Navy, he studied organic chemistry. His interest in pharmacology dates to 1944, when a military nurse gave him some orange juice just before his surgery for a thumb infection. Convinced that the undissolved crystals at the bottom of the glass were a sedative, Shulgin fell unconscious, only to find upon waking that the substance had been sugar. It was a revelatory, tantalizing hint of the mind's odd strength. 
 When Shulgin had his first psychedelic experience in 1960, he was a young U.C. Berkeley biochemistry Ph.D. working at Dow Chemical. He had already been interested for several years in the chemistry of mescaline, the active ingredient in peyote, when one spring day a few friends offered to keep an eye on him while he tried it himself. He spent the afternoon enraptured by his surroundings. Most important, he later wrote, he realized that everything he saw and thought ''had been brought about by a fraction of a gram of a white solid, but that in no way whatsoever could it be argued that these memories had been contained within the white solid. . . . I understood that our entire universe is contained in the mind and the spirit. We may choose not to find access to it, we may even deny its existence, but it is indeed there inside us, and there are chemicals that can catalyze its availability.'' 
 Epiphanies don't come much grander than that, and Shulgin's interest in psychoactive drugs bloomed into an obsession. ''There was,'' he remembers thinking, ''this remarkably rich and unexplored area that I had to explore.'' Two years later, he was given his chance when he created Zectran, one of the world's first biodegradable insecticides. In return, Dow gave him its customary dollar for the patent and unlimited freedom to pursue his interests. 
 As Shulgin turned toward making psychedelics, Dow remained true to its word. When the company asked, he patented his compounds. When it didn't, Shulgin published his findings in places like Nature and The Journal of Organic Chemistry. Eventually, however, Dow decided that Shulgin's work wasn't something it wanted to endorse and asked that he not use the company address in his publications. He began to work out of a lab he had set up at home, eventually leaving Dow altogether to freelance as a consultant to research labs and hospitals.
 All along he made drugs: 2,5-dimethoxy-4-ethoxyamphetamine, or MEM for short, was his Rosetta stone, a ''valuable and dramatic compound'' that opened the door to a whole class of drugs based on changes at the ''4 position'' of a molecule's central carbon ring. A compound he dubbed Aleph-1 gave him ''one of the most delicious blends of inflation, paranoia and selfishness that I have ever experienced.'' Another, Ariadne, was patented and tested under the name Dimoxamine as a drug for ''restoring motivation in senile geriatric patients.'' Still another, DIPT, created no visual hallucinations but distorted the user's sense of pitch. 
 Shulgin tested for activity by taking the chemicals himself. He would start many times below the active dose of a compound's closest analog and work his way up on alternate days. When he found something of interest, Ann, whom he married in 1981, would try it. If he thought further study was warranted, he would invite over his ''research group'' of six to eight close friends -- among them two psychologists and a fellow chemist -- and try the drugs out on them. In case of a truly dangerous reaction, Shulgin kept an anti-convulsant on hand. He used it twice, both times on himself.
 Shulgin's pace has slowed recently -- the research group hardly meets anymore. Nevertheless, Ann figures that she's had more than 2,000 psychedelic experiences. Shulgin puts his own figure above 4,000. Asked if they had suffered any effects from their remarkable drug histories, they laughed. ''You mean negative effects?'' Ann said. In more than a dozen hours of conversation, her memory proved sharp. But Shulgin, while a nimble conversationalist, can have trouble with names -- of people and places, never chemicals. At one point, while explaining a mnemonic device he uses to remember world geography, he paused and asked me, ''Where's that place where Ann is from?'' (She was born in New Zealand.) He is, though, also nearing 80.
Once a Shulgin compound develops a reputation, it is almost invariably placed on the Drug Enforcement Agency's list of Schedule I drugs, those deemed to have no accepted medical use and the highest potential for abuse or addiction. It is therefore rather striking that Shulgin is not only still a free man, but also still at work. His own explanation is that, quite simply, ''I'm not doing anything illegal.'' For more than 20 years, until a government crackdown, he had a D.E.A.-issued Schedule I research license. And many of the drugs in his lab weren't illegal because they hadn't existed until he created them. 
 Shulgin's knack for befriending the right people hasn't hurt. A week after I visited him, he was headed to Sonoma County for the annual ''summer encampment'' of the Bohemian Club, an exclusive, secretive San Francisco-based men's club that has counted every Republican president since Herbert Hoover among its members.
 For a long time, though, Shulgin's most helpful relationship was with the D.E.A. itself. The head of the D.E.A.'s Western Laboratory, Bob Sager, was one of his closest friends. Sager officiated at the Shulgins' wedding and, a year later, was married on Shulgin's lawn. Through Sager, the agency came to rely on Shulgin: he would give pharmacology talks to the agents, make drug samples for the forensic teams and serve as an expert witness -- though, he is quick to point out, he appeared much more frequently for the defense. He even wrote the definitive law-enforcement desk-reference work on controlled substances. In his office, Shulgin has several plaques awarded to him by the agency for his service. (Shulgin denies that this had anything to do with his being given his Schedule I license.)
 Nevertheless, in the early 80's, Shulgin began having grim fantasies of the D.E.A. throwing him in jail, ransacking his lab and destroying all of his records. At the same time, he was finding it harder to get his work published: journals were either uninterested in or leery about human psychedelic research. He decided to make as much of what he knew public as quickly as possible. He and Ann started work on a book called ''PiHKAL'' (short for ''Phenethylamines I Have Known and Loved,'' after a family of compounds particularly rich in psychoactivity), self-publishing it in 1991.
 It is a curious hybrid work, divided into two sections. The first, ''The Love Story,'' is a thinly fictionalized account of Sasha's and Ann's comings of age, previous marriages, meeting, courtship (to which nearly 200 pages are devoted) and many drug experiences. The second, ''The Chemical Story,'' is not a story at all, but capsule descriptions of 179 phenethylamines. Each entry includes step-by-step instructions for synthesis, along with recommended dosages, duration of action and ''qualitative comments'' like the following, for 60 milligrams of something called 3C-E: ''Visuals very strong, insistent. Body discomfort remained very heavy for first hour. . . . 2nd hour on, bright colors, distinct shapes -- jewel-like -- with eyes closed. Suddenly it became clearly not anti-erotic. . . . Image of glass-walled apartment building in mid-desert. Exquisite sensitivity. Down by? midnight. Next morning, faint flickering lights on looking out windows.'' ''TiHKAL'' (''Tryptamines I Have Known and Loved''), self-published six years later, follows the same model.
 To date, ''PiHKAL'' has sold more than 41,000 copies, a figure nearly unheard-of for a self-published book. It introduced Shulgin's work to a whole new audience and turned him into an underground celebrity. An organization called the Center for Cognitive Liberty and Ethics has an online Ask Dr. Shulgin column that receives 200 questions a month. On independent drug-information Web sites like www.erowid.com, you can find the ''PiHKAL'' and ''TiHKAL'' entries for dozens of drugs, along with many anonymously posted accounts of Shulgin-style self-dosing drug experiments, some of them harrowing in their recklessness. 
 With all of these fellow travelers, some very bad experiences are inevitable. In 1967, a Shulgin compound called DOM enjoyed a brief vogue in Haight-Ashbury under the name STP, at doses several times larger than those at which Shulgin had found significant psychoactive effects, and emergency rooms saw a spike in the number of people coming in thinking they would never come down. And while the number of psychedelic-related deaths is orders of magnitude smaller than the number due to alcohol, prescription drugs or even over-the-counter painkillers, they do occur regularly. In October 2000, a 20-year-old man in Norman, Okla., died from taking 2C-T-7, a drug Shulgin describes in ''PiHKAL'' as ''good and friendly and wonderful.''
 When I asked Shulgin whether he remembered the first time he heard that someone had died from one of his drugs, he said he did not: ''It would have struck me as being a sad event. And yet, at the same time, how many people die from aspirin? It's a small but real percentage.'' (The American Association of Poison Control Centers, whose numbers are not comprehensive, attributed 59 deaths to aspirin in 2003; most, though, were suicides.) Asked whether he could imagine a drug so addictive that it should be banned, he said no. With his fervent libertarianism -- he says the only appropriate restriction on drugs is one to prevent children from buying them -- he has inoculated himself against any sense of personal guilt.
 Shulgin's special relationship with the D.E.A. ended two years after the publication of ''PiHKAL.'' According to Richard Meyer, spokesman for the agency's San Francisco Field Division: ''It is our opinion that those books are pretty much cookbooks on how to make illegal drugs. Agents tell me that in clandestine labs that they have raided, they have found copies of those books.'' In 1993, D.E.A. agents descended on Shulgin's farm, combed through the house and lab and carted off anything they thought might be an illicit substance. Shulgin was fined $25,000 for violations of the terms of his Schedule I license (donations from friends and admirers ended up covering the whole amount) and was asked to turn the license in. 
To the extent that Shulgin is known to the wider world, it is as the godfather of Ecstasy: 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine, or MDMA, was originally patented in 1914 by Merck. The byproduct of a chemical synthesis, it was thought to have no use of its own and was promptly forgotten. But Shulgin resynthesized it in 1976 at the suggestion of a former student. (He has never found out how she heard about it.) Two years later, in a paper written with his friend and fellow chemist David Nichols, he was the first to publicly document its effect on humans: ''an easily controlled altered state of consciousness with emotional and sensual overtones.''
 Unlike many of its subsequent users, Shulgin did not find his MDMA experience transformative. For him the effect was like a particularly lucid alcohol buzz; he called it his ''low-calorie martini.'' He was intrigued, though, by the drug's unique combination of intoxication, disinhibition and clarity. ''It didn't have the other visual and auditory imaginative things that you often get from psychedelics,'' he said. ''It opened up a person, both to other people and inner thoughts, but didn't necessarily color it with pretty colors and strange noises.'' He decided that it might be well suited for psychotherapy.
 At the time, it was not such an unconventional idea. In the 50's and 60's, the use of LSD, psilocybin and mescaline in therapy was the subject of much mainstream scholarly debate. LSD was a particularly hot topic: more than a thousand papers were written on its use as an experimental treatment for alcoholism, depression and various neuroses in some 40,000 patients. One proponent was a psychotherapist and friend of Shulgin's named Leo Zeff. When Shulgin had him try MDMA in 1977, Zeff was so impressed that he came out of retirement to proselytize for it. Ann Shulgin remembers a speaker at Zeff's memorial service saying that Zeff had introduced the drug to ''about 4,000'' therapists. 
 In certain therapeutic circles, MDMA acquired a reputation as a wonder drug. Anecdotal accounts attested to its ability to induce in one session the sort of breakthroughs that normally took months or years of therapy. According to George Greer, a psychiatrist who in the early 80's conducted MDMA therapy sessions with 80 patients, ''Without exception, every therapist who I talked to or even heard of, every therapist who gave MDMA to a patient, was highly impressed by the results.''
 But the drug was also showing up in nightclubs in Dallas and Los Angeles, and in 1986 the D.E.A. placed it in Schedule I. By the late 90's, household surveys showed millions of teenagers and college students using it, and in 2000, U.S. Customs officials seized nearly 10 million pills. Parents and public officials worried that a whole generation was consigning itself to a life of drug-induced depression and cognitive decay.
 There is, in fact, little consensus about what MDMA does to your brain over the long run. Researchers generally agree on its immediate physiological effects: especially at higher doses, it can trigger sharp increases in muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure. Hyperthermia, or raised body temperature, is a particular worry, along with the attendant risk of heatstroke or dehydration. MDMA also, at least temporarily, exhausts the brain's supply of serotonin (a neurochemical thought to play a role in memory and mood regulation). But as to the extent and duration of that depletion, and whether it has any measurable functional or behavioral consequences, there is fierce debate and surprisingly scarce data. Nationwide, fatality numbers are hard to come by, but a study by New York City's deputy chief medical examiner determined that of the 19,000 deaths from all causes reported to his office between January 1997 and June 2000, 2 were due solely to Ecstasy.
 In the past couple of years, MDMA's opponents have backed off from some of their stronger claims. (In one particularly embarrassing instance, a study linking MDMA to Parkinson's disease was revealed to have instead been based on the use of methamphetamine, which is known to be much more neurotoxic.) Emboldened, a few psychiatrists are bringing MDMA back into the news in a role closer to the one Shulgin originally imagined for it.
 With the F.D.A.'s approval of the Harvard cancer-patient study on Dec. 17, all that's still needed is a D.E.A. license for MDMA. John Halpern, the psychiatrist heading the study, anticipates that happening in the next couple of months. At the same time, he cautions against making too much of his ''small pilot study'': eight subjects undergoing a course of MDMA therapy, with another four receiving a placebo. The Charleston study is similarly modest, with 20 subjects.
 Still, according to Mark A.R. Kleiman, director of the Drug Policy Analysis Program at U.C.L.A., ''there's obviously been a significant shift at the regulatory agencies and the Institutional Review Boards. There are studies being approved that wouldn't have been approved 10 years ago. And there are studies being proposed that wouldn't have been proposed 10 years ago.''
 The theoretical basis for MDMA therapy varies a bit depending on whom you talk to. Greer says that by lowering patients' defenses, the drug allows them to face troubling, even repressed, memories. Charles Grob, the psychiatry professor running the U.C.L.A. psilocybin study (also with terminal cancer patients) and a longtime advocate of therapeutic MDMA research, focuses more on the ''empathic rapport'' catalyzed by MDMA. ''I don't know of any other compound that can achieve this to the degree that MDMA can,'' he said.
 The medical community remains dubious. For Vivian Rakoff, emeritus professor of psychiatry at the University of Toronto, there is something familiar about the claims being made for psychedelics. ''The notion of the revelatory moment due to some drug or maneuver that will allow you to change your life has been around for a long time,'' he said. ''Every few years, something comes along that claims to be what Freud called the 'royal road to the unconscious.''' Steven Hyman, professor of neurobiology at Harvard Medical School and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health, put it this way: ''If you asked me to place a bet, I would be skeptical. In general, one worries that insights gained under states of disinhibition or mild euphoria or different cognitive states with illusions may seem strange and distant from the vantage of our ordinary life.'' Even so, both Hyman and Rakoff say that research should be allowed to proceed. 
 Shulgin has been credited with jump-starting today's therapeutic research, but he prefers to play down his role. While heartened by the MDMA studies and happy to play psychedelic elder statesman, he insists that he is not a healer or a shaman but a researcher. Asked why he does what he does, he replies, ''I'm curious!'' He is most animated when describing the feeling that accompanies the discovery of a new compound, no matter what its properties. Sometimes he compares the moment to that of artistic creation (''The pleasure of composing a new painting or piece of music''), and sometimes it sounds more like a close encounter of the third kind (''You're meeting something you don't know, and it's meeting something it doesn't know. And so you have this exchange of properties and ideas'').
Shulgin's lab is in the concrete-block foundation of what used to be a small cabin, set into a ridge a few dozen yards from his house along a narrow brick path. On the door is a laminated sign that reads, ''This is a research facility that is known to and authorized by the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, all San Francisco D.E.A. Personnel and the State and Federal E.P.A. Authorities.'' Underneath are phone numbers for the relevant official at each agency. He posted it after the sheriff's department and the D.E.A. raided the farm a second time a few years ago. (They later apologized.)
 Shulgin gave me my tour late one afternoon. A weak light came in through the small, dusty windows. The smell -- synthetic and organic at once, like a burning tire doused in urine -- took some getting used to. Bulbous flasks were clipped into place above a counter crowded with glassware shaped like finds from the Burgess Shale. ''Everything you need is right here,'' Shulgin declared, pulling out drawer after clattering drawer of test tubes, beakers, plastic tubing and syringes. At the far end of the room, beside the fireplace, was a small chalkboard covered with the traces of his brainstorming -- antennaed pentagons and hexagons ringed with N's, H's, C's and O's. Shulgin picked a short bit of scrap wood off the counter. He occasionally used it, he explained, to tear down the spider webs that festooned the rafters. ''But the main problem is the squirrels,'' he said, pointing to where he had put up sheet metal to keep them out. ''It doesn't look like the labs you see in the movies, but you get a chemist out here, and he'll say, 'Oh, my God, I'd love to have a lab like this.''' 
 Of course, in a way, it's exactly the sort of lab that you see in the movies -- they're just movies in which the scientists wear frock coats, turn into monsters and abduct wan women in nightgowns. There's an undeniable romance to what Shulgin does. As he stood there with his spider-web stick, describing what it's like to be in the lab late on a cold night with the fire blazing and Rachmaninoff on the radio, it seemed to me that he realized it.
 He might best be described not as a scientist in the modern sense but as a different type -- what Aldous Huxley, the novelist turned psychedelic philosopher, once described as a ''naturalist of the mind,'' a ''collector of psychological specimens'' whose ''primary concern was to make a census, to catch, kill, stuff and describe as many kinds of beasts as he could lay his hands on.'' Shulgin has on occasion run PET scans to see where in the brain some of his drugs go. He has offered theories as to mechanisms of action or, as with MDMA, even suggested an application for a drug. But his primary purpose, as he sees it, is not to worry about things like that -- much less about the political and social consequences of his creations. His job is to be first and then push on somewhere new. What to do with the widening wake of chemicals he leaves behind is for the rest of us to figure out. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alexander Shulgin
 Cabin of Curiosity: Unlocking the door to his lab -- and the door to his inquisitiveness. ''Our entire universe,'' Shulgin claims, ''is contained in the mind and the spirit.'' (Photographs by Jeff Minton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); LSD (77%); PSYCHIATRY (74%); CHEMICALS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CANNABIS (64%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Biographical Information; Ecstasy (Drug); Mental Health and Disorders ; Drug Abuse and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: Dow Chemical Co

PERSON: Drake Bennett; Alexander Shulgin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



608 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Equality of Opportunity: The Water We Swim In

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN ''20 Ads That Shook the World,'' a fascinating book by James B. Twitchell, I read a dramatic assertion by anthropologists: If fish could think or had consciousness, the last thing they would think about is water.
 With that discovery came a flood of watery memories and some thoughts about the possible American human equivalent of the fish's water. What is vital to us that we hardly even think about? Here is a hint:
 In roughly 1958, when I was in eighth grade, I had an assignment to choose a career path and to write about it. I consulted my father, whom I always consulted about everything, and he asked me what careers I was interested in. 
 ''Well, I love cars, and I think I'd like to work at General Motors or, even better, Ford,'' I said.
 He sighed. ''Actually, Benjy, auto companies don't really take Jews in executive positions,'' he said. ''What else are you interested in?'' 
 I was a bit stunned, but I went on with boyish enthusiasm: ''Well, maybe advertising. I like the idea of working on commercials.''
 My father looked uncomfortable and said, ''I have to tell you that Madison Avenue doesn't really take Jews either, or at least not much.''
 Bear in mind that my father worked as director of research for a prestigious association of businessmen called the Committee for Economic Development. He basically wrote papers for it, on tax policy, trade, labor policy and other big issues. He knew the top people in business in the nation at the time, although definitely not as a social equal. (In my view then and now, he was at least their intellectual and moral equal). And he did know the world.
 ''How about banking?'' I asked. ''That's a nice neat place to work.''
 Now my father looked really unhappy. ''They really don't take Jews at a high level or even a low level either at the big banks,'' he said. ''Maybe think about the civil service or about law at a Jewish firm, because the big gentile firms don't take Jews, either.''
 It was a sobering conversation for a 13-year-old and, as you can tell, I remembered it vividly.
 That was the business world then -- highly restricted against Jews. And locked absolutely tight against blacks, unless they were washroom attendants or manual laborers. (The junior high school I attended, in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, had been desegregated only 18 months earlier.) For women, there was the world of typists and receptionists. Asians and Hispanics were hardly a business afterthought. That was it in free, white America in 1958. It was a white Christian men's club, and it was not that long ago. Elvis was there and so was Little Richard.
 In 2005, however, day-to-day business swims in the water of stunning, unbelievable moral progress. It is a whole new world, a new universe of equality of opportunity.
 Every job in every field is open to everyone, with perhaps a very few exceptions. Women are heads of gigantic high-tech companies like Hewlett-Packard. Blacks are heads of immense financial companies like Merrill Lynch and American Express and vast communications combines like Time Warner (and, Time was among the WASPiest of companies long ago.) Blacks and women can be found at every prestigious, well-paid perch. Jews are hired at law firms that would not have let them in the door during my youth, except as tailors. Jews are the heads of industrial corporations where they would not have been considered for interviews in 1958.
 As for Asians and Hispanics, they, too, are rising everywhere. Asians lead the technology world to an astonishing extent, and Hispanics are a potent force in the media, law and other fields. 
 THE daily news is filled with alarums and excursions about the trade deficit, the budget deficit, corporate profits, malfeasance in high places and worries about pensions. All are real problems, to be sure, but if we take a step back, if we think like historians instead of gossips, we see something amazing: society has been made so much more open than my father -- a visionary in his own way -- could have dreamed only 47 years ago. 
 Of course we have problems. We always will. But the stunning achievements of American business in opening itself up to all in the society -- that is the water in which we swim. And we should swim with a great deal of pride. The big story, the sweep of opportunity, is one that we ignore every day -- and are the poorer for it.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); TAX LAW (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) Executives and Management; Blacks; Jews; Labor

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



609 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; FOLLOWING UP; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 664 words

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:

Four-Term Newark Leader Won't Second-Guess Mayor
 He was recalling the ups and downs of his highly public past life -- the ups proudly, the downs sometimes defiantly, but always in the calm tone of a man who suggests in his comments that he has put it all in perspective.
 When Kenneth A. Gibson, above, was elected mayor of Newark in 1970, he became the first black mayor of a major Northeastern city and a national spokesman for the country's troubled urban communities. 
 Then a 38-year-old civil engineer, he beat the incumbent, Hugh J. Addonizio, in a bitter and racially divisive election three years after major race riots tore through Newark. Mr. Gibson was re-elected three times, but in 1986 lost his bid for a fifth term to Sharpe James, a fellow Democrat now serving his fifth term. 
 Mr. Gibson argued in the 1986 campaign that he had turned a budget deficit into a surplus, improved health services and housing and helped rejuvenate downtown. Mr. James stressed the city's high unemployment and crime rates and contended that Mr. Gibson had lost interest in the job, having twice run for New Jersey governor.
 Mr. Gibson was also prosecuted twice. In 1982 he was acquitted of state charges that he had conspired to create a no-show job for a former city official. In 2002 he pleaded guilty to a charge of federal tax evasion, and was given three years' probation, ending a case in which he had been charged with bribery and fraud involving a contract that his construction management company had with the township of Irvington. 
 ''I'm basically retired,'' Mr. Gibson, 72, said last week from his Newark home, where he is recuperating from heart bypass surgery. The criminal prosecution, he said, put his firm out of business. 
 His political activity over the last couple of years has consisted of ''second-guessing all the politicians'' while ''shooting the breeze'' with friends and fellow retirees, he said. But -- at least in shooting the breeze with a reporter -- he said he was ''not going to get involved in second-guessing anything Mayor James is doing.''
 Mr. Gibson said his ''most gratifying'' mayoral accomplishment had been improving Newark's health services, which led to a reduction in the city's high rates of tuberculosis, infant mortality and the deaths of mothers during childbirth. He said he regretted not having been able to ''attract major job-producing industries to the city.''
 About the criminal cases, Mr. Gibson said that ''a public figure of note'' is often a target of prosecutors seeking advancement, ''whether or not we should be.'' But ''when the history books are written, Ken Gibson's name will be there,'' he said, adding that he did not think ''anyone will remember'' the names of his prosecutors.

Former Hotel Owner Still Missing, F.B.I. Says
 In the 1970's and early 80's, Edward J. Halloran, a high-living businessman called Biff by his friends, was a major concrete supplier in New York and the owner of the Halloran House, a large hotel on Lexington Avenue at 49th Street. But his business ventures collapsed in the late 80's when he was convicted of charges that included working with the Mafia to rig construction bids. He served four years in prison. 
 In 1998, Mr. Halloran, then 57, vanished, the authorities reported. They speculated that he might have been killed in a dispute with mobsters or that he had fled because he anticipated -- correctly, as it turned out -- that he was about to be charged with bilking people in an investment scheme.
 Last week, spokesmen for the F.B.I. and the New York City police could offer no further clarification. They said the agencies had officially classified him as a fugitive. But an F.B.I. spokesman, Joseph Valiquette, said, ''Over time we have received contradictory intelligence, indicating on the one hand that he may be dead, or that he's alive and living in Florida. We don't know which is accurate.''
 One thing is clear: The hotel he once owned is now the New York Marriott East Side.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (75%); POLITICS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); PROBATION (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); BUDGETS (67%); BRIBERY (66%); TAX FRAUD (65%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); RIOTS (54%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) Mayors; Ethics; Missing Persons; Frauds and Swindling; Politics and Government

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Kenneth A Gibson; edward j halloran; Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



610 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: At Forum, Leaders Confront Annual Enigma of China

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
In almost every panel discussion at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum here, there comes a moment when somebody mentions China.
 A hush typically ensues, as panelists draw their breath, gather their thoughts and struggle to put the bewildering vastness of the topic into a few words.
 ''China is going to be the change agent for the next 20 years,'' said Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, when asked about the country's future by the television interview host Charlie Rose.
 China's staggering potential, coupled with the steep language barrier and cultural discomfort of many Chinese who come to this conference, has made it Davos's annual enigma. 
 After three days of outsiders' dissecting its motives and prospects, China finally took the stage on Saturday, with a speech by its executive vice prime minister, Huang Ju.
 ''China's development will by no means pose a threat to other countries,'' Mr. Huang declared cheerfully, as if to soothe people here who spent the week fretting about China's lengthening shadow.
 Mr. Huang, however, said little on the two issues of overriding importance to the investors and business people here: whether China would allow its currency to rise against the dollar, and whether the Chinese would crack down on the rampant theft of intellectual property.
 ''We have to maintain the exchange rate at a reasonable level,'' said Mr. Huang, who directs China's finance policy and was billed by the organizers as Beijing's chief operating officer.
 Some here interpreted that comment as a signal that China would not allow its currency, the yuan, to rise against the dollar this year, as some Europeans and Americans have demanded. But Michael S. Dell, the chairman of Dell Inc., who had breakfast with Mr. Huang, said he did not draw any conclusions.
 Mr. Huang also did little to ease investors' concerns about China's regard for intellectual property rights, saying only that through new laws and tougher enforcement, China was trying to achieve in a dozen years what it had taken the Western world a century to do.
 At a dinner with the theme of investing in China, several foreign executives said they discerned little progress on the issue. The only way to avoid having their proprietary technology pilfered by Chinese competitors, they said, was to keep most research and development activities at home, and to use China for simple manufacturing.
 For the Chinese who trek to this Alpine ski resort, the problem is less one of legal tradition than cultural disconnect. Except for a handful of fluent English speakers with long experience with foreigners, most keep to themselves -- shying away from the high-octane networking that is the fuel of Davos.
 ''Davos's history is as a European and American conference," said Chen Feng, the chairman of Hainan Airlines Company. ''People come here to relax and ski. China's culture is not about skiing.'' 
 Mr. Chen, an irrepressible entrepreneur who worked the hallways like a Davos regular, is one of only four chief executives of major Chinese companies at this year's conference. He said more of his peers had come to previous meetings, but had found the experience uncomfortable.
 Zhao Jianfei, an editor at The Observer, a Shanghai-based magazine, said, ''In China, the basic idea is to watch Davos, not take part in it.'' People have other theories for why the Chinese do not turn out in droves. ''China is not exactly soliciting investment,'' said Stephan F. Newhouse, the president of Morgan Stanley. ''They're turning it away.''
 Mr. Huang dramatized China's potential with forecasts. Its economic output will grow to $4 trillion by 2020, from $1.6 trillion today, he said, and its output per capita -- a more accurate measure of wealth -- will triple to $3,000 per person.
 For its part, the World Economic Forum says the Chinese turnout this year has been noteworthy, mostly because of the attendance of Mr. Huang, a member of the Politburo's powerful standing committee. The deputy governor of the People's Bank of China also came.
 The conference organizers have gone to considerable lengths to make this a congenial place for China. There are no sessions on Taiwan -- a topic sure to drive away Chinese officials. Mr. Huang did not take questions from the audience.
 ''It's understood that some things about China don't come up in polite conversation at Davos,'' said Orville Schell, the dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Politesse did break down occasionally. At a lunch held by Mr. Schell, several non-Chinese participants confronted the handful of Chinese guests about how Beijing could justify not allowing the Taiwanese people to vote on whether they wanted to be an independent nation.
 After an awkward silence, a few Chinese spoke about the passionate feelings in China regarding Taiwan's status. Yuan Ming, the director of the Institute of American Studies at Beijing University, alluded to the frustration that outsiders might have in seeking to understand China.
 ''The world needs China to play some roles,'' Ms. Yuan said in a polite yet weary tone. ''But it's too early to rank ourselves among world nations. We do need some time to develop ourselves.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Huang Ju, vice prime minister, addressing leaders yesterday. (Photo by Pierre Verdy/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TRENDS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); HISTORY (65%); PROPERTY CRIMES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AIRLINES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Chinese Language; Currency

COMPANY: DELL INC (65%); HAINAN AIRLINES CO LTD (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%) World Economic Forum

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (65%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (58%); BILL GATES (56%); CHARLIE ROSE (55%) Mark Landler; Huang Ju (Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%) Davos (Switzerland); China

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



611 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: With Little for Sale, Frantic Buyers Push Up Prices

BYLINE: By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
THIS may be no consolation for search-addled apartment hunters addicted to checking the real estate Web sites hourly for new listings, but there are very few apartments for sale in the $20 million range, either. 
 From the stratospheric and record-breaking echelons of the market to the pedestrian pulse of stampeding open houses, hungry buyers are circling, ready to swoop in on any new listing and pay way above the asking price. If, that is, there were anything to buy. 
 The conclusion of the presidential election and the understanding that interest rates are bound to go up (even though that's what was anticipated last year and there was not a significant increase) have people so focused on buying now that they are showing up by the dozens for open houses in 15 inches of snow and waiting in line to see apartments over a three-day weekend when one would think the preferable alternative would be a weekend in Miami. 
 Is it a frenzy? 
 Do agents get worked up when they run out of showing sheets at open houses when four times as many people as they expect show up? Do buyers become even more aggressive when they repeatedly lose out on bids they placed over the asking price, including some as high as $300,000 above? You bet.
 A market report released earlier this month by Stribling Private Brokerage on the residential real estate market in the $4 million and above range said that the high-end market has not seen this kind of activity since 2000. The first quarter of 2004 started off with a blast but evened out in April, and the entire real estate market, from top to bottom, collectively held its breath last fall through the distraction of the presidential election. Then, people started buying real estate as if it were 2000 all over again. 
 ''As contentious as the election was,'' said Kirk Henckels, director and senior vice president of Stribling Private Brokerage and the author of the report, ''I don't think people cared as much about who won as they wanted a decisive winner.''
 President Bush's victory, he said, might have had a slight effect on the high end, encouraging more spending because of the favorable tax picture for the rich. 
 Last year, for the first time, more than $1 billion was spent on co-ops in New York priced over $4 million. That was up 59.5 percent from the $653 million spent in 2003. The momentum is continuing into the new year. In these first few weeks of 2005, there is already $484 million in pending co-op sales -- nearly half, in less than a month, of what was spent all of last year. 
 The highest segment of the market is also active. In 2004, 24 co-ops in Manhattan sold for more than $10 million, compared with 15 in 2003 and 18 in the previous peak of 2000. Several of the biggest deals took place in the second half of 2004 (with 13 co-ops and 5 town houses over $10 million sold in the first half and 11 co-ops and 11 town houses sold in the second half). 
 Even now, barely across the threshold of 2005, the numbers of sales above $10 million are set to top 2004. Currently, there are deals on 16 co-ops and 7 town houses pending, including some notable properties such as the $44 million offer for Laurance S. Rockefeller's apartment on Fifth Avenue, the $27 million pending sale for a condo at the One Beacon Court and a more-than-$20-million bid on Central Park West. ''They all go shopping together,'' Mr. Henckels said of this group, which is largely impervious to the machinations of the real estate market and spend when they feel comfortable with the way things are going in the world. 
 When Samantha Kleier Forbes, a vice president of Gumley Haft Kleier, held an open house for brokers to preview a $10.9 million penthouse at 1120 Park Avenue last week, she took 40 show sheets, figuring it would be more than adequate for the 10 or 12 people she expected. 
 ''Within the first 45 minutes we were out of show sheets,'' she said.
 Her sister, Sabrina Kleier Morgenstern, also a vice president with the firm, said she felt the heat from the buyers' perspective when she took a young couple to an open house in the 70's on the Upper East Side, where they jostled among the crowd of 30 other people, mostly young couples staking out corners of the place to have sotto voce conferences with brokers. The couple immediately wanted to bid on the $1.3 million property and liked it so much they raised the price by $300,000 and offered $1.6 million.
 They were outbid, with an offer of $1.695 million accepted. Ms. Morgenstern was even more surprised, in the days after the other offer was accepted, that the pending buyers didn't back out. ''I kept calling,'' she said, ''because I thought the people would have thought 'I overpaid drastically' and would have pulled out, but they didn't.''
 In the market for apartments priced at less than $1 million, agents are taking any property they can get their hands on to the market, pricing them slightly under what they consider a logical asking price, then standing back and watching as the hordes descend. To their surprise, nothing seems to stop a serious buyer, not wind or rain, or in the case of the last two weeks, not holidays or snow. 
 Ginger Brokaw, an agent for the Corcoran Group, held her open house last Sunday even with the city muted in a perilous sheath of snow. She didn't expect much.
 ''Here I am walking down the street with red tulips under my arm and a little scented candle,'' Ms. Brokaw said. ''I walked in the building full of earnest possibility. The doorman looked at me like some kind of pathetic little creature.''
 Not only did 25 people show up for the Upper East Side two-bedroom, two bathroom co-op priced at $975,000, she got an immediate offer within an hour of the open house. 
 ''I'm scared to answer my voice mail and hear 'You have 30 messages,''' she said. ''There are so may people calling to see the apartment. At this price point there aren't that many places out there.''
 While Ms. Brokaw was trudging through the snow, Gabriel Bedoya, a Corcoran agent, was playing in the snow. 
 ''For the first Sunday in a year and a half, I didn't have an open house,'' Mr. Bedoya said. But it was not because of the weather, it was because he didn't have any apartments left to show. Since the beginning of January, he said, he has accepted offers on nine properties. That is a huge increase over his volume last January, when he also had nine listings but only two accepted offers during the month, he said 
 The Sunday before last, during what he thought would be a long and quiet holiday weekend, he had the first showing of a one-bedroom duplex at 86th Street and Amsterdam Avenue during an open house. Expecting 25 people, he was stunned when he had 125 people come through. The line of people waiting to get in, which stretched down Amsterdam Avenue, was monitored by the building's concierge like a velvet-rope club with six people allowed in whenever six left.
 Even before the open house concluded, his cellphone was ringing with people calling from the hallway trying to place bids.
 On behalf of the sellers, Mr. Bedoya accepted an all-cash offer above the asking price of $549,000 within 24 hours, which is why when it snowed last weekend he could go sledding in Central Park.
 Haley Coward, an agent for Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy, said she couldn't cancel her open house last Sunday because she had 28 people pre-registered to see the $530,000 one-bedroom co-op with 1,000 square feet on West 94th Street near Columbus Avenue. 
 ''I didn't think all of them would come,'' she recalled. ''I certainly didn't think it was going to be that crowded. It was like a party.'' 
 She handed out cream puffs she had made while her boyfriend manned the door downstairs. More than 70 people came, and by Monday she had 13 offers. ''Right now we're looking at getting $60,000 to $70,000 over asking price,'' she said
 Caroline Guthrie, president of the high-end brokerage firm Edward Lee Cave, called the market ''frenetically static'' because there is so much activity with nothing to show.
 ''It is incredibly frustrating,'' Ms. Guthrie said. ''Buyers can't believe it. They must be thinking, 'You're not doing your job!' But there is nothing to show unless I've managed to get into something that isn't on the market.'' 
 ''There are very frustrated buyers and a lot of frustrated brokers out there,'' Ms. Guthrie said. Some sellers may feel elated, but many have to find another place. The only ones able to keep their heads, she said, are the owners who ''feel very good about their properties and have no intention of going anywhere.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WEATHER (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



612 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: The Geo-Green Alternative

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Davos, Switzerland 

 BODY:
One of the most striking things I've found in Europe these past two weeks is the absolute conviction that the Bush team is just itching to invade Iran to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons. Psssssssst. Come over here. A little closer. Now listen: Don't tell the Iranians this, but the Bush team isn't going to be invading anybody. We don't have enough troops to finish the job in Iraq. Our military budget is completely maxed out. We couldn't invade Grenada today. If Iran is to forgo developing nuclear weapons, it will only be because the Europeans' diplomatic approach manages to persuade Tehran to do so.
 For two years the Europeans have been telling the Bush administration that its use of force to prevent states from developing nuclear weapons has been a failure in Iraq and that the Europeans have a better way -- multilateral diplomacy using carrots and sticks. Well, Europe, as we say in American baseball, ''You're up.'' 
 ''I think this is an absolute test case for Europe's ability to lay out its own idea for a joint agenda with the United States to deal with a problem like Iran,'' said the Oxford historian Timothy Garton Ash, author of ''Free World: America, Europe and the Surprising Future of the West.'' ''O.K., we think bombing Iran is a bad idea. What is a good idea?'' For the Europeans to be successful, though, Mr. Ash said, they can't just be offering carrots. They have to credibly convey to Iran that they will wield their own stick. They have to credibly convey that they will refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for real sanctions, if it is unwilling to strike a deal involving nuclear inspections in return for normalized economic relations with the West.
 ''Very often there is the notion that Europe is the soft cop and the U.S. is the hard cop,'' Mr. Ash said. ''Here it must be the other way around. Europe has to talk as credibly about using economic sanctions as some in Washington have talked about using military force.'' 
 The U.S. has to help. The carrot the Iranians want for abandoning their nuclear program is not just unfettered trade with the West, but some kind of assurances that if they give up their nuclear research programs, the U.S. will agree to some kind of nonaggression accord. The Bush team has been reluctant to do this, because it wants regime change in Iran. (This is a mistake; we need to concentrate for now on changing the behavior of the Iranian regime and strengthening the reformers, and letting them handle the regime change.) 
 If multilateral diplomacy is to work to defuse the brewing Iran nuclear crisis, ''the Europeans have to offer a more credible stick and the Americans need to offer a more credible carrot,'' Mr. Ash said. But the Europeans are not good at credibly threatening force.
 That's why this is a serious moment. If Britain, France and Germany, which are spearheading Europe's negotiations with Iran, fail, and if the U.S. use of force in Iraq (even if it succeeds) proves way too messy, expensive and dangerous to be repeated anytime soon, where are we? Is there any other way the West can promote real reform in the Arab-Muslim world?
 Yes, there is an alternative to the Euro-wimps and the neocons, and it is the ''geo-greens.'' I am a geo-green. The geo-greens believe that, going forward, if we put all our focus on reducing the price of oil -- by conservation, by developing renewable and alternative energies and by expanding nuclear power -- we will force more reform than by any other strategy. You give me $18-a-barrel oil and I will give you political and economic reform from Algeria to Iran. All these regimes have huge population bubbles and too few jobs. They make up the gap with oil revenues. Shrink the oil revenue and they will have to open up their economies and their schools and liberate their women so that their people can compete. It is that simple.
 By refusing to rein in U.S. energy consumption, the Bush team is not only depriving itself of the most effective lever for promoting internally driven reform in the Middle East, it is also depriving itself of any military option. As Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, points out, given today's tight oil market and current U.S. consumption patterns, any kind of U.S. strike on Iran, one of the world's major oil producers, would send the price of oil through the roof, causing real problems for our economy. ''Our own energy policy has tied our hands,'' Mr. Haass said.
 The Bush team's laudable desire to promote sustained reform in the Middle East will never succeed unless it moves from neocon to geo-green. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); HISTORY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BASEBALL (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN (73%) Iran; Europe; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



613 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK BLOGS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Duel For the Dirt

BYLINE: By JAY DIXIT

 BODY:
TO media voyeurs, the name Elizabeth Spiers inspires awe. Ms. Spiers is the original ''Gawker'' -- the founding editor of New York's most popular gossip blog, the pioneer of the site's dark obsession with New York media, and the exemplar of the snarky tone that bloggers the world over try to imitate. 
 Now, after a foray into the print world at New York magazine, Ms. Spiers, a wry Alabamian, is returning to online gossip. In October she took a job at Mediabistro.com where, among other things, she will start up a media gossip blog called FishBowlNY and serve as its co-author. Among her chief rivals is Gawker.com itself, which is now edited by a cheerful 24-year-old named Jessica Coen and is still a daily addiction for the gossip hungry and media elite. 
 The face-off begins tomorrow when Mediabistro, largely a journalist networking site, unveils FishBowlNY and several other new blogs. The rivalry falls squarely into the grand New York tradition of competing for the juiciest bits of gossip. This being the new millennium, the battle is being raged not in screaming tabloids but in cyberspace. 
 But Ms. Spiers's nemesis at Gawker is not without resources. Ms. Coen earned her gossip wings just weeks after being snatched out of Columbia Journalism School's class of 2005, scooping other blogs and traditional media alike. And Gawker's readership, which has been steadily growing, now numbers a million a month. 
 Though Ms. Coen is not personally obsessed with gossip, she knows its power. ''When Tara Reid's breasts fall down, I'm not like, 'Oh, thank God!''' she said. ''But it's the kind of thing that once it goes up on Gawker, it's a record-setting day of traffic.'' 
 As the two blogs prepare to compete, they clearly mean business. 
 ''I hope we do it better, we scoop them, and we post first,'' Ms. Spiers said.
 Nick Denton, the entrepreneur behind Gawker and its sister sites, dismissed the competition. ''I'd be more worried if a no-name site run by a no-name journalist suddenly emerged,'' he said, ''much in the way that Gawker did two years ago.'' 
 As in many such rivalries, the barbs can get personal. Laurel Touby, Mediabistro's founder, has been a frequent target of Gawker's slings and arrows. When a departing Mediabistro editor neglected to invite Ms. Touby to his farewell party, Ms. Coen reprinted an e-mail message to the staff from Ms. Touby in which the snubbed cyberhostess fumed, ''I have to insist that you not attend this farce of a party.'' 
 And two months before Ms. Touby's wedding, Gawker noticed that she had forgotten to deactivate her personal profile on JDate, the Jewish singles site, and linked to it, snarking, ''Now we know how to snare a new media goddess.'' 
 Such comments come with the territory, of course. It was none other than Ms. Spiers who said that ''class warfare as recreational sport'' was one of Gawker's main topics of interest, and she had a willing audience in the many young members of the media who felt they were slaving away to enrich the upper echelons at Conde Nast and other companies. Thanks to Gawker, Conde Nasties finally fight back, sending anonymous tips about what Anna Wintour said in the elevator or whether Graydon Carter was or wasn't on the list at a nightclub. Never mind accountability; it was the Web. 
 In this kind of sparring, turnabout is fair play. Just weeks after Ms. Spiers's hiring at Mediabistro, Gawker poked fun at the tone she took in another clash of the classes. Responding to complaints that Mediabistro publishes freelancers' essays without paying them, Ms. Spiers wrote: ''These things are pretty straightforward economic issues. If what we're supplying isn't sufficient to meet what you're demanding, then obviously, you're not buying. I don't walk by a Mercedes dealership and complain that the prices are exploitative; I just don't buy it.''
 A bulletproof point, but to some freelancers her market-forces rationale made her sound like one of the media overlords she'd once zealously skewered. One freelancer responded: ''Let me explain in simpler terms what Elizabeth is saying. Newbie writers are essentially like illegal immigrants, or mine workers in pre-union times, or underage children in third world sweatshops. It's fair to exploit them because they are willing to be exploited.'' Gawker quickly reprinted excerpts and awarded Ms. Spiers an ironic ''gold medal for bravery.''
 But if verbal jousting plays a role in the rivalry that starts tomorrow, at least the two companies will not compete on every front. While Ms. Spiers's blog is focused solely on New York media, Gawker offers celebrity sightings, entertainment tips and gleeful dispatches about the likes of Paris Hilton and the Olsen twins. ''We're not going to be covering Brad and Jen,'' Ms. Touby said. ''Though we may cover the coverage.'' 
 And in Ms. Spiers's eyes, it is not just a two-blog fight. ''Our competition for this New York media blog is partially Gawker, but it's also hugely the trades, Romenesko, and anybody who does media reporting.'' 
 Moreover, data from other blog rivalries suggest that both combatants may win. ''One of the few infinitely renewable resources seems to be Americans' attraction to gossip,'' said Dan Gillmor, a columnist who specializes in the media. ''And media people can't get enough of gossip about ourselves.''
 But even if her new blog doesn't make money, Ms. Touby sees another possible benefit. ''They pick on me all the time,'' she said of Gawker. ''After this, they won't want to give us any more press at all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW GAWKER -- Jessica Coen (Photo by Jennifer Carlson)
 ORIGINAL GAWKER -- Elizabeth Spiers (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MILLENNIUM (66%) News and News Media; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Gossip

ORGANIZATION: Gawker.com; Mediabistro.com; Fishbowlny (Web Log)

PERSON: Jay Dixit; Elizabeth Spiers; Jessica Coen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



614 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Riding Into the Red

BYLINE: By CLIFTON HOOD. 
Clifton Hood, a history professor at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, is the author of ''722 Miles: The Building of the Subways and How They Transformed New York.''

 BODY:
EVER since last Sunday, when a fire, possibly set by a homeless person, disrupted service on the A and C subway lines, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has been taking a lot of heat. Everyone's complaining. First, came the shock over how vulnerable the subway's signaling system is. Then there were the cries of disbelief at how long the repairs would take. 
 But what all these criticisms miss is the underlying financial predicament that has deprived New York's subway system of money needed for maintenance and improvements. And the situation is unlikely to improve with a Republican in Albany and another one in the White House. 
 For most of its 100-year history, the subway has experienced financial crises that have resulted in deferred maintenance and impaired passenger service. New York's first subway, which entered service in 1904, was financed by a public agency and leased and operated by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company. In 1913, a second firm, the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company (later Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit) signed a contract to run a subway system. But rising inflation after World War I caused both companies to teeter in and out of bankruptcy. 
 In 1932, the city started its own subway network, the Independent Subway System, to compete with the two private companies, which were widely detested for their poor service. In 1940, after the Great Depression had further devastated the subways, the City of New York unified the three networks into a single, municipally run system. 
 Unification did not end the subway's financial troubles, however, and in 1953, the state, looking to end ever-growing subsidies and eliminate direct municipal operation of the system, created the New York City Transit Authority. Determined to establish businesslike management of the subway system, the Transit Authority permitted fare increases and service reductions. 
 In the 1970's and 1980's, post-Vietnam inflation, along with competition from automobiles, created another financial crisis. From a peak of two billion riders in 1947, rapid transit ridership fell to less than one billion in the early 1990's. By then, the trains were mechanically unreliable, the stations dilapidated and the system crime-ridden. The economic boom at the end of the century with the accompanying rise in revenue that could go to the system helped, but with the slump after 9/11, the strains in the subway's financing became more apparent. 
 But it isn't just the economy; federal policy is at fault, too. Compared with every other major rapid transit line in the world, New York's subway receives surprisingly little aid from the national government. The Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964 initiated federal financing for the construction of subways and light rail systems. But because federal subsidies have promoted the construction of new lines rather than the rehabilitation of old ones, New York City has had to maintain its aging subway system largely by itself.
 Since 1982, the Transit Authority (now an arm of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority) has used state-issued bonds to revitalize the subways by replacing or overhauling more than 6,000 cars, rehabilitating more than 140 stations and rebuilding main-line tracks. The signaling system needed attention, too, but money was limited and used for shiny new trains. The authority had hoped that more noticeable improvements would increase ridership and, thus, revenue, which would allow it to issue more bonds. But that didn't happen; ridership didn't rise as much as expected.
 The only thing that is surprising about this crisis is that it surprises us. The subway's chronic financial problems have never been fixed, and its renewal is now imperiled by fiscal pressures facing a city government that has greater needs and yet commands fewer resources than before. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who rides the subways himself, has been trying to obtain more state money, but Albany has been of little help. Gov. George E. Pataki's newly proposed budget was a disappointment for the city, and the subway's financial pressures will be only increased by his administration's preferences for commuter lines that serve the suburbs where Republican voters live. And these financial pressures will not be relieved by the Bush administration, which makes selective use of its small-government rhetoric to justify its disdain for big cities with a majority of Democratic voters.
 So for now, it all boils down to this: the New York subway system will be forced to chug along, and straphangers will have to deal with it, just as they have for the last century. 




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); WORLD WAR I (52%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Fires and Firefighters; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Clifton Hood

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



615 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: The Artist's Perfect Day Job? It's the One Too Good to Quit

BYLINE: By COELI CARR

 BODY:
Angela Workman's goal for the near future is getting a record deal. Ms. Workman, who toured with Ray Charles as a Raelette background vocalist from 1985 through 1995, has since sung background vocals for Prince, George Clinton and Eminem and has already written the lyrics and recorded nine songs for ''Moonflowers,'' a pop-jazz project that she is producing with the keyboardist of the band Spyro Gyra. 
 These activities, however, occupy only part of her life. For nearly four years, Ms. Workman has had a full-time day job as a receptionist at Tishman Speyer Properties, the Midtown real estate developer that is joint owner and manager of Rockefeller Center. 
 It may be time to consider retiring the stereotype of the frenzied aspiring artist who, between gigs, jumps from one low-level job to another. Many artists have decided they want a more balanced life -- one that includes a regular salary and medical benefits.
 ''Sheer struggle can open a veil of creativity, but so can discipline,'' Ms. Workman said. ''I love my art even more, because I don't have to worry, 'Am I going to have a roof over my head? Am I going to have a meal today?''' 
 Ms. Workman acknowledges she is lucky. Her supervisors at Tishman Speyer were well aware of her musical talent when they hired her. During the time she has worked there, she has assembled groups of background vocalists -- and even costumed them -- for some of her employer's high-profile events, like the Christmas tree lighting ceremony, and has done voiceovers for the telecommunications department. But it is a two-way street. Late last year, when she had an opportunity to sing with Ben E. King at the Mount Fuji Jazz Festival in Japan, the company gave her the time off. 
 ''They were so supportive,'' she said, adding that few of her artist friends in full-time jobs enjoy the same flexibility. ''They're not happy. They're pretty much shattering their artistry.''
 Christine Panzella, the Manhattan branch manager of Lloyd's Staffing, a full-service employment agency, has noticed that an increasing number of the artists among her applicants want full-time rather than temp jobs. Discouraged because it is taking longer than they planned to become successful in their fields, these people feel ''they might as well get something more permanent,'' she said, especially because temporary work offers no financial guarantees. ''They have to rethink their way of 'I need to make a living.''' 
 This re-evaluation is becoming typical, even before musicians, actors and other artists step into the work force.
 Trudy Steinfeld, executive director of the Office of Career Services at New York University, says students of the creative arts are more pragmatic than they were in more flush economic times. ''It's a dilemma,'' she said. ''They know, realistically, that being an artist and being somebody who has administrative and business skills are not two divergent things.'' 
 Ms. Steinfeld said her staff helped students combine those skills, suggesting ''different combinations of work that will allow them to apply themselves in the arts.'' 
 Bo Corre, who grew up in Stockholm and studied in New York at the Stella Adler Conservatory of Acting and in London at the Webber Douglass Academy of Dramatic Art, has found that being a florist is a good way to balance her professional goals with a more predictable livelihood. Ms. Corre, who performed in a BBC series and played the title role in the Obie Award-winning play ''Molly's Dream'' at the SoHo Repertory Theater in 2003, works three or four days a week at Polux Fleuriste in Lower Manhattan, a place she calls ''a wonderful little paradise.'' 
 Having found waitressing mentally exhausting and office work not to her liking, Ms. Corre creates floral arrangements at Polux.
 ''It's a luxury when you work with your senses,'' Ms. Corre said. ''I get 100 percent stimulation from these flowers. I'm in touch with something that's alive and beautiful. That feeds me as an actor.'' She's quick to praise the business's owner, Anouchka Levy, who ''totally respects and encourages us and appreciates our commitment to our artistic skills.'' Ms. Corre's four co-workers -- two painters, a dressmaker and a doll maker -- also have flexible schedules to allow them to take time off.
 For artists, supportive employers have become as valuable as patrons. 
 Logan Grider, who came to New York a little over a year ago after receiving a B.F.A. in painting from the Art Institute of Chicago, has a full-time job as an assistant manager in the paper department at Pearl Paint on Canal Street. ''I knew there were a lot of artists working there,'' he said of his decision to apply for a position. ''It's a really good environment for that.'' 
 Mr. Logan, who paints in the evening -- and now mostly on paper rather than canvas (''I've learned a lot more about paper and now I'm quite the paper snob,'' he said) -- is sustained by conversing with his colleagues and customers about painting. He also prefers financial predictability. ''I like stability and need regular paychecks,'' he said. ''I just don't know if I'd want a job that didn't offer that.''
 But no matter how salutary the artist's rent-paying work situation, it is still a tough road. ''It's enormously challenging to advance your own artistry in an environment where you're holding down a full-time job, which may or may not relate to your abiding interest or art form,'' said James Bundy, dean of the Yale School of Drama and artistic director of the Yale Repertory Theater. 
 He suggested, however, that knowing you're being the best that you can be at your art, while you're holding a regular job and waiting for that big break, can help enormously. ''If your day job allows you to audition, and you go to the audition with the full and free confidence of your training and preparedness, that's very different from the experience you might have when you feel you have to play catch-up in terms of your craft.'' 
 That confidence also makes for a more desirable employee. An applicant will not win points by displaying desperation or bitter resignation at having to take on a 9-to-5 job -- if, as Ms. Workman put it, ''a person comes into an interview with a potential employer with this distraught, sad look on their face, like, 'I can't believe I'm here.''' 
 Ms. Workman says the enthusiasm an artist radiates on stage or in the studio -- or in any creative arena -- needs to translate into a more mundane setting. ''Attitude is everything,'' she said, describing how to thrive in a corporate environment. ''Guess who's buying your CD's and going to your movies? These are the people I work with every day. This is my public. 
 ''When I walk in, I'm not looking at it as a sentence. I look at it as a privilege to be so close to a public that I want to perform for.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Angela Workman, a vocalist and songwriter, says she is lucky to have a full-time job as a receptionist for a property management company that allows her time for her music. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SONG WRITING (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); CHRISTMAS (63%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (50%) Labor; Music; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: Tishman Speyer Properties

PERSON: Coeli Carr; Angela Workman; Ray (1930-2004) Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



616 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: It Is About the Bike

BYLINE: By Edward Koren. 
Edward Koren is a longtime artist for The New Yorker.

 BODY:

BICYCLE
The History.
By David V. Herlihy.
Illustrated. 470 pp. Yale University Press. $35.
 As an addicted cyclist, I must come clean about a certain ambivalence concerning David V. Herlihy's first book. While ''Bicycle'' is immensely absorbing, I was often compelled to put it aside. It was as if the author himself were imploring me to take a break and come outside and play. A passage cited from an editorial in Brooklyn Life in 1895, written during the height of the cycling boom, nicely conveys the fealty to our mechanical mounts that I and many others have today: ''A ride in its saddle is the perfection of motion and the acme of gentle exercise. Once there, a man or woman wants to be there most of their time. The desire grows. And this is the reason why bicycling is not a fad, but something that is going to last so long as men and women have legs.''
 Herlihy's descriptions of the bicycle's birth start with very early efforts to replace the horse with a human-powered mechanical substitute that would not only surpass the animal in speed and practicality but also be widely affordable -- what would come to be known as the ''people's nag.'' The first primitive human-powered mechanical horse -- the draisine or velocipede (Latin for ''fast foot'') -- was introduced in Germany by Karl von Drais in 1817, and quickly after in France, England and the United States. The rider sat in a saddle, supported by a brace suspended between two equally sized carriage wheels. Propulsion was provided by the rider, walking or running, much like the present-day two-wheeled child's scooter, dependent on pushing away with a foot on the ground for momentum. Drais estimated that the draisine could achieve a speed of 5 or 6 miles per hour at a walking gait; running, it could reach up to 12 miles an hour.
 The American portraitist Charles Wilson Peale was enamored of the velocipede. Peale used his ''as a welcome diversion from his arduous painting projects,'' Herlihy writes. ''Whenever his back began to ache, he would take a few spins atop his velocipede in the 'salubrious air' of his garden, and return to his easel thoroughly invigorated.''
 Because of a multitude of obstacles -- social, economic and technological -- the velocipede sputtered to the end of its usefulness rather quickly. But it did encourage and energize the search for a truly workable human-powered vehicle and served as an inspiration for the modern bicycle. The breakthrough occurred in France in 1867, during what Herlihy calls the ''boneshaker'' era. With the addition of a rudimentary mechanical crank and pedals attached to the front wheel's hub, the rider propelled himself forward using pedals rather than his feet, and could stop by pedaling backward, or, with fancier machines, activate a brake consisting of a metal spoon pressed to the iron tire of the rear wheel. The machine caught on very quickly, and became, according to La Vie Parisienne, ''the amusement of golden youth and the dream of employees.'' The Paris correspondent of The New York Times described the bicycle, still called the velocipede, as being able to easily attain 12 miles per hour, achieve ''great economy of time as well as money'' and ''immense development of muscle and lung,'' and foster ''independence of character,'' giving urban dwellers personal mobility and freedom. In an observation that could well be written today, the dispatch concluded: ''Is it not absurd, is it not a disgrace to the inventive age we live in, to see a man obliged to employ, in order to get through the street, a great vehicle, as large almost as a house? So let us have the velocipedes.''
 In 1868, ''the velocipede craze reached new heights throughout France,'' Herlihy says. ''It is extraordinary what strides the mania for these machines is making here,'' a British correspondent in Paris wrote. ''Not only does one meet them flying down the Champs-Elysees and along the Rue de Rivoli, but many miles from Notre-Dame one sees them scudding along interminable white country roads.'' 
 By early 1869, these first bicycles caught on in the United States, and The New York Times reported, ''Never before in the history of manufactures in this country has arisen such a demand for an article.'' Henry Ward Beecher rhapsodized that riding was ''rational recreation'' and, Herlihy writes, predicted that ''his flock would soon pedal its way to his services.'' The journalist Charles A. Dana, another ardent bicycle enthusiast, proposed an elevated bicycle path to run the length of Manhattan. But by the end of 1869, enthusiasm for the bicycle faltered, then died. The passionate interest was based on its promise as cheap, efficient transportation and as a means of healthy recreation, neither of which had been realized. The promise would have to wait for another generation of technologically improved machines. 
 The high mount, a new style of bicycle using wire-spoke wheels and rubber tires, with very large front wheels (up to five feet) and very small rear ones (no more than 16 inches), became popular in England in the early 1870's. They were much faster than any bicycle to date, but they were not practical machines. Because of the bicycle's expense and difficulty in riding, it was the domain of an elite group of athletic and well-to-do young men. As the secretary of the Amateur Bicycle Club declared, the mission of his organization was to promote the sport of bicycling among the ''upper, middle and higher classes of society.'' By the late 1870's, the high wheeler had migrated from Britain to Europe and North America. And it improved with constantly evolving technological innovations, like ball bearings, lighter speed frames and tubing in the front forks. But because of its unwieldy size, it was prone to accidents that plagued even the hearty athletes who rode it (Herlihy notes Mark Twain's arduous, perilous and funny efforts to master the high wheel recounted in his essay ''Taming the Bicycle''). 
 After the limited success of the high wheel in the 1870's came the ''safety'' era -- the development of the bicycle style that is the most direct ancestor of our present bicycle. Safety came in the size of the bike: two wheels of equal size powered by pedals connected to a chain that propelled the rear wheel. Unlike the perilous high-wheeler, the new style was close to the ground and easy to ride. Herlihy is at his best weaving together the technical improvements that made this machine so desirable (the pneumatic tire and the diamond frame, to name just two) and the social changes that resulted from its widespread acceptance (in 1895 alone, one million riders across American society became cyclists). I was particularly taken with the details of how the components that grace our contemporary machines -- including wire spokes, tire and rim refinements, the freewheel, coaster and hand brakes, planetary gears and derailleurs -- were developed. 
 Herlihy's prodigious research is always entertaining, as are the period illustrations that copiously grace the volume. There are bicycle tales, like an account from Bicycling World in 1908 about Harvard's septuagenarian president, Charles W. Eliot, who cycled the several miles between his home and his office: ''Every clear morning'' Eliot ''jumps on his bicycle . . . like a boy in his teens.'' Theodore Roosevelt, New York's police commissioner, commented in 1896 on the ''extraordinary proficiency'' of the department's squad of cyclists. And we learn that the bicycle was instrumental in the early technologies of the automobile and the airplane: the pioneer automakers Henry Ford and Charles Duryea were bicycle mechanics, and the Wright brothers, who had a bicycle repair shop in Dayton, Ohio, used bicycle parts like chains and ball bearings in the Wright Flyer, which they built in their bike shop. 
 While reading ''Bicycle,'' I was all too often overcome with the desire to jump on my own machine. I would relish having David V. Herlihy as my cycling companion any day.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cyclists on high-wheelers in a print by Hy Sandham, about 1887
 below left, a poster by Edward Penfield, about 1897. (Photograph by The Library of Congress/from ''Bicycle'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CYCLING (79%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); WALKING & JOGGING (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES A WILSON (50%) Edward Koren; David V Herlihy

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (78%); UNITED STATES (68%); FRANCE (68%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



617 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: As Housing Costs Rise, Nimbyism Is Slipping

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
WITH growing urgency, civic groups and politicians have been warning that the rise in housing costs on Long Island is a dire problem, that younger workers can't afford to live on the Island and that the resulting ''brain drain'' is casting a shadow on the region's economy. According to a new poll by the Rauch Foundation of Garden City, the warnings are sinking in.
 The poll found that 89 percent of Long Island residents were concerned about the issue, with 42 percent describing themselves as extremely concerned. The anxiety crossed all distinctions of race, age, income or education, the poll found, and was more acute than in the other New York City suburbs, which were surveyed for comparison's sake. Only 28 percent of respondents in New Jersey and the northern suburbs described themselves as extremely concerned about the problem.
 But though the survey suggests a population united in its diagnosis of Long Island's problems, opinions diverge when it comes to the remedy. And another new study, by the Long Island Regional Planning Board, even questions the existence of a root cause of all the concern: the brain drain. 
 The Census Bureau reported that Long Island experienced a 20 percent decline in its 18-to-34-year-old age group from 1990 to 2000, a drop five times the national average. But the Regional Planning Board study, which was released this month, suggested that the decline was not due to an exodus, but to a dip in the number of births 20 years ago. The study also questioned the logic that housing costs have driven away the young, pointing to a swell in the population of Suffolk County over the past few years.
 ''The increase of 20-34-year-olds in Suffolk County of 4,000 between 2000 and 2003 has occurred as median home prices have risen from $201, 470 to $333, 521,'' the study said. ''Why, if home prices were such an important determination of location, would we not see a continuation of decline in this age group?''
 But the brain drain, whether real or perceived, has apparently struck a chord with Long Island residents, said Nancy Rauch Douzinas, the president of the Rauch Foundation. 
 ''The brain drain is really a symptom of what is happening,'' she said. ''The brain drain is related to lack of affordable housing, to the kinds of jobs we have here, to the fact that there's no transportation to get to the jobs.''
 The poll is part of the second annual Long Island Index, a report the Rauch Foundation sponsored in a joint project with academic, civic, business and labor groups. The index, which was formally released on Thursday, draws statistics from the census, economic reports and other data sources, as well as from the poll, which was conducted by the Stony Brook University Center for Survey Research from July 13 to Aug. 21 last year. Results were based on responses from 1,106 adults on Long Island, 302 in New Jersey suburban counties and 305 in the northern suburbs, including Rockland, Orange, Westchester and Fairfield counties. The margin of error was 3.5 percentage points on Long Island and 5.6 percentage points in the other suburban areas.
 Though the Long Island Index covers topics from mass transit ridership to pesticide use, there is a chosen topic each year that receives particular attention. Last March, when members of the report's advisory committee met to discuss possible topics for this year, they noticed that the reaction to the last year's report had especially fixed on the brain drain idea, Ms. Douzinas said. After looking at several other topics, the committee concluded that the brain drain and the other issues were shaped by a more fundamental one: land use. 
 The report says only 67,000 acres of vacant, developable land remain on the Island, a tenth of its total land area or roughly the size of the Town of Islip. The report predicted that in 2050 only 6,000 acres of vacant, developable land would remain. 
 Housing is far and away the main acreage eater, accounting for nearly half of Long Island's land. The report showed that from 1980 to 2000, residential development expanded by about 47,000 acres, nearly twice the area of expansion by commercial, industrial and institutional development combined. During those years, the amount of vacant and agricultural land declined by 40 percent.
 Accelerating the trend is the fact that Long Island residents, who have been fleeing New York City for more space since World War II, have always craved single-family homes. Eighty-six percent of the poll respondents on the Island said they lived in single-family homes, while the number was just under 70 percent in the other suburban areas. 
 With millions of dollars in public money being spent to preserve open space from development, and with some municipalities setting higher minimum acreage requirements for new property, the land that is left is being claimed at an ever faster rate. How that affects housing prices is just basic economics.
 ''The land use patterns that in one sense made all that growth possible in the early 50's have now become unsustainable,'' said Carrie Meek Gallagher, the report's director.
 Though they have long been an issue on Long Island, housing costs seem to have become a more urgent issue after they were coupled with the brain drain idea. In the index released last year, 61 percent of respondents thought the departure of young people because of housing costs was a serious problem. In this year's report, that figure was 89 percent.
 ''The willingness of more and more Long Islanders to understand the importance of the workforce housing issue to both the quality of life on Long Island and the economy on Long Island is very, very helpful and hopeful,'' said Mitchell Pally, vice president for government affairs for the Long Island Association, the largest business association on the Island and a leading campaigner for affordable housing initiatives. ''More and more people are either being affected directly by it or know people who are being affected directly by it.''
 Seven in 10 of those surveyed on the Island were concerned that the high cost of housing would force members of their family to leave their county. In New Jersey, only 64 percent were concerned and in the northern suburbs, 59 percent.
 The poll showed that many Long Island residents are open to new housing policies. Building rental apartments in downtown areas, for example, won broad support, as did requiring developers to set aside a portion of new projects for affordable housing. While this may indicate a decline of the Nimby mentality, a closer look at the poll makes this conclusion harder to draw. 
 In one question, respondents were asked whether they would support a proposal to build housing on former industrial, commercial or government sites no longer in use. Around three-fourths supported the idea. But when asked whether they would support a change in zoning laws to allow a limited increase in the number of apartments or town houses in areas zoned for single-family homes, less than half said yes, with only 18 percent describing themselves as strong supporters.
 ''As long as you propose something other than single-family detached in a residential area, you're dead in the water,'' said Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
 A slight majority of Long Islanders supported allowing two-family housing in an area currently reserved for single-family housing within a mile of their homes. But a majority opposed a low-rise apartment building within a mile. Higher buildings were also unpopular. In every category, homeowners were less open to such changes than those who did not own homes.
 In the poll, questions about support for lower-cost housing referred to it as ''affordable middle-class and starter housing.'' 
 ''We did try to make it very clear that we were not trying to get people's opinion about low income or public housing,'' Ms. Gallagher said. 
 But in the 2004 Rauch Foundation poll, the question was posed more directly. Respondents were asked what they thought about ''having more housing available in your community to those who earn less than $60,000,'' and specifically mentioned ''lower-income families.'' Even so, 65 percent had a favorable reaction, with only 22 percent opposed. 
 But Ms. Gallagher said it was difficult to truly gauge attitudes when the questions are hypothetical.
 ''It's hard to determine until you have an actual development project that's going to happen,'' she said. ''It's hard to get people's real reactions.'' Despite the wording of this year's poll, the negative connotations of affordable housing seemed to be on many minds. A majority agreed that likely consequences of affordable housing could include higher local taxes and increased traffic, but also declining school quality, lower property values and an influx of the ''wrong kind of people.'' 
 The most pervasive obstacle to supporting affordable housing policies, the report said, was an anticipated decline in school quality. Respondents who linked affordable housing with declining schools were likely to oppose most of the specific policy proposals, which could indicate that some still associate affordable housing with images of urban decay.
 Dr. Koppelman said that the shortage of moderately priced homes was being widely portrayed as merely a brain drain problem. But the need went much deeper, he said, though into less politically safe territory.
 ''In terms of our need for affordability, let me point out that we need this housing not only for the middle-class worker, we need it for the senior citizens, we need it for the working poor and we need it for the disabled poor,'' he said.
 Future battles may also be seen in the answers to questions about open space. Though a 77 percent majority supported a county policy of purchasing land and preserving it as open space, support dwindled somewhat when more detailed questions were asked.
 One does not have to look far to find a possible cause: more than two-thirds of respondents thought that open space purchases would be likely to raise house prices. As a logical consequence, opinions fell along certain lines.
 ''Those in the lowest income bracket,'' the survey reported, ''were less supportive of government purchase of land for preservation purposes, as were younger people.'' Blacks and Hispanics were also less inclined to support the policy.
 One question asked whether residents would support a $60 property tax increase to support an open space program. People with graduate level degrees supported the idea by 71 percent to 25 percent. Those with no high school opposed the idea by 50 percent to 41 percent.
 This tension between widely shared open space ambitions and affordable housing needs could grow as the land squeeze gets tighter.
 ''It's going to be a war zone,'' Dr. Koppelman said. Any doubt about how resistant Long Island residents are to an influx of more people, he said, should be dispelled by the recent bond referendums. Long Island residents are shown by the report to be paying among the highest taxes in the country, and 93 percent of those polled said that high property taxes were a serious problem. Yet, this past year, they voted for $255 million in new debt to preserve undeveloped land.
 ''You can't get a clearer indication than that we're willing to spend our own money to keep more development away from us,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sasha Meret)Graph: ''Brain Drain or Statistical Blip?''Last year, the Long Island Index found that 18- to 34-year-olds were leaving Nassau and Suffolk counties partly because of high housing costs, noting a 20 percent decrease for that age group between 1990 and 2000. A study released this month by the Long Island Regional Planning Board suggests that the decline among 20- to 34-year-olds was due to a dip in the birth rate 20 years ago.Graph tracks Nassau and Suffolk Population by Age Group since 1960.(Source by Long Island Regional Planning Board)(pg. 5)Chart ''Too Costly for Comfort'' shows statistics from the census and a poll of residents of Long Island. (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); CENSUS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Labor; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%) Rauch Foundation

PERSON: Campbell Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



618 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2033 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneurs or Tax Evaders?

BYLINE: By SELIM ALGAR

 BODY:
A HARDENED son of arid central Turkey, Emre Akpinar was no stranger to deprivation. But indignity was another matter.
 Mr. Akpinar said the distinction crystallized the first night he spent in a Brentwood gas station. Marinating in fumes, the 32-year-old immigrant, fresh off the plane from Ankara, remembers settling down on his mattress, gazing up at the blackened underbelly of a hoisted car that was being serviced. It became a nightly feature of his new existence in America for more than a year.
 ''I didn't expect a luxury hotel, but I wasn't ready for that either,'' he said of his living arrangement. ''In Turkey a lot of people are poor but they still can make their homes respectable. This wasn't respectable and there was nothing I could do to make it respectable.'' 
 Mr. Akpinar is but one face in a niche that Turks have carved out of the Long Island economy. Kemal Karpat, a history professor who has studied Long Island's Turks and owns a home in Quogue, estimated that 25,000 Turks have settled on the Island over the past two decades, and said the majority rely on jobs at area gas stations. Bob Santasiero, a spokesman for the Long Island Gas Retailers Association, said that of 1,800 gas stations on the Island, about 300 are owned and operated by Turkish merchants. 
 ''I would say that for the last 12 or 13 years they have really gotten into this business,'' Mr. Santasiero said. The gas station business has made successful men out of many of these newcomers, most of whom arrive with scant education and little capital, and has given rise to Turkish communities in places like Medford and Huntington. The largest Turkish enclaves in America are in Brooklyn and Queens, but the Turkish Embassy in Washington points to the Long Island outposts with pride, describing their achievements as classic American success stories born of entrepreneurial drive, hard work and pluck.
 But the previously inconspicuous Turkish community on the Island has been placed in an uncomfortable spotlight in recent months. Last July, federal agents raided 140 Turkish-owned gas stations in Nassau and Suffolk counties, arresting 57 people in what the authorities described as a multimillion-dollar operation to evade federal income and New York State gasoline taxes.
 Law enforcement authorities said the 140 gas stations, all owned by the same four Turkish-born partners, evaded New York State's 15.2-cent-a-gallon gross receipt gasoline tax by trucking gasoline in from New Jersey, which has no such tax.
 ''We found that they laundered big sums of money and then transferred the funds abroad,'' said Joe Foy, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''This constitutes tax evasion, illegal transfer of money abroad and a violation of foreign exchange regulations.''
 Mr. Santasiero said that an average tanker truck can carry about 10,000 gallons of gasoline per trip. That works out to roughly $1,500 in savings per bootleg tanker. ''When you run two or three trucks a day to your gas stations, the money really adds up,'' Mr. Santasiero said.
 The practice is more common, Mr. Santasiero said, at smaller independent stations that can shutter quickly and then move on to a new location if they are caught with bootleg gas. None of the 140 raided places were major-brand stations. 
 Adding a new dimension to the problem is the fact that the bootleg gasoline contains MTBE, an additive that increases the octane rating and cuts air pollution. It is legal in New Jersey but was outlawed in New York State at the start of 2004 after it was found to be contaminating groundwater, which on the Island is the sole source of public drinking water supplies. Station owners face a $10,000 fine for each pump found to contain the pollutant. The silver lining is that MTBE-added bootleg gasoline can be detected by a quick chemical test. This month, the authorities swept into several more stations, at least one of them (in Massapequa) owned by Turks, that were alleged to be selling gasoline containing MTBE. Federal officials have warned that more raids on Long Island gas stations are likely to follow.
 ''I would say that 15 to 20 percent of gas stations on Long Island are using bootlegged gas,'' Mr. Santasiero said. ''I've been in this business for 42 years and I can tell you that it's a big problem.''
 For a community that had tiptoed its way toward assimilation, the negative attention has been unsettling. Local Turks, most of whom are Muslims, have had minor troubles before, especially in the wake of 9/11. Arabs, not Turks, mounted the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks, but several Turkish gas station clerks were threatened and harassed and the Galatasaray Club, a hangout in Rocky Point for fans of the Istanbul soccer team of the same name, was vandalized.
 Those tensions subsided, but the gas station crackdown has cast the community in a harsh light. ''I think there is the feeling that we may be targeted,'' said Temel Artukmac, a former gasoline wholesaler and the owner of the popular Angora Restaurant in Medford. ''People are watching themselves.''
 In the weeks after the raids in July, Mr. Artukmac said his business declined. Turks were skittish about gathering in numbers and his American customers felt a bit uncomfortable patronizing the restaurant in the wake of the raids, he said. ''I hope people are smart enough to understand that these were isolated incidents, just a few people doing the wrong thing,'' he said. ''There is no crime ring, nothing organized.''
 The authorities disagree. According to the criminal complaint filed against the owners of the 140 raided stations by the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, the group sold nearly $28 million worth of gasoline since 1999 and had evaded taxes on half of it.
 The four owners -- Turhan Ak of Miller Place, Mustafa Catalbas of Mount Sinai, Ahmet Cayan of Port Jefferson and Sukru Akkaya, whose residence was not listed -- were partners in about 40 separate companies that together owned the 140 gas stations that were raided in July, according to records in the federal court in Central Islip. The complaint says that to underreport their income and avoid paying taxes, the defendants shuttled runners carrying white canvas bags stuffed with gas station revenue into Washington Mutual and HSBC banks, keeping each cash deposit under $10,000, the threshold at which banks are required by law to report deposits to the Internal Revenue Service.
 Federal agents kept the quartet under surveillance for months as they built their case against them. They pleaded not guilty, were denied bail and face up to 10 years in prison if convicted. Efforts to contact the defendants were unsuccessful; calls to the attorney for Mr. Cayan were not returned.
 While the crackdown has focused for the time being on alleged ringleaders, the net ensnared more than just big fish. The raids resulted in the arrest of 50 undocumented workers who were employed in some capacity by the four partners. Authorities said that many of the illegal immigrants had been smuggled into the country by their employers, were paid low wages and worked in poor conditions. Most have been released but face deportation.
 One of those swept up in the raids was Mr. Akpinar. He said he was born and raised in the central Turkish town of Zile and heard stories of bountiful jobs in a pleasant locale in America called Long Island. He said he had friends who had come here and reported back that they found steady work. ''Of course you hear stories that exaggerate,'' said the stocky, stubbled Mr. Akpinar. ''But you sometimes believe the best of what you hear because you want it to be true. I wanted to make money and be able to save up something for myself and my family. So I believed it could happen.''
 So he contacted a smuggler who could shepherd him to New York. He said that for agreeing to pay installments totaling $7,500, more than he made annually as a part-time stone quarry worker in Anatolia, he was given a plane ticket to New York, a fake green card and a promise of housing in Brentwood and a job at a Long Island gas station. Leaving behind a wife and two children, he arrived in late 2002 with nothing more than his clothes, some family photos and some Turkish good luck charms.
 He said Long Island did not appear as idyllic as the name suggested. There were no island-like features in sight from Brentwood, his new home, and the only demonstrably long part of his new existence was the length of his work day. His pay was set at $3.50 an hour, with free cigarettes and soda his main perquisites.
 But the rooming house was not available his first night on the job. So he settled down to sleep in the gas station. The promise of real housing was made and broken repeatedly over the next few months by a manager at his station, a Coastal outfit in Brentwood. Finally, Mr. Akpinar said, he accepted his living conditions.
 ''What could I do?'' he said. ''I had no money, no real family here. I was in debt. I just told myself to be tough, that hard work pays off in the end.''
 But the end actually came in the form of plastic handcuffs last July. Mr. Akpinar is back working at a different gas station on the Island -- he wouldn't say where -- while awaiting deportation to Turkey. He said he will leave America having saved no money and having no real prospect of a return until he retires his debt to his smuggler -- about $1,500, he said.
 ''There are bad apples in every bunch,'' said Haluk Dincsalman, who owns four gas stations in Shirley and has been a Long Island resident for 20 years. He calls himself an American and accepts the fact that his son's command of Turkish and tolerance for the old country's culture and mores are eroding.
 Mr. Dincsalman was around during the difficult early days of Turkish immigration to Long Island. He was one of the early few immigrants who, in the purest American tradition, saved up enough money from 17-hour workdays at gas stations to finally own outlets of their own. From there, friends and family were introduced into the fold and a migratory trend was established that has lasted for 20 years.
 ''How do Greeks enter the diner business or how does any other group get into any business?'' Mr. Dincsalman asked. ''You have a few people in the beginning who become successful and then it spreads. This is the business that we know.''
 Mr. Dincsalman lamented that the raids came at a time when the Turkish community on Long Island was just beginning to fan out into other industries. ''It's not like the old days,'' he said. ''There are Turks in different types of business now, like construction and landscaping, some painters. There are more choices.''
 Mr. Artukmac, the restaurateur, said he was optimistic about the future of Long Island's Turkish enclave despite the recent setbacks. But a relatively new ethnic community, especially one with a Muslim heritage, can be vulnerable in America, he said. Although Turkish immigration to America in general and Long Island in particular has slowed drastically after the tightening of borders following 9/11, Turks continue to settle here. They gather in the small mom-and-pop stores to sip crimson Turkish tea in traditional glasses and listen to popular songs that are the rage at home.
 A group of landscapers outside Angora discussed the future of Turks in the area. ''It is like any other group that has come here, the Italians, the Irish,'' said Savas Oktay, 34, who arrived on Long Island from Ankara last year to work at a local tree trimming business owned by a friend. He said the guarantees of a job and an apartment had been honored, but said that life for those without a support system in place can be very difficult. The raids, he said, only make things worse for the most vulnerable of Long Island's Turks.
 ''You have the people who want the money right away and cause trouble,'' he said. ''That makes it harder for people who just want to work hard and have a happy life.''
 Mr. Akpinar found that out the hard way. ''This is the life of the immigrant,'' he said, stubbing out one of the last of the free Marlboros he had stockpiled from misadventure in America.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
AT the request of federal prosecutors, a judge dismissed criminal charges in October against four men involved in operating gas stations on Long Island, charges that were substantially overstated in an article in the Long Island section last Sunday. The article, about the reaction among local Turks to raids by federal agents on Turkish-owned gas stations, failed to report that the charges against the men had been dismissed.
 The article also reported incorrectly that the four men -- Turhan Ak, Sukru Akkaya, Mustafa Catalbas and Ahmet Cayan -- had been charged with evading taxes and bootlegging gasoline. It also implied incorrectly that they were charged with smuggling illegal aliens into the United States.
 The Times article contained a number of errors and was marred by journalistic lapses. The most serious lapse was the failure of the newspaper to contact the four men or their lawyers.
 In fact, the four men were charged in July with only one, less serious, crime: trying to circumvent federal regulations that require banks to report cash transactions over $10,000 to the Internal Revenue Service. Prosecutors alleged that the men had divided big deposits into smaller chunks to avoid triggering that reporting requirement.
 Lawyers for the men categorically denied the charges. Joel R. Weiss, who represented Mr. Akkaya in the criminal case, said in an interview on Thursday that the men made frequent bank deposits to avoid keeping cash at the gas stations, and deposited money into different bank accounts because the stations were set up as separate corporate entities and were often owned by different combinations of shareholders.
 In October, a judge granted the request of the prosecutors, from the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, to dismiss the charges. On Thursday, a spokesman for the office, Robert Nardoza, declined to comment on the case.
 In July, Federal authorities seized bank accounts belonging to Messrs. Ak, Akkaya and Catalbas, and a Mercedes belonging to Mr. Akkaya, and continue to assert in a civil proceeding that these assets are forfeit because the men violated the cash reporting regulations.
 Steven L. Kessler, the Manhattan lawyer representing the group in the civil forfeiture case, said the government's case is weak. ''There is nothing here,'' he said.
 At the time of the raids in July, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced in a press release, still available on its Web site, that it had moved against ''an alleged Turkish organized crime ring suspected of violating money-laundering and immigration laws to raise and move millions of dollars overseas.''
 English- and Turkish-language news reports said that law enforcement officers had picked up at least 50 people of Turkish origin who were suspected of being illegal aliens; the immigration authorities would not confirm those accounts last week.
 The Times article misused quotations from law enforcement officials who were commenting on the broad set of criminal proceedings that they brought against a varied group of Turkish defendants last July. The article mistakenly suggested that these officials were commenting specifically on the cases of Mssrs. Ak, Akkaya, Catalbas and Cayan.
 It misidentified one of the men so quoted, Joseph Foy; he is a spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service, not Immigration and Customs Enforcement. 
 The article reported incorrectly that the four men own 140 gas stations on Long Island; according to lawyers for the four men, Mr. Akkaya and Mr. Catalbas owned 16, and Mr. Ak was a partner in at least one, said his lawyer, Douglas T. Burns. Mr. Cayan did not own any gas stations, according to his lawyer, James O. Druker, who described him as a low-level employee.
 Prosecutors did not contend that the men evaded taxes on about $14 million of gasoline revenue, as the article reported. In fact, the chief document filed with the court in their criminal case, an affidavit from an I.R.S. special agent, says only that he believed that the men may have tried to avoid government scrutiny of their cash transactions because he suspected that they were underreporting their income on their tax filings. Their lawyers say this speculation is unfounded, as is an allegation that the men were in any way involved in bringing in gasoline from New Jersey to avoid New York taxes. 
 The article also erroneously implied that their stations were pumping gasoline that includes an additive, MTBE, which has been linked to groundwater pollution and is banned in New York. Lawyers for the four men stressed that the gas stations they operated were affiliated with major-brand oil companies that would not have permitted such practices.
 The article said they were denied bail, which was incorrect. Mr. Akkaya and Mr. Catalbas were released directly from the courtroom under bail arrangements; Mr. Ak and Mr. Cayan made bail within days, their lawyers said.
 The accompanying photograph did not depict a gas station owned by any of the four men, their lawyers said. It was raided in July, but court documents link it to a different group of defendants. The caption stated incorrectly that it was involved with gasoline smuggling.
 Their legal problems have been very difficult for the four men, financially and emotionally, said Andrew L. Crabtree, another lawyer who represents them. Mr. Akkaya and Mr. Catalbas are American citizens, he noted.
 ''They ask, in America, how can they do this?'' Mr. Crabtree said. ''It's very difficult to explain to them.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prosecutors say this Turkish-owned gas station in North Amityville was a hub for a money laundering operation involving smuggled gasoline. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); TAX FRAUD (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (84%); GASOLINE (77%); HISTORY (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); RETAILERS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%) Garages and Service Stations; Immigration and Refugees; Turkish-Americans; Illegal Aliens; Labor; Garages and Service Stations

PERSON: Selim Algar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



619 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Shedding the Past Via the Zoning Code

BYLINE: By MORGAN LYLE

DATELINE: Port Washington North 

 BODY:
WHEN word got out that the Home Depot wanted to build a store across Shore Road from the Manhasset Bay waterfront, there was half-serious talk of picketing the home of Kenneth G. Langone, the billionaire co-founder of the home improvement retail chain, who lives less than two miles away.
 No picketing took place, nor did village officials appeal privately to Mr. Langone to intervene. ''It hasn't been necessary,'' said Michael Schenkler, a village trustee. ''We've somehow gotten them to back off.'' 
 What the village did instead was to change the zoning of the property Home Depot was interested in, and all others like it in the village of about 2,700, to exclude wholesale, retail and distribution businesses.
 An even more sweeping overhaul of Port Washington North's zoning law is in the works, changing the classifications of larger commercial parcels from ''industrial'' to ''economic development.'' That means office buildings but no smokestacks and no ''big box'' stores, said Robert Weitzner, the village's deputy mayor.
 It is not unheard of for Long Island communities to respond to specific controversies by rewriting their zoning rules, said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
 ''It doesn't go on all the time, but it certainly isn't a rarity,'' he said. ''It's not unusual when an elected board is faced with community opposition to take a hard look at zoning to placate their constituents.''
 But Mr. Weitzner said the new zoning was not simply a response to Home Depot's interest. It is part of the village's evolution from a blue-collar town where most of the property was used for industry to an upscale suburb, where most of the land is residential.
 Village leaders have been concerned about the pace of development for several years. During a one-year moratorium on subdivisions and large residential expansions that began in January 2004, Mr. Weitzner and Steve Cohen, a trustee, compiled a two-inch thick report with ideas for controlling growth in the village. 
 ''There's a trend of residential over commercial, and certainly over industry, which had its place maybe 50 years ago but doesn't have its place here now,'' Mr. Weitzner said. ''Years back, the whole idea of industrial zoning on the waterfront was oil tanks and sand mines. Many skyscrapers in New York City were built with Port Washington sand. Back then, the water was an important source of transportation. Now, it's a source of beauty. What the report says essentially is that we should take back our village.''
 The Moratorium Commission's report calls for such things as more distinct buffers between business and residential properties; forbidding ''McMansions'' on the village's modest building lots; and more stringent enforcement of zoning laws.
 These efforts come as the Town of North Hempstead takes stock of the quality of life in the five incorporated villages on the Port Washington peninsula. The town has hired Sustainable Long Island, a nonprofit group and leading local advocate of the ''smart growth'' philosophy for redeveloping downtown areas, and the consulting firm HDR to carry out a community ''visioning'' process by getting residents to declare their goals for the village at public meetings, then finding ways to turn those goals into concrete plans. The effort will cost $200,000, $50,000 of which will come from a state grant, said Jon Kaiman, the North Hempstead supervisor.
 Sarah Lansdale, the executive director of Sustainable Long Island, said the peninsula was made more complex by the number of villages and different government jurisdictions. ''One of the goals of the process,'' she said, ''is to define peninsulawide community goals, so that sustainable development can occur on the peninsula.''
 That sustainable development could even include large chain retailers, she said, provided they find a way to fit their buildings into communities, rather than erecting those infamous ''big boxes.''
 In Port Washington North, Home Depot had its eye on an 11-acre parcel that includes the now-closed Thomson Industries ball-bearing factory, which at its height employed 600 people in three shifts, Mr. Schenkler said.
 The site's two-acre front lawn has always seemed like ''our village green,'' he said. It sits across the four-lane road from a strip of shoreline that the village hopes, with state funding, to develop into Bay Walk Park.
 Now the village is considering trading a wooded eight-acre parcel that has room for 30 to 40 new houses to Danaher Motion, the company that now owns the Thomson Industries site, for the 11 acres on Shore Road, which would become a new Village Hall, a village club and a public park.
 ''One of the many motivations is if we control the decisions, it won't be too terrible,'' Mr. Schenkler said of the prospects for the site. ''If we lose this to Home Depot or Wal-Mart or a factory, there goes one of the last open spaces near the water on this part of the North Shore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (93%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TRENDS (75%); WHOLESALERS (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Zoning; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Home Depot Inc

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%)

PERSON: STEVEN COHEN (57%); STEVEN A COHEN (57%); STEVE COHEN (50%) Morgan Lyle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Port Washington North (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



620 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Renovations Helping Downtown Detroit

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
THIS city has certainly taken its lumps over the last half century. It has lost more than half its population and remains at or near the bottom of many indices of urban quality of life.
 Still, there have been signs of a downtown revival over the last few years, with one of the most remarkable changes being the creation of residential lofts in the blighted central business district. About 440 new residential rental units, many of them in move-in condition, have either been developed over the last two years or are currently under construction in the roughly one-square-mile area. In addition, another 220 units are planned. 
 Almost all of the projects involve the renovation of long-vacant historic commercial and industrial buildings, many dating from the early 20th century and featuring the kind of heavily ornamented terra-cotta facades and floors with relatively small square footage that are especially attractive to residential developers . 
 ''There's a lot going on right now in terms of businesses relocating downtown and people wanting to live closer to where they work,'' said Robert Schostak, president of Schostak Brothers & Company of suburban Southfield, Mich. His company is co-developer of Merchants Row, a 155-unit project carved out of five buildings along Woodward Avenue, the city's main north-south thoroughfare. ''We're certainly pioneering, there's no doubt about that,'' he said, but at a time when downtown, although not the entire city, after a long decline, seems to be on the upswing. ''For the first time in many years, it's not only feasible but highly desirable to do residential downtown,'' he added.
 Other developers agreed. ''There's an awful lot of momentum in the right direction,'' said W. Robert Bates, senior vice president of Mansur Real Estate Services, an Indianapolis-based company that specializes in downtown historic readaptation projects. Mansur is the developer of the Kales Building Lofts, an 18-story former office building that at one time housed the headquarters of the old S.S. Kresge dime store chain. The 117-unit project is on Adams Street overlooking Grand Circus Park, one of the city's oldest parks, on the north side of the district. ''The city is committed to getting these projects done,'' Mr. Bates said. ''I'm very optimistic about Detroit.'' 
 The residences being created range in size from about 600 square feet, or a small studio, up to about 2,100 square feet, the equivalent of a three-bedroom apartment. Rents generally are about $600 to about $2,000 per month. The spaces in many cases offer features like 17-foot ceilings, concrete floors, spiral staircases and large windows.
 Jerry and Tomeka McGee, who recently moved from Atlanta, took a one-bedroom unit at the Kales Building with expansive views of Grand Circus Park. Mr. McGee is a graphic designer and Mrs. McGee is studying textile design.
 ''We're urban people,'' Mr. McGee said. ''We love the character of old buildings and old architecture. And the rental properties downtown are not expensive.'' 
 Toby White, a lawyer who grew up in the Detroit suburbs and recently moved into a one-bedroom unit at the Lofts at Woodward Center, agrees. ''I've always loved downtown and was excited by it,'' he said. ''There's more going on. I like the fact that I can see the city reviving before my eyes,'' he said, referring to the downtown core.
 Last month, city officials opened Campus Martius Park, a new $20 million park in the heart of the central business district that includes an elaborate fountain, an ice skating rink and an Au Bon Pain restaurant. 
 The park is opposite the new Compuware Building, a 1.1-million-square-foot structure occupied by its namesake corporation that was completed in 2003. Meanwhile, several blocks away, General Motors is finishing a $500 million top-to-bottom renovation of its riverfront Renaissance Center headquarters that includes a new winter garden and an imposing station for the city's People Mover mass transit system.
 The improvements are driving the residential loft market by ''giving people confidence that downtown is going to be revitalized,'' said Peter Zeiler, the business development coordinator for the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, a nonprofit group that acts as a liaison between the city and private developers.
 Still, the revival is at an early stage. Almost all of the conversion projects in the central business district are rentals, as opposed to condominiums, because they are being financed in part with national and state historic tax credits, whose rules require that projects must remain rentals for at least five years. 
 ''When you do the math,'' said David Farbman, president of the Farbman Group, in Southfield, the developer of the Lofts at Woodward Center, a 64-unit project opposite the Merchants Row project that was created out of three older office properties, ''it still makes financial sense to use the credits'' rather than build condos. Mr. Farbman estimated that the credits provided about 12 percent of the project's $10 million financing. 
 The city has also stepped in by creating -- in partnership with several civic organizations -- a $20 million housing fund for the area that provides low-interest loans to developers. 
 ''One of the fundamental building blocks of revitalization is having a residential base to support all the other commercial and retail enterprises that make a city vibrant and active on a 24-hour basis,'' said David Blaszkiewicz, president of the fund. ''Our goal is to create 1,000 new units of housing over the next three to four years.'' 
 The tenants moving into these lofts run the gamut from young professionals to empty-nesters. ''There's not really a particular demographic,'' said Lisa Debs, a saleswoman for Detroit Urban Living L.L.C., a development company that has several projects under way just north of the district. ''What they all have in common is that they want an authentic urban environment.'' 
 Some of the tenants of the new downtown apartments are people who lived in the suburbs because they felt there was no alternative.
 ''It makes sense for people like me to be down here,'' said Mason Franklin, an advertising executive who recently moved from the suburbs to a unit at Merchants Row. ''I work down here. I don't have kids. I'm 38 years old and I'm not ready to live on autopilot. And when you're downtown, you're not on autopilot.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CONVERTING TO LOFTS -- Older buildings in downtown Detroit, including some on Woodward Avenue, right, are being converted into modern loft apartments, left, many of them rentals. Jerry and Tomeka McGee, above, recently moved from Atlanta. ''We love the character of old buildings and old architecture,'' he said. (Photographs by William Zbaren for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Housing; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: SCHOSTAK BROTHERS & CO INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (68%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (68%)

PERSON: Robert Sharoff

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



621 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1832 words

HEADLINE: Bayonne Dreams of a Gleaming Shoreline

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: BAYONNE 

 BODY:
TRUE to its gritty roots, this blue-collar city of 62,000 is angling to become the next shimmering ingot in New Jersey's gold coast with ambitious plans to develop the eastern shore of a man-made peninsula -- a third of a mile wide by two miles long that juts into upper New York Bay -- as a billion-dollar mixed-use development.
 What has emerged is a long-range proposal for almost 7,000 townhouses, apartments and condominiums, along with retail shops and offices, on the southern side of the peninsula -- overlooking refurbished wetlands, a links golf course, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, and the mouth of New York Harbor with the southern tip of Manhattan in the hazy distance. 
 But the most interesting aspect of the Janus-like plan is what would be situated on the north side of the peninsula. Hard against a newly dredged inlet would be a container port for the region's growing export and import economy as well as a cruise line terminal.
 ''It mirrors the times,'' said Mayor Joseph V. Doria. ''It takes into consideration the growth of the global economy and New Jersey's role in the importing and exporting part of that and then marries it to recreational and residential uses that take advantage of harbor vistas.'' 
 Some real estate observers say that Mr. Doria may be on to something.
 Donald Eisen, a real estate executive on the board of the National Association of Office and Industrial Parks, said that more and more he is ''observing development and redevelopment in areas that would have made you scratch your head in confusion years ago.''
 To Mr. Eisen, that a developer would gamble on businesses and homeowners flocking to an area that 15 years ago was a dusty staging ground for shipments of military equipment is a consequence of the shortage of ''clean, open and developable land'' and the glut of tired sites in need of redevelopment.
 ''You're going to have things abut each other that wouldn't ordinarily abut,'' Mr. Eisen predicted. ''I don't have a problem with what they are doing because water is magic right now from a real estate point of view. It's all in the execution.''
 To that end, the Bayonne Local Development Authority is overseeing the planning and redevelopment of the peninsula, a former military base long known as the Military Ocean Terminal at Bayonne, which could increase the city's population by 25 percent.
 For now, the agency is seeking permission from the state Department of Environmental Protection to create a broad master plan. If approved, such a plan would not only shape the development but allow the proposal to proceed without additional permits.
 To be sure, approval of such a sweeping and -- to some extent counterintuitive -- project could take as long as 10 years to become a reality. In the meantime, the authority will continue to rent the former military depot's huge warehouses as soundstages for film and television productions. Since 2000, for instance, parts of the HBO production ''Oz'' are filmed there, as were several scenes from the movie ''A Beautiful Mind.'' 
 ''This peninsula, at under 500 acres, is the size of a small town,'' said an environmental official who asked not to be identified. ''To try to mix the residential and maritime uses is difficult. You might get conflicts because some containerized shipping is very noisy, and a 24-hour-a-day operation. Other kinds of port operations might be compatible, all with the right buffer.''
 The official recalled what happened a few miles north, at Port Liberte in Jersey City, where upscale housing looks out onto cranes and the mottled fields of a scrap iron yard. ''People are still complaining,'' he said.
 Brian Maher, chairman and chief executive of Maher Terminals, is one of 10 terminal operators who -- along with China Ocean Shipping, owned by the Chinese government -- has expressed interest in developing part of the peninsula. Mr. Maher said that he had not seen the details of how the city hoped to blend a maritime function with commercial and residential development, but he cautioned that limiting a terminal operation to anything other than 24 hours a day, seven days a week would be a problem.
 ''Obviously, a marine container terminal is a marine container terminal with cranes and ships at berth,'' Mr. Maher said. ''It doesn't have to be unsightly but it does have characteristics that are unique. I assume that this is an issue that the city is grappling with at the moment. I just know that we would need close to 200 acres.''
 Currently, there 420 acres on the peninsula on which to build. The town projects that 296 of those acres will be devoted to residential, commercial and retail use, leaving 124 acres for the maritime activity.
 For now, the redevelopment authority is negotiating an agreement with Fidelco Realty, headed by Mark Berson, who recently purchased an office building in Newark and who also has a major interest in the minor league Newark Bears baseball team as well as Kirker Enterprises Inc., the largest domestic manufacturer of nail polish. Mr. Berson's company was one of six developers who responded to an invitation in 2003 to present ideas for development of at least one section of the project.
 Mr. Berson, whose company is in the final stages of negotiating a contract with Bayonne, was sanguine about the notion of wedding residential development with maritime use. But he also suggested the possibility of a less intrusive maritime element ''that create less density, height and clanging.'' 
 ''I really do believe that when it comes to the maritime use, it is extremely early in the process, and what will appropriately fit has yet to be determined,'' he said.
 Yet for all the talk about the waterfront vistas at what is being called ''The Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor,'' there are other important factors that may ultimately determine whether it becomes a reality.
 For instance, Nancy Kist, director of the Bayonne Local Development Authority, said that her organization had spent months studying traffic and transportation issues.
 To Ms. Kist, the peninsula is well-situated in several senses. For one thing, the main road, Peninsula Boulevard, empties at the 34th Street Station of the Hudson Bergen Light Rail Line, providing commuters with easy access to PATH stations, many of New Jersey Transit's commuter rail lines and the rest of the state's coastline to the north.
 Running on the western edge of the peninsula and linking it with the rest of Bayonne is State Road 440, a divided highway that intersects with the turnpike extension to the north and the Bayonne Bridge to the south. 
 Under the current plan, Ms. Kist said, a wall and buffer zone down the spine of the peninsula would separate residential and commercial development from the port and prevent dangerous commingling of truck traffic from the port with commuter traffic.
 In an effort to minimize truck traffic, Ms. Kist said that planners were looking into the possibility of short rail line that would come right to the maritime port's boundary, load containers on freight cars and ferry them to other areas for shipment.
 Even with that, she added, Route 440 would have to be widened, the turnpike toll plaza expanded and a rail link built. In all, Ms. Kist said, those improvements and other road realignments could cost up to $360 million in state funds.
 For this and other reasons, Mr. Doria said the plan was of the long-range variety and had to be ''modulated'' to accommodate the traffic so that the pace of development did not overwhelm the rest of the city.
 In the 1930's, the leaders of Bayonne began a landfill operation with the notion of creating a peninsula for factories -- manufacturing already dominated the area -- to provide more jobs for German, Irish and Italian immigrants flocking there. An artist's rendering at the time shows a grid packed with five-and six-story factory buildings, an image that Ms. Kist said was ''positively Dickensian'' in its industrial density but in many ways consistent with the way Bayonne viewed itself.
 But before this could take off, the federal government -- anticipating war, approached the city to buy the project for about $2 million. It became a military base, complete with barracks, a dry dock for huge ships and a staging area for ferrying war material to Europe. In 1995 the federal government announced plans to close the base, so Bayonne stepped in and turned to an updated version of its 1930's development plan.
 Under the current proposal, the peninsula would have six districts, including the maritime operation on the northern edge. At the western end would be Harbor Station -- where the light rail station is currently situated -- with low-to mid-rise housing, retail stores, offices and entertainment areas, bordered on the south by restored wetlands.
 To the east would be an area designated Bayonne Bay -- totally residential with the exception of a hotel -- with views of the golf course across the inlet. A major road and parking decks would skirt the district's northern edge to help as a buffer to the maritime district. In addition, the current Hudson River Waterfront Walkway, an 18-mile-long shore path running from the George Washington Bridge, would be extended.
 The next section would be called The Landing, situated midway along the peninsula. In addition to a ferry landing, there would be parks, shops and restaurants, with low-and mid-rise housing to the north -- along with the buffer.
 Planners also envision something called the Loft District for mid-to high-rise residential buildings similar to the urban clustering of factories once proposed. 
 But in this instance, Ms. Kist explained, the construction would allow for ''view corridors'' opening the area to panoramas of the inlet and bay, the golf course and in the distance, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
 At the tip of the spit of land would be Bayonne Point, with high-rise offices and residences offering views of Lower Manhattan, the Statue of Liberty. It is also at this point that the landscape would gradually shift to maritime uses along the northern edge, from the old dry docking operation to the recently opened terminal of the Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines.
 Mr. Doria said that the entire vision for the area fits in with ''smart growth'' concepts of reusing old urban industrial sites rather than following the path of suburban sprawl, and that through careful planning the residential and the maritime could coexist. He cited cities like Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Halifax, where the residential and ocean-going commerce come together in a cosmopolitan mix.
 The city, said Mr. Doria, is a long way from the days when the area's first oil refineries appeared at Constable Hook, eventually becoming the site of four large refineries. Those facilities are gone now, as are many of the factories that for years dictated the town's fortunes and misfortunes.
 ''Then it was the industrial revolution at work in the town,'' he said. ''Now it will be the global economy at work in the town.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Unusual plans for the Military Ocean Terminal at Bayonne. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 There are radical plans to redevelop the southern side of Bayonne's ocean terminal by introducing an upscale community with 7,000 housing units, retail shops and offices. (pg. 8)Map of New Jersey highlighting Military Ocean Terminal at Bayonne. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); APPROVALS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (74%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (74%); CONTAINERIZATION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); WETLANDS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); CRUISES (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); RETAILERS (55%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises; Containerization; Ports

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Bayonne (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



622 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: A New Symphony Season, Strings Attached

BYLINE: By BRIAN WISE

 BODY:
THE New Jersey Symphony Orchestra may have its controversial collection of rare string instruments, but concertgoers will have less opportunity to hear them, or any other instruments, in the coming year.
 The orchestra's 2005-6 season -- its first under its new music director, Neeme Jarvi --will offer just 57 classical concerts, down from 67 this season. 
 The symphony's president, Simon Woods, said the cuts are an attempt to shore up the orchestra's finances, which have suffered because of declining ticket sales, higher touring expenses and the costs associated with the mortifying $18 million purchase last year of those 30 rare and antique string instruments made by Italian masters. An internal report released last December determined that symphony officials deceived the board and public over the instruments' value. 
 Mr. Woods emphasized that the latest cuts are temporary and uniformly applied to the seven statewide sites where the orchestra plays. The symphony's annual budget is $14 million.
 ''Like many orchestras, we're working with an increasingly fragile economic model,'' he said. ''We've taken a very close look this past year of audience buying patterns and also with our cost structure, and we've decided that we have to make some probably temporary adjustments in our schedule.''
 Mr. Woods added, ''Some venues will have a slight reduction, but no venue is going to lose the symphony.'' 
 The orchestra is reducing the number of concerts at Bergen PAC in Englewood and Count Basie Theater in Red Bank from six concerts to four. The orchestra will also reduce the number of concerts at Trenton's War Memorial from eight to six; and the four-concert Thursday night series at NJPAC, which began five years ago, will be discontinued.
 Along with a reduced schedule, next season will emphasize more familiar repertory than in past years. As recently as the 2003-4 season, about 60 percent of the orchestra's schedule was devoted to pieces new to the orchestra; next year, only 14 of the 49 scheduled pieces will be symphony premieres. 
 Eighteenth-century repertory will be in greater supply. Mr. Jarvi will open the season in September by starting a multiyear cycle of Haydn's ''London'' Symphonies. For the annual three-week winter festival, the orchestra will celebrate Mozart on his 250th birthday. 
 Mr. Jarvi's influence will be evident in programs featuring Russian composers like Shostakovich, Rachmaninoff and Mussorgsky, and two Estonian countrymen, Eduard Tubin and Arvo Part.
 The orchestra offered some good news with a $3 million grant from the Prudential Foundation -- $1 million of which will serve as a challenge grant to new donors in future fund-raising efforts. 
 ''One of the things we find in looking at the symphony is they have not been able to diversify their donor stream as broadly as we think they have to,'' said Arthur F. Ryan, Prudential Financial's chairman and chief executive. ''We intend to work with them on that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The N.J. Symphony Orchestra is cutting its classical concerts to 57 from 67. (Photo by Eduardo Patino/New Jersey Symphony Orchestra) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (88%); MATCHING GIFTS (83%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); THEATER (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); TICKET SALES (70%) Music

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Symphony Orchestra

PERSON: Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ESTONIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



623 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Will There Be a Next Big Thing?

BYLINE: By JAMES W. HUGHES and JOSEPH J. SENECA. 
James W. Hughes is dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. Joseph J. Seneca is University Professor at the Bloustein School.

 BODY:
FOR more than a century, the New Jersey economy has continually reinvented itself -- by itself. At the end of the 19th century, we woke up and found out that an agricultural economy had become a powerful manufacturing economy. At the end of the 20th century, we woke up again and found out that we had become a powerful information-age economy. These monumental transformations took place in a virtual public policy vacuum. In fact, stimulating or shaping economic growth has always been a state public policy backwater. Sure -- we talked the policy talk -- but rarely did we seriously walk the policy walk.
 Perhaps entrepreneurial spirits and geography ruled. New Jersey may have been so well positioned with its business structures and location in relation to key national markets that it was virtually impossible not to succeed. And during the past six years we seemingly have defied economic gravity -- continually outperforming the nation in employment growth. The Census Bureau's 2003 American Community Survey found the state still at the top of the nation's income ladder, again registering the highest median household and family incomes among the 50 states. 
 So, despite our high costs of doing business, a transportation system at capacity and increasingly congested, and a troubled state fiscal situation, our economy seems to be doing just fine relative to the rest of the nation. But when you are at a peak, it's easy to forget that, unless you strive to maintain that position, the only direction is down. Its also easy to miss warning signals that perhaps something is amiss, and that we should no longer take our economic well-being for granted. Maybe our nonchalant economic luck has run its course. Perhaps geography and a now much-changed business profile no longer will rule in an Internet-linked global economy.
 We are not shocked now to see the decaying remnants of our once mighty manufacturing plants or their complete disappearance (like the recent demolition of the Ford plant in Edison, the last vestige of the automobile industry in New Jersey). But it is unsettling indeed to see powerful symbols of our post-industrial, high-technology future -- like AT&T's global headquarters in Basking Ridge -- sitting vacant on the economic landscape. What was once the 800-pound global telecommunications gorilla became a sitting duck with deregulation, rapid changes in technology and the emergence of more nimble competitors. Headquarters jobs, once assumed to be our proud birthright, are now firmly ensconced in other states. Overall, telecommunications employment in the state declined by more than 25 percent between 1990 and 2003. Employment in the wired telecommunications carrier subsector declined by 46 percent. 
 The once fabled telecommunications corridor -- Route 78 -- now has an office vacancy rate of 40 percent. Other symbols of our potent technological edge -- Bell Labs and Sarnoff Labs -- are mere shadows of their once global dominance. And it is not simply telecommunications. Many other statewide economic sectors and institutions are facing similar challenges.

UTILITIES -- Over the past decade, most of the state's large public utilities have been acquired by out-of-state corporations, with the attendant diminution of centralized management employment in New Jersey. Exelon, headquartered in Chicago, is proceeding with the acquisition of P.S.E.&G., the state's largest utility. Earlier, RWE (Germany) acquired E-Town Water, once one of the nation's largest investor-owned utilities. And the list goes on.
 Overall, utilities employment declined by 21 percent between 1990 and 2003, with the electricity subsector declining by 35 percent. We do not advocate protectionism, because these mergers may be beneficial from the perspective of national economic efficiency. But it is worth observing that other, not New Jersey, utilities are doing the acquiring. Rather, New Jersey utilities are the acquired, with the state losing headquarters and other jobs, not gaining them. Executive authority now rests outside the state's boundaries. Instead of being the primary market focus, we have been reduced to submarket status.

BANKING AND FINANCE -- Up until 1969, New Jersey's particularly archaic laws restricted banks from branching outside of the county (no less!) of their main offices. This fostered the proliferation of many small banks, but inhibited the emergence of large statewide institutions. Thus, we never equaled the growth of large banks in other states. Even so, our major banks were once mainstays of our cities and communities. This is no longer the case.
 When New Jersey allowed reciprocal interstate banking starting in 1988, powerful out-of-state institutions gobbled up our major state players. Again, New Jersey businesses were the acquired, not only because of the state's high incomes, powerful consumer markets, and high population densities, but because we were again ripe for the picking. The major headquarters jobs of the largest banking institutions in New Jersey are now in Charlotte, N.C., where Wachovia and Bank of America reside. We are not only the Garden State, we are also the Branch Bank State.
 Between 1990 and 2003, more than 24 percent of the jobs in traditional banking were lost. This has been obscured in the state's overall financial sector by the tripling of securities and brokerage employment in New Jersey, as Wall Street shifted across the Hudson River. However, with the New York Stock Exchange's hegemony threatened by electronic trading, with other global financial centers becoming more powerful, and with back-office functions carried out as easily in low-cost Asia as in Jersey City, these gains may turn out to be fleeting.

PHARMACEUTICALS -- The drug industry is one of the crown jewels of the state's economy, hence our reputation as the nation's medicine chest. But pharmaceuticals have not experienced net overall job gains in the state for more than a decade, with employment in pharmaceutical and medicine production declining by 5 percent between 1990 and 2003. And the establishment of major new pharmaceutical research facilities in San Diego, California and Cambridge, Mass. -- not in New Jersey -- has recently raised concern.
 Again, the latest mergers and acquisitions have tended to benefit headquarters functions located outside New Jersey. For example, Warner Lambert (2000) and Pharmacia (2003) merged with Pfizer, while Squibb was acquired by Bristol-Myers. Both Pfizer and Bristol Myers have their global headquarters in Manhattan. In addition, with its current legal difficulties, Merck could turn out to be a merger target, with similar headquarters ramifications.
 By citing the above examples, we are not playing a game of Chicken Little -- the economic sky is not falling. Indeed, New Jersey's economy is doing well, both absolutely and relative to the nation and our neighboring states. But there is a question of whether our current prosperity is obscuring the start of a long-term erosion of our unique and powerful economic position. Moreover, major turning points in the economy are usually only visible in the rear-view economic mirror. 
 New Jersey's two industrial transformations left us not only with an enviable economic position but also with an unparalleled standard of living. However, a third transformation may well be at hand -- one that may yield different consequences. A global economy with an abundance of low-cost, highly-educated, service-sector workers is likely to turn out to be a challenge of unprecedented complexity and implications.
 Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey has been criticized for proposing major investments in stem-cell research because some New Jerseyans give it less priority than other immediate pressing issues, like property tax relief. But, the future of our economy is too important for it not to be a central, and well-thought-out focus of public policy. If we don't invest now in the future, this time to nurture ''the next big thing,'' then the state's economy may well reinvent itself again -- by itself. However, the end result may not be what we want. 
 Will we wake up a third time, and find ourselves sliding backward?


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (74%); DEREGULATION (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (60%); CENSUS (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Telephones and Telecommunications; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health; Labor; Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel; Stem Cells; Research

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: Joseph J Seneca; James W (Dean) Hughes; Richard J (Gov) Codey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



624 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Housing: Still 'Going Gangbusters'

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
COMMON sense suggests that the situation on the home market -- demand far outstripping supply, home values going up, up, up -- cannot go on much longer. Of course, common sense suggested precisely the same thing a year ago, and was entirely wrong.
 ''The 2004 market was very, very strong,'' Jeffrey G. Otteau of the Otteau Appraisal Group said after analyzing year-end statistics on sales contracts from 18 counties around New Jersey. ''And it still has plenty of life in it.'' 
 There were 14 percent more home sales in 2004 than in 2003, which was itself a record-setting year, he said. Fierce demand on the part of home buyers continued despite rising home prices, a slight rise interest rates and a larger number of homes for sale -- 10 percent more in 2004 than in 2003 -- Mr. Otteau said.
 His prediction for 2005? More of the same: a rising number of house sales, and another 5 to 10 percent overall increase in the value of homes.
 Brokers agree with the rosy report and salubrious forecast.
 ''Our company had 12 percent more sales last year,'' said Pat Hoferkamp, president of Burgdorff ERA. ''Sales prices were up 10 percent. Every January, it seems, you say to yourself: 'My God! Can we have another record-breaking year?' If the economy continues as it has, and interest rates don't go up too much, I believe it will be.''
 Jacelyn Botti, president of Weichert Realtors, said: ''All the underpinnings that drive the industry are identical to a year ago. Inventory levels in every Multiple Listing Service in every county in the area we cover -- New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Delaware -- are about where they were a year ago, when they were historically low.'' 
 Mr. Otteau did sound a cautionary note about homes priced at $1 million and above, saying activity in that sector was slowing and prices were starting to stagnate, but Mrs. Botti said she disagreed. In her view, even that market remains robust.
 ''In 2003, we had 1,001 transactions involving homes priced at $1 million and above,'' Mrs. Botti said. ''In 2004, we had 1,637 transactions -- a 64 percent increase.''
 ''Of course,'' she continued, ''a $1 million house today is different than a $1 million house a few years ago. It might be a simple Cape or three-bedroom ranch in some communities. Still, the market between $1 million and $2.5 million is very strong. It's only when you get to $5 million plus that I would agree the market is less active.''
 Kathy McCormick, a regional vice president for Coldwell Banker in New Jersey, laughed at the idea that the high-end market is languishing. ''There is a projected 1 million population increase for the region in the next 10 years,'' she said. ''The high rollers have to live somewhere. Manhattan, Westchester, New Jersey -- there aren't any bargains in any of those markets, but New Jersey stacks up very favorably.''
 Ms. McCormick said that even in places like Short Hills, where the average home price has risen to $1.2 million, multiple bids are common.
 Various brokers in the field did agree with Mr. Otteau, whose East Brunswick-based company supplies information to real estate companies, as to what is the hottest sector of the market: homes priced at $400,000 and below.
 ''Homes for the entry-level buyer are selling fastest, and that is where we see the largest price increases,'' Mr. Otteau said. ''The other top-performing sector is age-restricted housing, for those beginning to make a lifestyle change at 55 or older. Active-adult homes are absolutely red hot, and price increases are very rapid.''
 He also pointed to several ''secondary markets'' that have caught fire recently. These are communities adjacent to the most-desired towns where the supply for homes for sale is scant relative to demand. Buyers boxed out of such towns as Short Hills and Montclair are snapping up houses in nearby towns like Maplewood, South Orange and West Orange, Mr. Otteau observed.
 ''Some great towns were sort of left behind in the boom of the 90's,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''and have recently been rediscovered because of their abundance of older colonial and Tudor homes of above-average consumption quality, excellent locations and comparatively affordable prices.''
 In addition, urban markets are increasingly in demand, according to many real estate professionals. In Hoboken and Jersey City, new condo developments are selling out before the ink dries on the plans, Mrs. Botti of Weichert said, adding that this had helped make Hudson County, where those towns are located, ''the hottest county in the state.''
 The Otteau Group's year-end report identified several counties where demand clearly outstripped supply in 2004. These include Cumberland County, where there was a 28 percent increase in the number of homes sold and a 2 percent drop in number of homes on the market last year compared with the year before; Essex County, which had 5 percent more home sales and 9 percent fewer homes listed; Hunterdon, with 14 percent more sales and 5 percent fewer listings; and Somerset County, with sales up by 5 percent and listings down by 8 percent.
 In December, Ocean County, an awakening area, had 67 percent more homes sold than during the corresponding month in 2003. Mr. Otteau saw two reasons for that: home prices are comparatively low, and the 55-and-over market is booming in the shoreline communities.
 Bergen County, meanwhile, had 4 percent fewer sales this December than last, and looking at all of 2004, sales did not increase compared with 2003. ''Homes are higher priced in Bergen County,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''and that is the explanation.''
 Over all, though, Mr. Otteau reported a certain balance. Statewide in 2004, the supply of homes for sale grew at nearly the same pace as demand. The number of listed homes was up 8 percent, while the number of sales rose 9 percent.
 Sales activity in 2004 exceeded sales activity in 2003 in every month except July, when interest rates stopped going any lower. ''Because of the end of rate reduction, and because of large price increases up to then, the market took a pause,'' as Mr. Otteau put it.
 ''Sometimes, buyers need a little time to regroup, reassess, get over the sticker shock,'' he said. ''There was a lot of press back then regarding the possibility the market could collapse, reports on how the market in California had turned, and could we be next?''
 ''Well,'' he said, ''we weren't. New Jersey is already very densely populated, with restrictions on further development, making property dear. With a projected high rate of population growth and a continuing increase in the rate of household formation, there is every reason to see the market continue going gangbusters in '05.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); INVENTORIES (70%) Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Mortgages

COMPANY: WEICHERT REALTORS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Otteau Appraisal Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; Jeffrey Otteau

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



625 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SPRING-SUMMER CRUISES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2005 words

HEADLINE: Portland to Halifax: Taking the Car Along for the Ride

BYLINE: By MARIALISA CALTA

 BODY:
THINK of a ''self-drive vacation'' on the Scotia Prince, from Portland, Me., to Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, as a cruise for the uninitiated. It offers a taste of cruise life (casino gambling, floor shows, all-you-can-eat buffet) with a convenient escape hatch: time onboard is about 11 hours each way, and then you are released to your car and can navigate on your own. 
 Not that my husband, Dirk, and I didn't enjoy the time onboard. We spent most of it, on a trip last August, indulging in three of our favorite activities -- reading, eating and sleeping -- while enjoying a prime view of the Gulf of Maine and being catered to by an attentive staff. The 35-year-old ship, having undergone a $2 million upgrade in 2002, is attractively appointed with teak decks, rails and doors. It offers a number of amenities including a day spa, outdoor hot tubs and exercise equipment, and a packed roster of activities (line-dancing lessons, bingo, family movies and scavenger hunts among them).
 We bought the four-day, three-night Taste of Nova Scotia package, among the shortest of 24 cruise-drive tours offered. All packages include round-trip ferry passage (with car), an economy cabin on the boat for the nighttime passage to Yarmouth, and hotel rooms for each night spent on land. Meals (except hotel breakfast on the morning of the return on some trips) are not included. 
 The cruise-drive tour appears to be the only one of its kind in the United States. Other companies, following the lead of Scotia Prince Cruises and many such cruises in Europe, have tried to follow suit, but have been unsuccessful, according to Douglas Ward, president of the Maritime Evaluations Group and author of the annual Berlitz guide, ''Ocean Cruising and Cruise Ships.'' 
 The boat leaves Portland at 8 p.m., and passengers are advised to arrive two hours early. We were more than three hours ahead of schedule but were allowed to leave our car in line and walk the lively, crowded streets near the city's harbor. Knowing that dinner onboard would be a late affair, we also fortified ourselves with takeout chowder from a nearby fish market. We were glad we did; the Scotia Prince was nearly an hour late coming in, and by the time we drove onboard and found our surprisingly spacious cabin (we had upgraded to a junior deluxe cabin: king-size bed, pull-out bunk, closet, bathroom with shower), it was well after 9 p.m. 
 Thinking we would have plenty of time to explore the ship and still get enough sleep before our scheduled 7 a.m. arrival, we were aghast to learn that the room steward would wake us at 5 the next morning. He needed the time, he explained apologetically, to clean the cabins for the boat's day trip back to Maine. Unwelcome news for those who, like us, are not morning people. 
 The ferry holds 1,000 passengers and 200 cars. The dining room seats about 300. Faced with long lines for dinner, Dirk and I retreated to the near-empty lounge for a drink, sitting by the floor-to-ceiling windows and watching as the lights of a diminutive pilot boat preceded the 12,000-ton, 479-foot ferry out of the Portland harbor.
 The ship offers a dining package -- $40 a person for a buffet dinner and breakfast on one leg of the journey, and lunch on the return jaunt -- but we declined it; wisely, as it turned out. We bypassed the sad-looking steam-table fare and ordered from the a la carte menu. We were delightfully surprised with an excellent meal, which we enjoyed as several buffet-eating couples sitting nearby asked us wistfully about our dinner. (I had steamed salmon, while Dirk had steak; the cost was about $40, at $1.24 Canadian to the U.S. dollar, including wine but no dessert; tax and tip are extra.) We climbed to the upper deck and read under fluorescent lights above the lounge chairs and then repaired to bed. The dreaded 5 a.m. knock came as promised.
 We were not the only groggy passengers to shuffle through the coffee line that morning. A beefy man whom we had seen carrying cases of beer to his cabin (despite the posted signs against bringing alcohol onboard) looked decidedly the worse for wear. A young girl, apparently seasick from the gentle swell, clapped one hand over her mouth and made a bee-line with her mother to a bathroom. Smokers zipped their windbreakers and walked out on deck into the morning fog to light up. 
 Once off the boat at Yarmouth, we headed toward Halifax, nearly four hours northeast on Route 103, an easy drive. We ate breakfast at a roadside diner and arrived in the city near 1 p.m. Our package included one night in a deluxe room at the Citadel Hotel, a tall, dark, boxy building in the center of town. The desk clerk informed us that check-in was not until 3 p.m. But after seeing how exhausted we were, she offered us a standard room that was ready for occupancy. Judging from the hotel's drab exterior and even drabber lobby, we were surprised to find thoroughly pleasant accommodations. The room was spacious, the mattresses firm and the bathroom well lighted. Best of all, the hotel had a prime location; once we parked our car at the hotel ($7.25 a day), we did not use it again until we left the city. The helpful kilt-wearing bellmen provided us with maps and directions for every point we hoped to cover. 
 That afternoon, and again the next morning, we went on a walking tour of the city. The lasting picture imprinted on my memory from our brief visit is of a vignette viewed from the top of the Halifax Citadel, the huge, star-shaped, 1830's-era stone fort that overlooks the harbor: The spire of the 1803 town clock is in the foreground; the city's skyline, which mingles 19th-century buildings with modern architecture of glass and steel, is in the background, and beyond them all the picture is framed by the blue waters of the harbor, where a schooner under full sail glides by. 
 We walked on through the city's justifiably famous Public Gardens, 17 acres of meticulously tended lawns and flower beds, then promptly fell asleep, head to head on two park benches -- our brief nap punctuated by the quacking of ducks in the nearby pond and the laughter of children running along the paths. 
 Dinner at Chives, a small bistro near the water, 1537 Barrington Street, (902) 420-9626, proved to be the culinary highlight of our trip. The mussels cooked in hard cider were meaty and tender, and the butter-poached halibut was snowy white, firm, moist and delectable. Our bill, with wine and a shared dessert, was $85. Afterward, we found a band from Scotland playing Celtic music at the Old Triangle, a packed corner pub. We walked back along the harbor, where a buskers' convention was winding down. 
 With so little time the next morning, we dashed through several sights that warrant much more extensive exploration. John W. Doull Booksellers offers two crammed floors of used books and specializes in nautical works, at 684 Barrington Street, (902) 429-1652. We could have happily spent several days there. At the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, we only peeked at some of the treasures, including the folk art of the Nova Scotia native Maud Lewis. And there was a quick stop at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic, which houses weapons, uniforms, models and other artifacts of Canadian naval history, including a fascinating display about a harbor explosion in 1917 that killed more than 2,000 people, injured 9,000, and leveled much of the city. A fair amount of Titanic memorabilia is also part of the museum (the bodies of the victims were taken to Halifax and many are buried in the city). 
 It was well past noon when we began our trip back to Yarmouth, stopping in Lunenburg, a lively seaside town. There we had lunch (chowder) on the porch of Big Red's and toured the Fisheries Museum of the Atlantic. We went aboard the museum's now-retired ''salt banker'' (a schooner that fished the Grand Banks and returned with salt cod) and chatted with a fisherman, now retired, who was taking down a sail. 
 We reached the Manor Inn Lakeside near Yarmouth about 8 p.m. The inn is conveniently located in Hebron, about 10 minutes from the ferry landing. Despite the inn's beautiful landscaping, we found our motel-style room cramped and in need of repairs (leaking toilet, torn screen). Dinner -- a salad (made limp with too much dressing) and dry, overcooked halibut -- cost $65 for two, with wine but no dessert. The inn's kitchen redeemed itself at breakfast with a large, satisfying meal of smoked local salmon, bagels and fruit (included in the package). Since our wake-up call had come at a much more genteel 6:30 a.m., we were awake enough to enjoy it and still make it to the ferry with ample time for the departure (9 a.m. Atlantic time, 8 a.m. Eastern or ''boat'' time). 
 Back onboard, we were shown to our tiny, cheerful day cabin (bunk beds, sink, porthole; $40 extra for an outside cabin) and high-tailed it to the upper deck to claim two chaise longues for the day. We passed our time among a gaggle of fellow passengers blissfully reading in the sunshine, with time out for a tasty lunch of broiled ocean perch, and a nap in our cabin. We then took a turn through the 4,000-square-foot casino, where the boinging of the slot machines lured us to risk (and lose) $5 each. We checked out the outdoor hot tubs, occupied by a pair of preteen boys trying playfully (we think) to drown each other. We landed exactly on time (7 p.m.) and were back home in Vermont by midnight.
 We would have liked to have had the option of staying an extra night in Halifax -- an option, I'm told, that may be available this year, with a more flexible approach to packaging the tours. Nevertheless, the trip lives in our mind as one crammed with a great variety of experiences: cruising, driving, walking, sightseeing, dining, reading. ''Short but sweet'' is the expression. It was. 

SHORTCUT TO NOVA SCOTIA

Cruise-Drive Basics
 Scotia Prince Cruises, 468 Commercial Street, in Portland, Me., (800) 341-7540, www.scotiaprince.com, offers daily ferry service to Yarmouth from Portland, and has 24 cruise-drive tours. They range in length from 4 days and 3 nights to 12 days and 11 nights. Prices (during high season, from late June through early September) in 2004 were $324.50 to $919.50, per person, double occupancy, at $1.24 Canadian to the U.S. dollar, excluding departure taxes and fuel charges and most meals (prices for this year are not expected to change significantly). Included are an economy cabin and a hotel room for each night on land. 
 Last fall, the Portland terminal, which is owned, operated and maintained by the city, was closed for safety reasons; the company moved operations to a nearby outdoor facility for the rest of the season and anticipates that the renovated terminal will reopen for the start of the 2005 season on May 19. 
 There are a variety of other tours and packages, including those for travelers who do not wish to take a vehicle onboard. Tour prices are lower during the spring and fall off-seasons. 
 For Nova Scotia tourism information, visit www.novascotia.com or call (800) 565-0000. 

Where to Stay
 Our package included two hotels regularly used for the tour. The Citadel Halifax Hotel, 1960 Brunswick Street, Halifax, (800) 565-7162, fax (902) 429-6672, www.citadelhalifax.com, is in the center of town. Its 266 rooms range from $72 to $217. 
 The Manor Inn Lakeside, Route 1, Box 56, Hebron; (888) 626-6746, fax (902) 742-8094, www.manorinn.com, has 45 rooms in two motel units, 5 in the Coach House and 5 in the main inn; $58 to $165. 

Attractions
 Halifax Citadel National Historic Site of Canada, Sackville and Brunswick Streets, (902) 426-5080; www.parkscanada.gc.ca; $7.25. 
 Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, 1723 Hollis Street; (902) 424-7542; www.agns.gov.ns.ca; $8. 
 Maritime Museum of the Atlantic, 1675 Lower Water Street; (902) 424-7490; www.maritime.museum.gov.ns.ca; $6.45 in summer, $3.25 in winter.
 Fisheries Museum of the Atlantic, 68 Bluenose Drive, Lunenburg, (866) 579-4909; www.fisheries.museum.gov.ns.ca; $7.25; free in winter.
 MARIALISA CALTA


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Scotia Prince approaches Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, in the fog. Departing from Portland, Me.
Lunenberg, near Yarmouth. John W. Doull Booksellers, Halifax. (Photographs by Bridget Besaw Gorman/Aurora, for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 Dining at Chives, a small bistro in Halifax. (Photo by Bridget Besaw Gorman/Aurora, for The New York Times)(pg. 16)Map of Maine, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia coastline highlighting Scotia Prince's route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); CASINOS (73%); FERRIES (73%); GAMING (72%); MARINE SHIPPING (67%) Travel and Vacations; Ships and Shipping; Cruises

PERSON: Marialisa Calta

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (93%) MAINE, USA (93%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (91%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (91%); EUROPE (74%) Yarmouth (Nova Scotia); Nova Scotia (Canada); Portland (Me)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



626 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Think of the Turnpike as a Huge Mall (With Wheels)

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus. 
Laura Mansnerus reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
ACTING GOV. RICHARD J. CODEY who has proposed leasing the New Jersey Turnpike in a scramble to keep the budget balanced and the state solvent -- may be on to something.
 The much-maligned turnpike might just be too important to be left in the hands of the state.
 Surely this notion has crossed the mind of anyone who has reached the Alexander Hamilton rest area at midnight, near starvation, to find nothing but boiled coffee and foil-wrapped objects under heat lamps straight out of 1950's flying- saucer movies. 
 The turnpike could be a retro treasure except it doesn't have fins, and what has the Turnpike Authority done with that? Nothing. People are still thinking of the turnpike as a way to get from here to there, and they resent paying to get from the Linden tanks to the Meadowlands truck pads.
 But what if it were, as they say, a destination? A road with a 1950's theme, for families? Has anyone at the authority thought of marketing the pop-culture ironic romance with the New Jersey Turnpike?
 Like a whole Mall of New Jersey? It would make Xanadu, the proposed ski slope/stadium bar/mall/gosh-knows-what-else look like a strip mall by comparison.
 The names of those rest areas could certainly be improved, by the way. Grover Cleveland? How inviting is that? More people would stop and shop if it were named Pheasant Meadow Run, or something like that. And everybody knows that the private sector cleans the bathrooms more often.
 Still, marketing and maintenance issues are thinking kind of small. In New Jersey, there's no deal like a real estate deal if you want to talk about money.
 This is already a state that will do anything for economic development, investing billions of dollars in public money to reap millions in tax revenue. You can try for decades to make Camden an economic engine, or you can just lease the public infrastructure and get the money tomorrow.
 If the state can lease the sports complex to a mall developer, why not the turnpike rest areas? The highest and best use of New Jersey real estate, to put it in developer language, is almost always a clot of retail. Wal-Mart is constantly looking for sites in high-traffic areas. Is a half-million cars a day high-traffic enough? You can never have too many conference centers or wedding palaces, or retirement high-rises, or putting greens.
 And is the turnpike easy access or what? And that's just the rest areas. While the turnpike exit is more of a concept than a piece of real estate, do not rule out naming rights.
 Then, too, consider the trimming of fat to be expected to benefit the new turnpike operator, of course, and thus increase its corporate business tax bill.
 In Chicago, where the city just turned over its Skyway to a private consortium for $1.3 billion, toll collectors' wages are being cut to $12 an hour from $20 an hour. With enough illegal aliens in the market, there's no telling how much more could be squeezed from the payroll.
 And who would you rather have in those hundreds of cubicles at the authority headquarters? Public employees who take off on Lincoln's birthday and Presidents Day, too? Or replacements who can be overworked and fired?
 In return for the breaks it got, the new Skyway operator has promised to only double the tolls on the highway in the next decade, to $4 from $2.
 There's another plus to privatizing the turnpike. If the tolls rose and the service declined, the new operator, and not the governor or Legislature, would get the flak. 
 Some of the blame does rub off on people in Trenton, as the Whitman administration's experiments with E-ZPass and auto inspections demonstrated, but after a few painful years everything is attributable to some long-ago governor, maybe even a dead one.
 Well, it was just an idea, the privatization thing. The Republicans hated it, which makes them even less like Republicans than they already are. Republicans are much more likely to propose bringing in private operators for things like the prison system or the urban school systems. And those are not funny at all.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); SKIING (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); RETAILERS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%) Roads and Traffic; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Richard J (Gov) Codey; Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey; New Jersey Turnpike

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



627 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Crystal Ball's Verdict on the Market's Future: Hazy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
AFTER studying the oracle bones and reading the tea leaves, I have found -- and I apologize up front for this murky conclusion -- that the stock market is neither particularly vulnerable to a big fall nor very well positioned for a rebound.
 This reading of the signs was undertaken because January has been so miserable: all three main market gauges are down 3.3 percent or more for the month, with one trading day left. Several analysts, including Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities, and Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed, disputed the significance of the negative month, arguing that nothing was learned that told investors anything about the market performance for the rest of the year.
 It may be silly to worry that history will repeat itself. But for the record, based on performance since 1945, there is about a two-thirds chance that the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index will be down for the year if each one declines in January. 
 If you are not going to worry about that, it makes sense to examine the current market environment to see whether conditions favor a rally. Unfortunately, the answer is not clear.
 Investor optimism has been in retreat since the end of 2004. That is a positive sign. Bullish sentiment often serves as a good contrarian indicator, so a decline from a relatively high level could mean that the market is less vulnerable to further declines.
 The two-week average of the bullish sentiment index of the American Association of Individual Investors was 44.7 on Friday, well below the 76.7 at the end of last year and the ninth-lowest reading since the beginning of 2003. The average between the election and the end of the year was 70.3.
 Another indicator, which measures the ratio of advancing and declining stocks and the trading volume in these stocks, is still giving a buy signal, according to Ned Davis Research. 
 Price-to-earnings ratios, one valuation measure, are way below the peak reached in 2001, the firm found. The P/E for the S.&P. 500 at the end of last week, using reported earnings, was 20.3. That is above the average for the last 25 years but nowhere near the peak of 46.5 in December 2001.
 The so-called Fed model, which weighs the value of stocks compared with bonds, is also giving a positive reading. When interest rates are low, this model says stocks are more attractive. At the moment, it says that the S.&P. 500 is 31.3 percent undervalued. That is more undervalued -- cheaper -- than at the end of last year, when the model's undervaluation was 26.8 percent.
 But interest rates are expected to rise this year, as Federal Reserve policy makers increase their benchmark short-term interest rate to keep inflation in check. (The policy makers meet again this week.)
 With higher rates, P/E valuations will look a little more costly, and the attractiveness of stocks under the Fed model will decline. In fact, one reason that stocks seem cheaper now under the Fed model than they did at the end of 2004 is that the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note has fallen. The S.&P. 500 is not so inexpensive by this measure as it was before the post-election rally. In late October the undervaluation was as much as 37.7 percent, the most attractive since June 2003.
 Several indicators suggest that the demand for stocks is waning.
 The number of stocks hitting new highs has fallen, while the number hitting new lows has climbed. During the post-election rally, the number of daily new highs on the New York Stock Exchange was 279, on average, compared with 10 new daily lows. Through Friday, the average number of daily new highs had dropped to 89 for the year while new lows had risen to 20. 
 The flagging of investor demand shows up in the flow of money in and out of equity mutual funds. January is usually a good month for inflows, but that is not the case this year, according to AMG Data Services.
 Through Wednesday, there was actually a net outflow of $229 million from all equity mutual funds. The big outflow, $4.4 billion, was from funds that invest in American stocks. While the month is not over -- and flows from some big mutual funds that report monthly are not included -- it is possible that January will register the first negative outflow for domestic stock funds since AMG began gathering data in 1992.
 These barometers -- which, really, are no more than the market's bones and tea leaves -- can be good measures of the current climate. At the moment, they predict neither sunny nor stormy weather. Still, Mr. McManus of Banc of America Securities says there is a good side to a down January: a lot of bad news has already been discounted by the stock market.
 So, he said, ''if things turn out to be better than investors think now, stocks are likely to go higher.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Valuation Gauge''Graph tracks price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500-stock index (trailing 12 months) since 2001.(Source by Ned Davis Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); WADDELL & REED INC (57%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); WDR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



628 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: One More 'Moral Value': Fighting Poverty

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
During the inaugural festivities in Washington this month, three evangelical Christian groups sponsored a black-tie ''Values Victory Dinner,'' where they celebrated the electoral strength of ''moral values'' as a factor in the campaign. In the shorthand of postelection polls and analysis, that meant opposition to abortion, gay marriage and stem cell research. 
 But many religious leaders, including some evangelicals, think the current focus on moral values has created a platform to talk about other issues, especially poverty, as both political and moral concerns. ''The good news about the bad news was that the spin doctors, whether they got it right or wrong, have said that values are so important to our political system,'' said Robert Edgar, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, an association of liberal denominations that represents more than 100,000 congregations. ''They've given an opportunity for us to say, 'We're people of faith, too, and we're going to talk about what the Bible says about poverty.' When nine million children are living in poverty, that's a moral value.'' 
 Mr. Edgar and other religious leaders across the theological spectrum are trying to shift the debate. Last week, Mr. Edgar announced an ecumenical summit meeting, sponsored or supported by more than 30 religious groups, to promote world peace and the elimination of global poverty. 
 Evangelical organizations, whose views were often stereotyped after the election, are also seeking a broader definition of moral values. ''We've let not evangelicals, but the right wing determine what moral values are,'' said David J. Frenchak, president of the Seminary Consortium for Urban Pastoral Education, a nondenominational group that helps develop urban ministry programs at 12 seminaries or divinity schools around the country. 
 In Chicago last weekend, Dr. Frenchak joined a gathering of 20 Christians, mostly evangelicals, to produce a book defining moral values to include a focus on poverty. At the meeting, one man held up a Bible from which he had cut every verse that addressed poverty. ''There was hardly anything left,'' Dr. Frenchak said. ''He said, 'I challenge anyone in the room to take their Bible and cut out every verse about abortion or gay marriage, and we'll compare Bibles.''' 
 Dr. Frenchak said he had been involved in more conversations about moral values in the past two months than ever before. ''We meet to discuss how poverty got left out of the discussion of moral values. The question is, 'How do we talk about what we do as a moral value, rather than as an assumed good?' I don't think a day goes by that I don't get some communication about rethinking an understanding of moral values.''
 In postelection analyses, ''values voters'' were often equated with evangelical Christians, just as ''values'' were equated with opposition to abortion and gay marriage. But evangelical churches and seminaries have become increasingly mobilized around poverty both in the United States and abroad. 
 ''This is the great secret story,'' said Jim Wallis, a progressive evangelical who runs Sojourners magazine and Call to Renewal, a network of religious groups committed to combating poverty. 
 ''The perception of evangelicals is that all they care about is abortion and gay marriage, but it isn't true,'' he said. ''It hasn't been for years.'' 
 Mr. Wallis has long tried to assemble a coalition of progressive or moderate evangelicals and Roman Catholics with mainline Protestant organizations on moral issues like poverty. Though his voice has sometimes been a lonely one, his new book, ''God's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It,'' enters the New York Times best-seller list this week at No. 11. Mr. Wallis, Dr. Edgar and other religious leaders, including Rabbi David Saperstein, director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, met with Democratic members of Congress to advise them on how Democrats could inject their faith and moral values into discussions of their policies, including those intended to help the poor. 
 ''There's serious new common ground to explore on poverty, across theological and political lines,'' Mr. Wallis said. ''Poverty is front and center, and not just among mainline Protestants, but at Fuller and Wheaton,'' he added, naming two of the nation's largest evangelical schools. 
 Glen E. Stassen, a professor of Christian ethics at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., said his students, who were largely conservative, agreed that poverty should be part of the moral values discussion. 
 ''A lot of Christians who are worried about abortion see poverty as a pro-life issue, because if you undermine the safety net for poor mothers, you'll increase the abortion rate and infant mortality rate,'' Dr. Stassen said. ''We've seen that happen since welfare reform, just as the Catholic bishops predicted.''
 Dr. Stassen, who describes himself as ''pro-life,'' added that many evangelicals, including his students, want to change the current moral values rhetoric because they think it drives people from, rather than to, the church. ''They're both offended and worried that it will persuade people concerned about justice that they should not be Christians,'' he said. 
 At Union Theological Seminary in New York City, a liberal school, students this year developed a nine-day course called the Poverty Immersion Experience to provide a practical grounding for the moral values discussion. 
 ''How do you preach on poverty?'' said Amy Gopp, one of the students who developed the course. ''People rely on theological apathy -- 'The poor will always be with us' -- things that don't demand that we do anything.''
 On a blustery January morning, Ms. Gopp and 10 classmates piled into a rented van to meet with a group of formerly homeless people in northeast Philadelphia who had organized to protest their condition. 
 The intent of the course is to get students to think ''beyond the soup kitchen'' or charity work and consider how religious institutions can address the underlying structure of poverty, said Willie Baptist, who is a scholar-in-residence at the seminary. A community activist and organizer, Mr. Baptist had been homeless in this Philadelphia neighborhood. ''We're not just crying crocodile tears about poverty or singing 'Kumbaya,''' he said. ''We're making contact with an organized section of the poor that's doing something about poverty.'' 
 The students visited neighborhoods where drugs are sold on street corners. They met a woman who described her experiences living in a tent city, including bathing her children in water from a hydrant. The woman is now on the staff at the Kensington Welfare Rights Union, an organization started by poor people in the neighborhood to call attention to their plight. 
 For some of the students, it was their first close look at urban poverty. ''I've done academic work on poverty, but here is a chance to meet poor people firsthand,'' said Paul Gremier, 23, who said he might use his education to become a minister, a social worker or a professor. 
 On the ride back to New York, Ted Pardoe, a former Wall Street executive, said the trip had given him ideas about ways to work with the poor through not-for-profit agencies. ''Yesterday I was skeptical about reality tours,'' Mr. Pardoe said. ''Now I'm not skeptical at all. Each person we met was more impressive than the one before.'' 
 There was little discussion of God or church on the trip, but lots of talk about values and responsibility. Andrea Metcalfe, who is studying to become a Lutheran minister, said she was frustrated that the issue of poverty had received so little attention in all the recent talk about values and voting. Ms. Metcalfe blamed a reticence among liberals to connect their faith publicly with their actions.
 ''There's this tendency for liberals to say, 'We don't want anything to do with mixing church and politics,''' Ms. Metcalfe said. As a result, she said, liberal Christians and their concerns have not entered the values debate. 
 Elizabeth Theoharis, a doctoral student and community activist who was leading the class with Mr. Baptist, challenged the students: ''How do we move from the idea of poor people being sinners to poverty being a sin?'' 
 That, she said, was a moral value, and the students agreed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Willie Baptist, in cap, an advocate for the poor, and graduate students Alicia Swords, left, and Elizabeth Theoharis, in Ithaca, N.Y., with Pete Meyers, an organizer for the Tompkins County Living Wage Coalition. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICS (77%); BIOETHICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); CHURCH & STATE (76%); ABORTION (76%); CHILD POVERTY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); CHILDREN (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); CITIES (63%); INFANT MORTALITY (59%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (57%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (56%) Abortion; Religion and Churches; Church-State Relations; Ethics; Christians and Christianity ; Evangelical Movement; Medicine and Health ; Infant Mortality; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (56%)

PERSON: John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



629 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Property Prices Too High? Some Funds Look Abroad

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
INVESTORS who worry that the American property market may be peaking have another option: putting money into real estate abroad.
 Such moves have become more attractive, thanks to the export of an American form of real estate ownership, the real estate investment trust. REIT's, which generally own commercial properties like office towers, shopping malls or apartment buildings, are required to distribute most of their profits as dividends each year. Within the last four years, France, Japan and Hong Kong have allowed real estate companies to operate like American REIT's, and lawmakers in Britain and Germany are taking steps in that direction. 
 The spread of this ownership structure has contributed to a flood of dollars into three American mutual funds that specialize in foreign real estate. Investors put $79.3 million into the two largest, Alpine International Real Estate and ING Global Real Estate, from July 1, 2004, through Wednesday, compared with a net inflow of $4.1 million to both funds in the first half of 2004, according to AMG Data Services.
 ''Investors are aware that real estate prices have moved up a lot in the U.S.,'' said Samuel A. Lieber, manager of the Alpine fund. ''There's too much money trying to chase property. Smart investors are saying, 'Let's go abroad.'''
 Real estate fund managers say that higher American property prices are not the only reason for investing overseas. Real estate priced in euros or Japanese yen, they say, may benefit from any further decline in the dollar. And owning foreign real estate is a good way to diversify a portfolio in general, because real estate markets around the world are not as closely linked as stock and bond markets. 
 ''All things being equal, I would rather invest in a REIT,'' said Steve Burton, co-manager of the ING fund, noting that REIT's are generally taxed at lower rates and tend to have higher dividends. 
 The Alpine and ING funds are the only large foreign real estate funds that are marketed to individual investors, and have been open at least a year. Alpine International Real Estate had a total return of 31.2 percent over the 12 months through Thursday; while ING Global Real Estate returned 22.9 percent, according to Morningstar Inc.
 Fidelity has joined the fray, too. The rising number of publicly traded property companies around the world and the adoption of REIT's in particular was one reason that its executives decided to start the Fidelity International Real Estate fund last year, said Steve Buller, the fund's manager. It opened on Sept. 15 and accrued $123 million in assets by Dec. 31. 
 Mr. Buller says he does not hedge currencies and has no plans to do so. Lately, that approach has helped the fund's performance. The fund returned more than 17 percent in its four months, and Mr. Buller attributes more than a third of that to the decline of the dollar. But if investors own shares for several years, currency movements should cancel one another out, he said.
 The ING fund has a 5.75 percent front-end load, or sales charge, while the other two funds are no-load. The ING portfolio also differs from the other two in that about half of its assets are usually invested in the United States; the other funds generally invest most of their assets abroad. Lately, the ING fund managers have not been hedging currencies, either, because ING research indicates that the dollar has more room to decline, Mr. Burton said. They may hedge in the future, he said, if they think the dollar is poised to rise. 
 Mr. Burton said he favored the Hong Kong real estate market because he thought it would benefit from economic growth in China. One of the fund's largest holdings is Sun Hung Kai, based in Hong Kong. The company owns a wide range of office, retail and residential properties, including a majority stake in IFC 2, a towering office building that opened on Hong Kong's waterfront a couple of years ago. Mr. Burton said that he expected Sun Hung Kai's earnings and cash flow to grow faster than those of most American property companies over the next few years; he also said that he thought the stock was trading at a 10 percent discount to the value of the properties owned by the company.
 Mr. Lieber also favors the Hong Kong real estate market. ''Real estate cycles are tied to economic cycles, and there's also a supply and demand issue,'' he said. ''If a market is very tight, you'll see prices jump, like they have in Hong Kong last year.'' He has invested 12 percent of the Alpine fund in Hong Kong, making it the second-largest market in the portfolio. The Hong Kong real estate market faltered after 1997, Mr. Lieber said, because of investor uncertainty about the British handover to China and the Asian currency crisis of 1997 and 1998. That market has since recovered to roughly the level it reached by the mid-1990's; but as the gateway to China, he said, Hong Kong still has strong growth prospects. 
 Mr. Lieber has not hedged currencies in the fund in the last two years, and he has no plans to do so again for a long while. 
 French companies account for 20 percent of the Alpine fund's holdings. Unibail, a French property company that was transformed into a real estate trust in 2003, is one of its largest. Shares of Unibail rose 56 percent in 2004, partly because of a company announcement in October that it intended to make a special distribution of 23 euros a share, or about $30, which it paid on Jan. 7.
 The distribution was generated, in part, by a large office tower, called the Coeur Defense, which Unibail opened in Paris in 2001 and completed leasing last summer. ''Unibail took a 60's-style building down to its skin, gutted it, modernized it, and added tremendous value,'' Mr. Lieber said.
 Club Med, which trades on the Paris exchange, is another French company that Mr. Lieber likes, though he said it would be more accurate to describe it as a global company because it owns resorts around the world. Executives are working to change Club Med's image, he said, emphasizing family getaways rather than the singles lifestyle. 
 BUT the recent flow of new money into foreign real estate funds gives pause to Dan McNeela, a Morningstar fund analyst. He said he was concerned that investors might be focusing too much on the gains these funds made during the fall -- gains that were partly fueled by the sharp decline in the dollar. ''These funds might not continue to have the same wind at their backs,'' he said.
 While Mr. McNeela said foreign real estate funds were a viable way to diversify, he advised investors not to put more than 10 percent of their portfolios in real estate funds of all kinds, including those that invest in the United States. But with that caveat, he added, ''I think foreign real estate funds might be the final step for investors building a well-rounded portfolio.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hong Kong real estate market is attractive to funds like Alpine International Real Estate and ING Global Real Estate. (Photo by Richard A. Brooks/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BONDS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); RETAILERS (57%) Real Estate; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (90%); ING GROEP NV (73%); BURTON CO (64%); MORNINGSTAR INC (62%); AMG DATA SERVICES (55%); FIDELITY INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Alpine Group Inc; Ing Group (Internationale Nederlanden Groep Nv); Fidelity Investments Group

TICKER: RLE (LSE) (90%); INGA (BIT) (73%); INGA (AMS) (73%); ING (NYSE) (73%); MORN (NASDAQ) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (90%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (73%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (73%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (73%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (73%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (73%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (73%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



630 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; PAPERBACK ROW; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 723 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:

LITTLE CHILDREN, by Tom Perrotta. (St. Martin's Griffin, $13.95.) Perrotta satirizes suburban child-raising in this absorbing novel. Beneath the surface, families are hothouses of boredom and disappointment, where everyone dreams of escape; Sarah (Richard's wife, Lucy's mother) and Todd (Kathy's husband, Aaron's father) find theirs in an affair. ''Bracingly tender moments stud Perrotta's satire,'' Will Blythe said here last year. The novel's ending ''is at once suspenseful, ruefully funny and ultimately generous.''

QUEER STREET: The Rise and Fall of an American Culture, 1947-1985: Excursions in the Mind of the Life, by James McCourt. (Norton, $17.95.) Part bildungsroman, part historical collage, this elegy to gay metropolitan culture includes thoughtful reflections on the postwar period's opera, theater, film and literature. It also chronicles McCourt's initiation into Manhattan's queer society from his Irish Catholic outer-borough beginnings.

ORACLE NIGHT, by Paul Auster. (Picador, $14.) In this inventive, multilayered novel, Sidney Orr, a struggling writer recovering from a near-fatal illness, has lost the will to write until he buys an exotic notebook in his Brooklyn neighborhood. Immediately stories begin to proliferate, turning the writer's sense of reality dangerously upside down.

ORIGINS OF THE CRASH: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing, by Roger Lowenstein. (Penguin, $15.) Lowenstein, author of ''Buffett'' and ''When Genius Failed,'' explains the epidemic of corruption (Enron, WorldCom, Tyco International) that spread through corporate America in the 1990's and tells us why the bull market crashed nearly five years ago. Maggie Mahar's BULL! A History of the Boom and Bust, 1982-2004 (HarperBusiness, $16.95) looks at the forces that created the latest market bubble and subsequent bust: naive investors, Wall Street pundits, greedy corporate executives and uncritical journalists.

BANDBOX, by Thomas Mallon. (Harvest/Harcourt, $13.) Set in pre-Depression New York City, Mallon's exuberant comedy of errors pits two glossy magazines in a circulation war sparked by the defection of an ambitious editor. Schemes and sabotage by both sides -- as well as police corruption, a lusty Hollywood actress and a mob kidnapping -- propel the plot. Our reviewer, Sven Birkerts, called Mallon's novel ''a fast-paced burlesque, crowded with familiar characters and familiar chatter.''

THE STORYTELLER'S DAUGHTER: One Woman's Return to Her Lost Homeland, by Saira Shah. (Anchor, $13.95.) The daughter of a distinguished Afghan expatriate family, Shah narrated ''Beneath the Veil,'' a courageous documentary about the Taliban's persecution of women in Afghanistan. Her memoir, written after repeated visits, explores Afghan mythology and the impact of Western interference. In THE ZANZIBAR CHEST: A Story of Life, Love, and Death in Foreign Lands (Riverhead, $15), Aidan Hartley, a journalist descended from a long line of British colonial administrators, fondly recalls growing up in East Africa and provides wrenching accounts of the continent's disaster zones, particularly Rwanda.

THE REST OF LOVE, by Carl Phillips. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $11.) Phillips's seventh collection, a National Book Award finalist, delivers sober, atmospheric reflections on love, desire and mutability. A trained classicist, Phillips plays complex syntax against free-verse line breaks, juxtaposing clarity and ambiguity. In ''Like Cuttings for a Wreath of Praise and Ransom,'' he writes, ''Clarity, versus / blur. / Fine distinctions. / Not, it seems, / the cries of joy. Not punishment -- think / in terms of, instead, / persuasion.'' Our critic, David Orr, called Phillips's poetry ''a showcase of penetrating, tasteful, well-honed lyricism.''

ESCAPING THE DELTA: Robert Johnson and the Invention of the Blues, by Elijah Wald. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $14.95.) Rewriting the music's history, Wald, a longtime folk guitarist and journalist, places the revered Mississippi bluesman Robert Johnson within a much broader context of black vaudeville and popular music of the 1920's and 30's.

SHOOTING THE SUN, by Max Byrd. (Bantam, $12.) Science fiction meets the Wild West in this entertaining novel about an 1840 expedition to photograph an eclipse of the sun, predicted by the Difference Engine, a real-life early computing machine. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Debi Milligan
 Doug Macomber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); FILM (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (66%); TALIBAN (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



631 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Poker Nuts and Nudists, Come Aboard

BYLINE: By AUSTIN CONSIDINE

 BODY:
It may be one of the few vacation options upon which nudists, Harley Davidson enthusiasts and economic policy wonks might agree -- not to mention gays, and fans of bluegrass music. Name a hobby, a personality type or a lifestyle choice and there seems to be a special-interest cruise geared to serve it. (Though wife-swapping cruises, which could be found on the fringes of the industry during the swinging 70's, have disappeared.)
 ''You're seeing greater choice,'' said Terry Dale, chief executive of the Cruise Lines International Association, adding that the cruise industry is always looking for ways to ''get new, first-time cruisers on board.''
 Specialty cruises fall into three broad categories: those for groups big enough (or with a shared interest like walking around the deck naked) or with the financial wherewithal to have a whole ship to themselves; those in which the groups are a significant enough part of the passenger list to influence the itinerary; and those organized by a cruise line with a broad appeal, like food and wine, fitness or personal finance cruises. 
 The ''theme'' cruise, as it is often called, has become a staple of the industry. It is offered on everything from 100-passenger riverboats to gigantic trans-Atlantic liners like Cunard's Queen Mary 2. At the same time, cruise ships are getting larger than ever, and inevitably, activities and service are in some cases becoming more standardized and less personal. Hence, the theme cruise is a selling point to passengers who want to avoid feeling that they will get a cookie-cutter experience on their vacations. 
 ''As we've gotten larger and larger ships in the main resort cruise section, particularly in the U.S., what I've found is that people get tired of standing in lines and being highly structured, and then they start to think about smaller ships, and so they want to downsize,'' said Douglas Ward, president of the Maritime Evaluations Group, based in Britain, and author of the book ''Ocean Cruising and Cruise Ships,'' now in its 20th edition. 
 ''I am convinced,'' Mr. Ward continued, ''that if we get larger and larger ships in the industry, it will actually filter off a lot of passengers into the niche market ships of 100 to 200 passengers in the years to come.''
 Relying solely on the Internet to find a cruise that caters to your own interests or hobbies can be unreliable. You might turn up a group that has put up a Web site to gauge interest but hasn't raised any money or made any connections with a cruise line yet. Mr. Dale emphasized the importance of starting a search by soliciting an educated, certified travel agent. Mr. Ward recommended confirming a group's legitimacy by contacting the cruise line ostensibly providing the ship. Mr. Ward also suggested contacting agencies like Landry & Kling (at www.landrykling.com) or Travel Dynamics International (www.traveldynamicsinternational.com), which specialize in organizing interest-group cruises.
 Here are some interesting niche cruises set for this spring and summer, with areas ranging from the progressive to the bizarre:

OLIVIA CRUISES & RESORTS -- Olivia charters entire cruise ships for lesbian-only vacations, often with a high celebrity quotient. (Past entertainers include K.D. Lang and the Indigo Girls, and recently Showtime's ''The L Word'' filmed an episode aboard an Olivia voyage). ''We are one of the top fastest-growing companies in the Bay area,'' said Olivia's president and founder, Judy Dlugacz. ''We're going to be taking close to 10,000 people on cruises next year.''
 Trips include an eastern Caribbean cruise April 3 to 10, departing from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and featuring a performance by Melissa Etheridge; double occupancy prices start at $1,299 a person (port tax and tips are not included). There is also a ''six-star culinary odyssey'' to the Greek islands and Venice from June 24 to July 1, $4,699 and up, departing from Athens. Information: (800) 631-6277; www.oliviatravel.com.

THE APPRENTICE LEGEND CRUISE -- Yes, it is what you think it is. Expedia.com and Trump World magazine have put together a theme cruise based on Donald Trump's reality show, where fans of ''The Apprentice'' can party with contestants from the second season and compete for prizes in ''Apprentice-type'' contests (one day as chief executive of Expedia is among the prizes). Those wishing to see Mr. Trump will have a chance at the send-off party, but, sorry, the Donald won't be joining the cruise.
 The cruise sails out of New York for the Caribbean Sept. 26 and returns Oct. 4. Reservations start at $1,199 per person based on double occupancy, mandatory government fees and tips not included. Information: (800) 504-3398; www.expedia.com/apprentice/.

CARD PLAYER CRUISES -- Attention poker players: This spring, you can play Texas Hold 'Em to your heart's content, watch movies about poker, learn from seminars put on by a number of stone-faced legends and even win a top prize of more than $1.87 million, all while sailing to Puerto Vallarta and Mazatlan, Mexico, on the PartyPoker.com Million IV tournament cruise. The seven-day Holland America cruise sails from San Diego on March 19. Most spots are reserved for those who qualify online through www.partypoker.com, but a limited number are available for those who wish to buy into the tournament for a fee of $10,500 a person; an additional fee for a double cabin for two people, including accommodations, port charges and food, starts at $2,200. Information: (888) 999-4880; www.cardplayercruises.com.

HISTORY AMERICA TOURS -- Since 1991, History America has been taking people ''where history happened,'' as its motto puts it, organizing small-size and informative cruises, often led by guest historian guides. This group doesn't charter entire ships, but signs on with smaller ships that agree to try to accommodate History America's itineraries on their cruises. Groups tend to be around 30 to 40 people. ''On average we take up about a quarter of the vessel's passengers,'' said the group's president, Julia Brown. ''Typically the way we work it, is that our historian -- the onboard lectures that he gives are open to everyone onboard. But then we have very specific shore tours just for our participants.''
 Trips include ''War in the Pacific: Through the Solomons to Rabaul,'' March 28 to April 12, led by the historian Edwin C. Bearss. It departs from Sydney, Australia, at rates starting at $6,730 a person in double occupancy, not including onboard charges and tips; ''Journey to the Czars: A Cruise Into the Russian Past,'' June 12 to 25, departing from Moscow, $1,595 and up. Information: (800) 628-8542; www.historyamerica.com.

BARE NECESSITIES TOUR AND TRAVEL -- The Web site of this group says it seeks to provide a safe, comfortable environment for people to hang out naked, and works to ''dispel the misconception that nudity, per se, is sexual or exploitive.'' Upon clicking ''enter,'' however, after reading the entire moral and legal disclaimer (of course), you had better make sure your boss isn't looking over your shoulder as you glance over the site's images -- full of exotic locales and plenty of bronzed bodies that haven't yet suffered gravity's effects too gravely.
 From Aug. 3 to 13, the group offers ''The Adriatic and the Royal Clipper,'' a cruise in a real clipper ship -- sails and all -- beginning in Venice, then proceeding to ports in Croatia, Sicily, Greece and other Italian destinations. Many of the spots are sold out, but of those that are left, double-occupancy cabins start at $2,745 per person, and do not include port charges and tips. Information: (800) 743-0405; www.bare-necessities.com. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The action on PartyPoker.com Million III. (Photo by PartyPoker.com)
 On a cruise by Olivia, which caters to lesbians. (Photo by Olivia) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (91%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARINE SHIPPING (69%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); WRITERS (60%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises

PERSON: Austin Considine

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



632 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8022 words

HEADLINE: The New Boss

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer, covers national politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
Purple is the color of Andrew Stern's life. He wears, almost exclusively, purple shirts, purple jackets and purple caps. He carries a purple duffel bag and drinks bottled water with a purple label, emblazoned with the purple logo of the Service Employees International Union, of which Stern is president. There are union halls in America where a man could get himself hurt wearing a lilac shirt, but the S.E.I.U. is a different kind of union, rooted in the new service economy. Its members aren't truck drivers or assembly-line workers but janitors and nurses and home health care aides, roughly a third of whom are black, Asian or Latino. While the old-line industrial unions have been shrinking every year, Stern's union has been organizing low-wage workers, many of whom have never belonged to a union, at a torrid pace, to the point where the S.E.I.U. is now the largest and fastest-growing trade union in North America. Once a movement of rust brown and steel gray, Big Labor is increasingly represented, at rallies and political conventions, by a rising sea of purple. 
 All of this makes Andy Stern -- a charismatic 54-year-old former social-service worker -- a very powerful man in labor, and also in Democratic politics. The job of running a union in America, even the biggest union around, isn't what it once was. The age of automation and globalization, with its ''race to the bottom'' among companies searching for lower wages overseas, has savaged organized labor. Fifty years ago, a third of workers in the United States carried union cards in their wallets; now it's barely one in 10. An estimated 21 million service-industry workers have never belonged to a union, and between most employers' antipathy to unions and federal laws that discourage workers from demanding one, chances are that the vast majority of them never will.
 Over the years, union bosses have grown comfortable blaming everyone else -- timid politicians, corrupt C.E.O.'s, greedy shareholders -- for their inexorable decline. But last year, Andy Stern did something heretical: he started pointing the finger back at his fellow union leaders. Of course workers had been punished by forces outside their control, Stern said. But what had big labor done to adapt? Union bosses, Stern scolded, had been too busy flying around with senators and riding around in chauffeur-driven cars to figure out how to counter the effects of globalization, which have cost millions of Americans their jobs and their pensions. Faced with declining union rolls, the bosses made things worse by raiding one another's industries, which only diluted the power of their workers. The nation's flight attendants, for instance, are now divided among several different unions, making it difficult, if not impossible, for them to wield any leverage over an entire industry. 
 Stern put the union movement's eroding stature in business terms: if any other $6.5 billion corporation had insisted on clinging to the same decades-old business plan despite losing customers every year, its executives would have been fired long ago.
 ''Our movement is going out of existence, and yet too many labor leaders go and shake their heads and say they'll do something, and then they go back and do the same thing the next day,'' Stern told me recently. He is a lean, compact man with thinning white hair, and when he reclines in the purple chair in his Washington office and crosses one leg over the other, he could easily pass for a psychiatrist or a math professor. He added, ''I don't have a lot of time to mince words, because I don't think workers in our country have a lot of time left if we don't change.'' 
 A week after the election in November, Stern delivered a proposal to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. that sounded more like an ultimatum. He demanded that the federation, the umbrella organization of the labor movement, embrace a top-to-bottom reform, beginning with a plan to merge its 58 unions into 20, for the purpose of consolidating power. If the other bosses wouldn't budge, Stern threatened to take his 1.8 million members and bolt the federation -- effectively blowing up the A.F.L.-C.I.O. on the eve of its 50th anniversary. Stern's critics say all of this is simply an excuse to grab power. ''What Andy's doing now with his compadres is what Vladimir Putin is trying to do to the former Communist bloc countries,'' says Tom Buffenbarger, president of the union that represents machinists and aerospace workers. ''He's trying to implement dictatorial rule.'' 
 Stern says he is done caring what the other bosses think. ''If I don't have the courage to do what my members put me here to do, then how do I ask a janitor or a child-care worker to go in and see a private-sector employer and say, 'We want to have a union in this place'?'' Stern asks. ''What's my risk? That some people won't like me? Their risk is that they lose their jobs.''
 The implications of Stern's crusade stretch well beyond the narrow world of organized labor and into the heart of the nation's politics. The stale and paralyzed political dialogue in Washington right now is a direct result of the deterioration of industrial America, followed by the rise of the Wal-Mart economy. Lacking any real solutions to the growing anxiety of working-class families, the two parties have instead become entrenched in a cynical battle over who or what is at fault. Republicans have made an art form of blaming the declining fortunes of the middle class on taxes and social programs; if government would simply get out of the way, they suggest, businesses would magically provide all the well-paying jobs we need. Democrats, meanwhile, cling to the mythology of the factory age, blaming Republican greed and ''Benedict Arnold C.E.O.'s'' -- to use John Kerry's phrase -- for the historical shift toward globalization; if only Washington would close a few tax loopholes, they seem to be saying, the American worker could again live happily in 1950.
 About the last place you might expect to find a more thoughtful and compelling vision for the global age is in the fossilized, dogmatic leadership of organized labor. But Andy Stern is a different kind of labor chief. He intends to create a new, more dynamic kind of movement around the workers of the 21st century. And if some old friends in labor and the Democratic Party get their feelings hurt in the process, that's all right with him.

The Old Boss
Earlier this month, Tom Buffenbarger invited me down to the machinists' union's training facility on the Patuxent River in southern Maryland, about a 90-minute drive from Washington. The little campus features 87 hotel rooms, a library, a theater and a dockside dining room. There was no training going on that week, and as I wandered the empty halls, I peered into glass cases containing some of the products made by the heavy-machine operators and plant workers who make up much of the union's rank and file: a parking meter, aluminum soda cans, a Winchester rifle, a box of animal crackers. There were black-and-white photos of the union's past presidents with Harry Truman, Hubert Humphrey and Ted Kennedy. I glimpsed an exhibit meant to celebrate what the machinists apparently considered a triumphant moment: the Eastern Airlines strike that began in 1989 and ended, two years later, with the destruction of the company. It was as if I had wandered into the industrial economy's version of Jurassic Park: ''Welcome to Laborland, U.S.A., and please be careful -- there are actual union leaders wandering around.''
 At its zenith, in 1969, the machinists' union was about a million strong, but that was before robots supplanted assembly-line workers and Chinese factories began replacing a lot of American plants. The union now has some 380,000 active, dues-paying members. Buffenbarger told me that the union had lost more than 100,000 members in the last four years alone -- members whose jobs were eliminated or moved overseas -- for which he placed the blame squarely on free-trade deals and the Bush administration. Buffenbarger looks like what you would probably imagine a union boss to look like. He is a big, fleshy man with a bald crown and ursine hands. He began his career, decades ago, as a tool-and-dye apprentice. Now he flies around in the union's very own Lear jet. ''We couldn't do what we do without it,'' he explained unapologetically. 
 Buffenbarger said that Andy Stern is wrong in his central point about the labor movement: in fact, unions have as much power as ever. The problem, as Buffenbarger sees it, is one of public relations and messaging. All the unions need to do to reverse their fortunes, Buffenbarger said, is to speak up louder. To that end, Buffenbarger has proposed that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. spend $188 million to create, among other things, a Labor News Network on cable TV. ''There is no bigger organization than the collective labor movement,'' he told me. ''Even the N.R.A. doesn't have 13 million members. But they act like they do, and I think that's where we fall down. We need to act like we do.''
 In a speech earlier that morning, Buffenbarger took on Stern, portraying him as an arrogant usurper and comparing him to ''a rather small peacock.'' Buffenbarger, of course, stands to lose clout if the A.F.L.-C.I.O. meets Stern's demands, since the machinists might well be forced to merge with other unions, some of whom might not see the need for a private jet. But I sensed a reason for his resentment that went beyond simple self-interest; underneath his rhetoric, you could detect the fault line between an industrial economy and a service economy, between old labor and new. Buffenbarger sneered at Stern's Ivy League education -- Stern got his degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where he spent his freshman year studying business -- and mocked him for setting up a blog. What Buffenbarger didn't like about Stern is that he looked and sounded so much like management.
 ''He's trying to corporatize the labor movement,'' Buffenbarger said. ''When you listen to him talk, it's all about market share. It's about loss and gain. It's about producers and consumers.'' He wrinkled his face when he said this, as if the words themselves tasted sour in his mouth. ''I think he's enamored of all the glitz and hype of the Wall Street types. He must be a fan of Donald Trump. I think he wants his own TV show.''

Re-engineering the Union
Stern, it's true, is about as far from a tool-and-dye man as you can get. His father built a profitable legal practice in northern New Jersey by catering to small Jewish businesses, helping their owners make the jump from corner store to full-service retailer. After college, where, by his own account, he mostly avoided thinking about classes or the future, an aimless Stern took a job with the Pennsylvania welfare department, compiling case histories for aid recipients. The department's social-service workers had just won the right to collective bargaining, and a group of young idealists, Stern included, seized control of the local union.
 Nothing in Stern's prototypically suburban background made him a natural candidate for organized labor -- for many affluent college kids of his generation, the notion of unions brought to mind images of dank social halls and cigar-chewing thugs -- but this was the early 1970's, and when you had a genuine chance to scream truth to power, you took it. Soon he went to work full time for the union. Stern and his cadre got the pay increases and better benefits they demanded -- and went on strike anyway. ''Most of us were just playing union,'' he says now, laughing. ''We'd watched enough movies so we could figure it out.'' 
 Unlike most union bosses, who rise up through the administrative ranks, ploddingly building alliances and dispatching their enemies, Stern spent most of his career as an organizer in the field, taking on recalcitrant employers and bargaining contracts. In 1984, John Sweeney, then the president of the S.E.I.U., summoned Stern to Washington to coordinate a national organizing drive. When Sweeney ran for president of the entire A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1995, Stern helped run his campaign; after Sweeney won, the brash and ambitious Stern maneuvered to replace him as head of the S.E.I.U. The ensuing drama was a classic of labor politics. Before an election could be held, Sweeney left the union in the hands of a top lieutenant, who wasted no time in firing Stern and having him escorted from the building. As Stern tells the story, he vowed that he wouldn't set foot back in the L Street headquarters unless he was moving into the president's fifth-floor office. Six weeks later, his reform-minded allies in the locals helped get him elected, and he became, at 45, the youngest president in the union's history.
 Having grown up around his father's small-business clients, and having spent much of his adult life at bargaining tables, Stern had learned a few things about the way business works. He came to embrace a philosophy that ran counter to the most basic assumptions of the besieged labor movement: the popular image of greedy corporations that want to treat their workers like slaves, Stern believed, was in most cases just wrong. The truth was that companies in the global age, under intense pressure to lower costs, were simply doing what they thought they had to do to survive, and if you wanted them to behave better, you had to make good behavior viable for them. 
 Stern's favorite example concerns the more than 10,000 janitors who clean the office buildings in the cities and suburbs of northern New Jersey. Five years ago, only a fraction of them were unionized, and they were making $10 less per hour than their counterparts across the river in Manhattan. Stern and his team say they were convinced from talking to employers in the fast-growing area that the employers didn't like the low wages and poor benefits much more than the union did. Cleaning companies complained that they had trouble retaining workers, and the workers they did keep were less productive. The problem was that for any one company to offer better wages would have been tantamount to an army unilaterally disarming in the middle of a war; cheaper competitors would immediately overrun its business. 
 The traditional way for a union to attack this problem would be to pick the most vulnerable employer in the market, pressure it to accept a union and then try to expand from there. Instead, Stern set out to organize the entire market at once, which he did by promising employers that the union contract wouldn't kick in unless more than half of them signed it. (Getting the first companies to enter into the agreement took some old-fashioned organizing tactics, including picket lines.) The S.E.I.U. ended up representing close to 70 percent of the janitors in the area, doubling their pay in many cases, from minimum wage to more than $11 an hour. Stern found that by bringing all of the main employers in an industry to the table at one time, rather than one after the other, he was able to effectively regulate an entire market.
 Stern talks about giving ''added value'' to employers, some of whom have come to view him, warily, as a partner. At about the time Stern took over the union, his locals in several states were at war with Beverly Health and Rehabilitation Services, an Arkansas-based nursing-home chain. The company complained that cuts in state aid were making it all but impossible to pay workers more while operating their facilities at a profit. Stern and his team proposed an unusual alliance: if Beverly would allow its workers to organize, the S.E.I.U.'s members would use their political clout in state legislatures to deliver more money. It worked. ''I do believe Andy's a stand-up guy,'' says Beverly Health's C.O.O., Dave Devereaux.
 At the same time Stern was employing inventive labor tactics to work with business, he was also using new-age business theory to remake the culture of his union. When Stern came into power, the S.E.I.U. represented a disparate coalition of local unions that identified themselves by different names and maintained separate identities. This was the way it had always been, which was fine in an era when employers and unions were confined to individual markets. To Stern, however, this was now a problem. If his members were going to go up against national and global companies, they were going to have to convey the size and stature of a national union. ''You know your employer is powerful, so you want to believe you're part of something powerful as well'' is the way he explained it to me. 
 Stern hired a corporate consulting firm versed in the jargon of the new economy and undertook a campaign to ''rebrand'' the union. He used financial incentives to get all the local branches of the union to begin using the S.E.I.U. name, its new logo and, of course, its new color. In some respects, the S.E.I.U. now feels very much like a Fortune 500 company. In the lobby of its headquarters, a flat-screen TV plays an endless video of smiling members along with inspirational quotes from Stern, as if he were Jack Welch or Bill Gates. The union sold more than $1 million worth of purple merchandise through its gift catalog last year, including watches, sports bras, temporary tattoos and its very own line of jeans. (The catalog itself features poetry from members and their children paying tribute to the union, along with recipes like Andy Stern's Chocolate Cake With Peanut-Butter Frosting.) 
 In all of this, Stern's critics in other unions see a strange little cult of personality. Another way to look at it, though, is that Stern understands the psychology of a movement; workers in the union want to feel as if someone is looking out for them. When he and I walked into the S.E.I.U. campaign office in Miami shortly before the presidential election, the union's activists greeted him with hugs or shy smiles. Stern took a moment to chat with each member. ''I got to have my picture taken with you once before, you know,'' one man told him proudly. ''You mean I got have my picture taken with you,'' Stern replied with the timing of a politician. 
 As the S.E.I.U. was soaring in membership and strength during the late 90's, much of big labor was seeing its influence further erode. And there were those who thought the S.E.I.U. wasn't doing enough for the movement as a whole. Cecil Roberts, president of the mineworkers, personally challenged Stern to follow the example of the mineworkers' legendary leader John L. Lewis, who helped build up the entire labor movement in the 1930's. But Stern demurred. Just running the union was taking all of his time, and what was left he wanted to spend with his son, Matt, and his daughter, Cassie. There would be time later, when his children were older, to think about reshaping the future of American labor. 
 Then, all at once, Stern's personal world collapsed. A little more than two years ago, Cassie, 14, who was born unusually small and with poor muscle tone, became ill after returning home from a routine operation, stopped breathing in her father's arms and died. In the aftermath, Stern's 23-year marriage to Jane Perkins, a liberal advocate, unraveled. He rented an apartment in northwest Washington and shed most of his furniture, hurling himself into his work at the union. He is very close to his 18-year-old son, but his son splits his time between his parents' homes. On weeks when Stern is alone, he told me, he looks forward to stopping by the Dancing Crab, a local bar, to eat dinner alone and read the paper. ''I'm in a very transitional moment of life,'' he says.
 Often, when Stern talks about his daughter, he wanders off, without really meaning to, into a story about a union member he has met somewhere who reminds him of Cassie, or whose own daughter -- ''someone else's Cassie'' -- is stuck in a failing school. The recollections bring him to the brink of tears. It is as if he can't help conflating the fate of workers with the fate of his daughter. Time has become a paradox for him; on one hand, he has more of it than ever before, and yet, he can't escape the panicky feeling that time is running out. 
 ''When Cassie died,'' Stern said, ''it was like: 'I'm 52 years old. How many more years am I really going to do this? Why am I so scared to say what I really think?' '' If he were a religious man, Stern told me, he might think that it was not a coincidence that he was given, through his loss, so much free time and clarity at the very moment when organized labor was in crisis. He says it would be comforting to believe he has been chosen for a mission. It is clear, from the way he says this, that part of him believes it anyway.

Big Labor's Big Brawl
Stern's plan to rescue the American worker begins with restructuring the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Since the 1960's, a lot of struggling unions have chosen to merge rather than perish, to the point where there are half as many unions in the federation today as there were at its height. Stern argues that this Darwinian process, so lamented by labor leaders, is in fact healthy, and hasn't gone far enough. Unions, he says, work best when they're large enough to organize new workers at the same time as they fight battles on behalf of old ones, and when they represent a large concentration of the workers in any one industry. Smaller unions lack the muscle to organize entire markets the way that the S.E.I.U. has been able to do with janitors and home health care workers. At the same time, some unions have desperately scrambled to maintain or increase their memberships -- and thus their revenue -- by signing up workers well outside their core areas. So the United Auto Workers ends up representing graduate students, and the machinists represent park rangers. This is self-defeating, Stern argues; all it does is divide labor's strength.
 Stern's 10-point plan would essentially tear down the industrial-age framework of the House of Labor and rebuild it. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., he says, would consist of 20 large unions, and each union would be devoted to a single sector of the 21st-century economy, like health care or airlines. Ever the apostle of field organizing, Stern wants these restructured unions to put more time and resources into recruiting new members in fast-growing exurban areas -- in the South and the West especially -- where a new generation of workers has never belonged to a union. His plan would slash the amount that each union pays in dues to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. by half, provided that those unions put some of the money back into local organizing. This is not a small idea; it would, essentially, take resources away from the federation's headquarters, which uses it for policy studies and training programs, and give it back to the guys who set up picket lines and rallies. 
 The basic strategy is to take the same principles Stern demonstrated organizing New Jersey's janitors and make them the model for the entire American labor movement. If only two or three large unions represented all the nation's health care workers, they could go into a growing market -- Reno, say, or Albuquerque -- and bargain with all the hospitals at the same time. Labor would be able to focus on setting standards for entire industries, as opposed to battling one employer at a time. 
 Stern's plan has incited fury within a lot of smaller unions, whose members don't seem to think the movement needs a self-appointed savior. The proposed reorganization would sweep away a lot of small unions as if they were debris on the factory floor. ''Andy is impatient, and he sprang this on his peers without any discussion,'' says John Sweeney, Stern's former mentor. ''I think he needs to stand still for a minute and listen to what other people think, and learn from other experiences as well.'' 
 You would imagine, given how often Stern's critics have called him arrogant, that he'd be used to it by now, but clearly the word still stings him. He is a man who prides himself on his emotional connection with janitors and nursing aides, and he almost cannot bear the suggestion that he thinks he's smarter than everyone else. Stern prefers to see himself as a man who gets along with all kinds of people, whether they drive the limousine or ride in the back. (''I actually was the most popular person in my high-school class,'' he once told me.) 
 During an airport layover, I saw him open his laptop and peruse the Unite to Win blog. (Stern actually contributes from time to time to three separate blogs, including Purpleocean.org, an S.E.I.U. site designed for like-minded people who aren't even in a union.) Stern established the online forum so that everyone in the labor movement -- whether supportive of his plan or opposed to it -- could tell him exactly what they thought of his ideas. They haven't held back. ''Sometimes I really hate this,'' he said in the airport lounge, wincing slightly. ''I don't like seeing my name there and people calling me an arrogant idiot.''
 Even Stern's allies admit that his ultimatum to big labor is a little high-handed. John Wilhelm, co-president of the union that represents hotel, restaurant and garment workers, is supportive of Stern, and Wilhelm is said to be considering a challenge to Sweeney when he runs for another term as A.F.L.-C.I.O. president this year. But he said he disagrees with Stern's idea of merging unions against their will. Because Stern's union is so powerful, Wilhelm told me, Stern doesn't always feel the need to tread as softly as he might. ''Frankly, he doesn't have to be as diplomatic as others do,'' Wilhelm said. ''There's a thin and perhaps indiscernible line between a person who comes across as arrogant and a person who tries to tell the truth even when it's unpleasant. And the truth about our labor movement is unpleasant.''
 When I first started talking to Stern about his controversial plan last summer, he seemed to regard it more as a provocation to big labor than as a proposal that might actually be adopted. He talked as if he were resigned to the idea that the S.E.I.U. would ultimately break from the federation. But as the next meeting of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive board in March draws near, there seems to be in union headquarters around the nation the faintest stirrings of a revolt. Stern's ideas have become the basis for an entirely new debate about the future of labor, and now several unions have offered their own, more modest versions of a reform plan in response. The biggest surprise came in December, when James P. Hoffa, president of the famously old-school Teamsters, weighed in with a set of recommendations quite similar to Stern's. 
 Increasingly, the question for Stern is not whether he is prepared to leave the A.F.L.-C.I.O., but how much of his plan has to be enacted in order for the S.E.I.U. to stay. It is a question he evades. ''What I won't do,'' he said, ''is pretend we made change. It's not worth having this fight or discussion if, in the end, you can't look people in the eye and say we really have taken a big step forward.''

Workers of the World, Globalize?
Even if big labor eventually does come to be made up of bigger unions, Stern sees a larger challenge: can you build a multinational labor movement to counter the leverage of multinational giants whose tentacles reach across oceans and continents? The emblem of this new kind of behemoth, of course, is Wal-Mart, the nation's largest employer. Wal-Mart has, in a sense, turned the American retail model inside out. It used to be that a manufacturer made, say, a clock radio, determined its price and the wages of the employees who made it and then sold the radio to a retail outlet at a profit. Wal-Mart's power is such that the process now works in reverse: in practice, Wal-Mart sets the price for that clock radio, and the manufacturer, very likely located overseas, figures out how low wages will have to be in order to make it profitable to produce it. In this way, Wal-Mart not only resists unions in its stores with unwavering ferocity but also drives down the wages of its manufacturers -- all in the service of bringing consumers the lowest possible price.
 ''What was good for G.M. ended up being good for the country,'' Stern says. ''What's good for Wal-Mart ends up being good for five families'' -- the heirs to the Walton fortune. Stern's reform plan for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. includes a $25 million fund to organize Wal-Mart's workers. But as a retail outlet, Wal-Mart doesn't really fall within the S.E.I.U.'s purview. What Stern says he is deeply worried about is what he sees as the next generation of Wal-Marts, which are on his turf: French, British and Scandinavian companies whose entry into the American market threatens to drive down wages in service industries, which are often less visible than retail. ''While we were invading Iraq, the Europeans invaded us,'' Stern says. Most of these companies have no objection to unionizing in Europe, where organized labor is the norm. But when they come to the United States, they immediately follow the Wal-Mart model, undercutting their competitors by shutting out unions and squeezing paychecks. 
 Take, for instance, the case of Sodexho, a French company that provides all the services necessary to operate corporate buildings, from catering the food to guarding the lobby. In Europe, Sodexho is considered a responsible employer that works with unions and compensates its employees fairly. In the United States and Canada, where the company employs more than 100,000 workers, Sodexho's policy is to discourage its employees from joining unions. As a maneuver to get Sodexho to the bargaining table, last year the S.E.I.U. resorted to taking out ads in French newspapers, shaming the company's executives in their own country, where the idea of scorning unions is considerably less chic. Stern says Sodexho has started negotiating.
 Stern's big idea for coping with this new kind of multinational nemesis is to build a federation of unions, similar to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. except that its member unions would come from all over the world. As Stern explained it, a French company might not be so brazen about bullying American workers if it had to worry about a French union protesting back home. The point, he said, is to force companies like Sodexho to adhere to the same business standards in New York and Chicago as it does in Paris, by building a labor alliance that is every bit as global as modern capital. 
 At first, this global vision sounded a little dreamy to me, as if Stern might have been watching too many ''Superfriends'' reruns. Then he invited me, just before Christmas, on a one-day trip to Birmingham, England. The occasion was a meeting of Britain's reform-minded transportation union. Tony Woodley, the union's general secretary, flashed a broad smile and threw his arm around Stern when Stern arrived, after flying all night, to give the keynote address. Two S.E.I.U. employees were already on hand; it turned out that Stern had dispatched them to London temporarily to help Woodley set up an organizing program.
 As we drank coffee backstage, Stern and Woodley told me about the case of First Student, a company that in the last few years had become the largest, most aggressive private school-bus company in the United States. The company had become a target of S.E.I.U. locals in several cities because it wouldn't let its drivers unionize. ''We keep seeing these things about them in the union newsletter,'' Stern said. ''And it starts nibbling at your brain. I said: 'Who are these people, First Student? What's going on here?' And then we do a little research, and we find out what idiots we are. This is a major multinational company. They're 80 percent unionized in the United Kingdom. So we write a letter to the union here, and we say, 'Can you help us?' ''
 Woodley sent British bus drivers to Chicago to meet with their American counterparts. Then the American bus drivers went to London, and lobbyists for the British union took them to see members of Parliament. They also held a joint demonstration outside the company's annual meeting. Woodley told me that First Student -- known as First Group in Britain -- was now making a bid for rail contracts there, and his union intended to lobby against it unless the company sat down with its American counterparts in Florida and Illinois.
 I asked Woodley, who looks like Rudy Giuliani with more hair, why he would use his own union's political capital to help the S.E.I.U. He nodded quickly, in a way that suggested that there were a lot of people who didn't yet understand this. He explained that it worked both ways; his union was suffering at the hands of multinationals, too, and Stern would be able to return the favor by pressuring American companies doing business in Britain. Moreover, Woodley went on to say, if European companies get used to operating without unions in America, it might be only a matter of time before they tried to export that same mentality back to Europe. ''I don't expect miracles,'' Woodley said. ''I don't expect international solidarity to bring huge companies to their knees overnight. But we've got to do a damn sight more than we're doing.''
 Stern invited the top executives of about a dozen unions from Europe and Australia to a meeting in London this April, which will be the maiden gathering of what he says he hopes will become a formalized global federation. He recently met with union leaders in Beijing too. Most labor experts assume that the Chinese unions are tools of the business-friendly government, but Stern says he came away believing that they are as jolted by the global economy as workers in America. ''You have to understand, they're just seeing something new,'' he says. ''These are public unions that are used to health benefits and real discussions, and suddenly they're meeting these huge corporations -- like Wal-Mart -- that, because the executives can make a phone call to someone in the local government, won't even talk to them. It's all new.''
 There are, however, painful questions inherent in globalizing the labor movement. At a recent meeting with his executive board, Stern mused out loud about the possibility of conducting a fact-finding mission to India, along with executives from one of the companies outsourcing its jobs there. Perhaps that could be a first step, he thought, toward raising the pay of Indian workers who have inherited American jobs. 
 Then Stern stopped himself and considered a problem. Sure, there was an obvious logic to unionizing foreign phone operators or machinists: American workers won't be able to compete fairly for jobs until companies have to pay higher wages in countries like China and India. But how would it look to workers in America? How would you avoid the appearance that you were more worried about the guy answering the phone in Bangalore than you were about the guy he replaced in Iowa? John Kerry and other Democrats had been railing against the C.E.O.'s who outsourced American jobs -- and here was Andy Stern, considering joining forces with those very same C.E.O.'s to make sure their Indian workers were making enough money.
 ''The truth is that as the living standard in China goes up, the living standard in Ohio goes down,'' Stern said. ''What do you do about that? Are we a global union or an American union? This is a hard question for me to answer. Because I'm not comfortable with the living standard here going down. This is a question I think we need to think about going forward, but I don't think that means we should be scared.''
 The idea of a global union isn't entirely new. But the concept has never been translated into a formal alliance, and experts who study labor think Stern may be onto something important. I realized during our brief time in Birmingham why Stern seemed ambivalent about whether the A.F.L.-C.I.O. approved his reform plan, or whether his union even stayed in the federation. In a sense, no matter how the conversation is resolved, it is bound to lag a full generation behind the reality of the problem; it is as if the unions are arguing against upgrading from LP's to compact discs while the rest of the world has moved on to digital downloads. Even if the leaders of big labor do kill off half their unions and reorganize the rest, all they will have done, at long last, is create a truly national labor movement -- at exactly the moment that capital has become a more sprawling and more obstinate force than any one nation could hope to contain. 

Re-engineering The Party
The more Andy Stern looks at organized labor and the Democratic Party, the more he sees the parallels between them. Like big labor, the modern Democratic Party was brought into being by imaginative liberal thinkers in the 1930's and reached its apex during the prosperity of the postwar industrial boom. Like the union bosses, Democratic leaders grew complacent in their success; they failed to keep pace with changing circumstances in American life and didn't notice that their numbers were steadily eroding. Now, Stern says, Democrats and the unions both find themselves mired in the mind-set of a bygone moment, lacking the will or perhaps the capacity to innovate or adapt. What you see in both cases, Stern told me, borrowing from the new-age language of business theory, is ''the change pattern of a dying institution.''
 The big conversation going on in Democratic Washington at the moment, at dinner parties and luncheons and think-tank symposia, revolves around how to save the party. The participants generally fall into two camps of unequal size. On one side, there is the majority of Democrats, who believe that the party's failure has primarily been one of communication and tactics. By this thinking, the Democratic agenda itself (no to tax cuts and school vouchers and Social Security privatization; yes to national health care and affirmative action) remains as relevant as ever to modern workers. The real problem, goes this line of thinking, is that the party has allowed ruthless Republicans to control the debate and has failed to sufficiently mobilize its voters. A much smaller group of prominent Democrats argues that the party's problems run deeper -- that it suffers, in fact, from a lack of imagination, and that its core ideas are more an echo of government as it was than government as it ought to be. 
 Virtually everyone in the upper echelons of organized labor belongs solidly to the first camp. Stern has his feet firmly planted in the second. The economic policy of the Democratic Party, he says, ''is basically being opposed to Republicans and protecting the New Deal. It makes me realize how vibrant the Republicans are in creating 21st-century ideas, and how sad it is that we're defending 60-year-old ideas.'' Like big labor, Stern says, the party needs to challenge its orthodoxy -- and its interest groups -- if it wants to put forward a program that makes sense for new-economy workers. Could it be that the Social Security system devised in the 1930's isn't, in fact, the only good national retirement program for today's wage earner? Is it possible that competition is the best way to rescue an imperiled public-school system?
 ''I'm not convinced that you can do this from the inside,'' Stern told me at one point. Just as he is willing to strike out from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., he doesn't rule out a split from the Democratic Party. ''I feel like we have to do everything we can within our power to get both the labor movement and the parties in this country to represent workers the way they should,'' he said. ''And if we can't, then we have to decide what our strategy is. Do we spend all our money running ballot initiatives and forget about candidates? Do we look for people to create an independent worker party? I don't know.''
 Stern isn't the only Democrat in Washington making this case -- but he may be the most powerful and connected. Among his friends and allies he counts at least two billionaires: the financier George Soros and the philanthropist Eli Broad, who is talking with Stern about ideas to reform Los Angeles schools. Stern was one of the founding members of America Coming Together, the largest private get-out-the-vote effort ever assembled. His top political aide, Anna Burger, who is the S.E.I.U.'s secretary treasurer, recently took a seat on the board of the Democracy Alliance, a network of wealthy liberal donors. How Stern wields this influence -- and his union's money -- can have a real impact on the direction of the party.
 Other union leaders can spend their money on Buffenbarger's news network if they want, but Stern seems bent on leveraging his money against the party establishment. Last year, while he campaigned as many as six days a week for Kerry and other Democrats, Stern nevertheless undertook a series of actions that infuriated party leaders. First, with his encouragement, the S.E.I.U.'s locals voted to endorse Howard Dean before the primaries. Then Stern gave more than $500,000 to the Republican Governors Association because, he said, some of the G.O.P.'s gubernatorial candidates had better positions for workers. As if that wasn't provocative enough a signal, Stern chose the moment of the Democratic convention in Boston to remark publicly, in an interview with The Washington Post, that it might be better for the party and the unions if John Kerry lost the election.
 Stern told me he had been partly inspired, oddly enough, by the example of Stephen Moore, the arch-conservative ideologue who, until recently, ran the Club for Growth. The club, which is anathema to both Democrats and moderate Republicans in Washington, raises millions from corporate anti-tax crusaders, then spends it not only against Democrats (Tom Daschle was a prime target) but also against Republican incumbents who aren't deemed sufficiently conservative. Moore has infuriated some Republican leaders, who say he divides the party, but the Club for Growth has helped push the party to the right, putting moderates on the defensive and making Republicans think twice before they cast a vote against a tax cut. 
 Stern invited Moore to speak at an S.E.I.U. meeting in Chicago a few years ago -- which is roughly the equivalent of Michael Moore being asked over to the National Rifle Association for lunch. Now Stern has begun to emulate the club's model; last year, the S.E.I.U. ran its own candidate, a union ally, against the Democratic House speaker in Washington State, because the speaker voted against a health-benefits package for home health care workers. The union's challenger lost -- but only by about 500 votes. ''I think we need to spend more time running candidates against Democrats,'' Stern says matter-of-factly.
 This approach holds some risk for a union boss. Most of Stern's members, after all, are lifelong Democrats. Will they be O.K. with a leader who's willing to entertain an overhaul of Social Security? Would they support Stern if he crossed the teachers' unions and came out for school vouchers? Stern seems convinced that his members want new solutions to these problems, not dogmatic answers, and he is betting that they're more loyal to him and the union than they are to the party. He seems poised to fill a space -- between the world of organized labor and the world of social and economic policy -- that hasn't been filled since Walter Reuther, the head of the United Auto Workers, advised the Kennedys and Lyndon Johnson on civil rights. ''There's been no analog to Andy in the last 30 or 40 years in America,'' says Simon Rosenberg, who heads the New Democrat Network and is running for Democratic Party chairman. ''There's been no labor leader who has emerged as a thought leader as well.''
 This spring, Stern plans to convene an eclectic group of Democrats to begin outlining a new economic agenda. ''We don't want it to be the same old people,'' Stern told me. ''We want people who might say, for example, 'Maybe privatization isn't such a terrible thing for people,' even if that's not what the Democratic Party thinks. Or, for example, 'Wal-Mart isn't the worst thing for the economy after all.' '' He laughed heartily at that one. ''We need to shock people out of their comfort zone and make them think.'' 

The Big Questions
Stern is not the first giant of the labor movement to talk about breaking up big labor or the Democratic Party. Reuther and the United Auto Workers stormed out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1968 and formed a new alliance with the Teamsters. A few labor leaders, furious at Harry Truman's treatment of workers, followed Henry Wallace out of the Democratic Party in 1948. Neither venture lasted long enough for anyone to remember much about it. Reuther died suddenly in 1970, and the new alliance barely outlived him; Wallace's Progressive Party finished fourth in the 1948 election, behind the Dixiecrats, and faded away. Arguably, the lesson of these and other rebellions is that the threat of building new workers' institutions usually proves more potent than the reality.
 The question that Stern's detractors ask is this: What is Andy Stern really after? Does he long to be the Reuther of his day, phoning presidents and holding forth to rooms full of reporters? 
 ''I don't like politics,'' Stern said more than once. ''After the last election, a lot of people called me and said everything from 'You should run for president' to 'You should be chairman of the D.N.C.' And neither of them had the slightest bit of reality or held any interest for me.'' That Stern can mention this casually -- that someone suggested he not merely phone a president, but run for president -- would indicate that he is as susceptible to self-glorification as the next guy, and maybe more so. But if what Stern really wanted was to run the world, he could surely spend his nights in more powerful company than that of the bartender at the Dancing Crab. When I asked what he envisioned himself doing in his 60's, Stern said, ''I hope I find someone to fall in love with and travel with and watch my son have grandkids.''
 His adversaries will say this is disingenuous, but, as so often happens in public life, they may be misunderstanding the human factor that compels Andy Stern. Everyone who knows him well will tell you that he is driven by an authentic passion for workers. And yet, at the same time, it doesn't take a psychology degree to see that he lives these days in a state of suspended agony. Stern gives the impression of having been shaken loose from conformity by the death of his daughter and the end of his marriage; nothing can hurt him more than he has already been hurt, which breeds in him the kind of abandon that can be dangerous to the status quo.
 This is how history often changes; it's the people who are running from something worse who are willing to hurl themselves into walls that others won't scale. The facts of our time are clear enough: a ruthless kind of globalized economy is upon us, and it is not going away. Many American industries are bound to be surpassed by leaner competitors, and the workers left behind by this tectonic shift have little power to influence the decisions of corporate barons whose interests know no national boundaries. More Americans now hold stock -- often in a 401k -- than are members of a union. And the institutions that have, for the last century, protected the ideal of the American worker -- organized labor and the Democratic Party -- are clinging mightily to structures and programs born in the era of coal and steel, perhaps out of fear that innovation would somehow discredit the things they have worked for all these years, or perhaps for the simple reason that no one knows what to do next.
 The visionary men who built big labor and the modern Democratic Party met the challenges specific to their moment. What Andy Stern is doing, in his own way, is provoking an argument more relevant to our moment. Can American workers ever be secure in a global market? Can a service economy sustain the nation's middle class? And are we brave enough to have the conversation? 


CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 30 about Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, misidentified the Democratic opponent of the union's candidate in the 2004 race for the Washington State Legislature. It was Representative Helen Sommers, not the House speaker, Representative Frank Chopp. The article also referred imprecisely to the size of the union. While it does have 1.8 million members, that number includes retirees. The union is not the largest in the United States; the National Education Association is.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stern with New York-area S.E.I.U. members. (Photograph by Neal Slavin)(set design by Megan Caponetto)
 Stern in 1978, as an idealistic field organizer with S.E.I.U. local 668. (Photograph by S.E.I.U. Archive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (66%); DIVESTITURES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Labor; Biographical Information; Organized Labor; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Labor

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%); AFL-CIO (59%) Service Employees International Union; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: Matt Bai; Andrew L Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



633 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for the American Empire

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
IN 1897, Britain celebrated Queen Victoria's diamond jubilee with grand ceremonies, lavish parties and parades that stretched for miles. It was all in tribute to a monarch who had reigned for 60 years, but it was also a celebration of Britain's unrivaled world power and success. Never before had an empire been as wealthy or as vast, spanning a quarter of the world's population and land mass. Yet within 50 years, the British Empire would vanish.
 No living memory survives to compare the speeches, parade and celebrations surrounding President Bush's inauguration with those of Queen Victoria's day. But the president's triumphal tone in his Inaugural Address was just one of a growing number of factors that evoke shades of empires past. 
 Today the United States is the unrivaled world leader in commerce and political and military force. As such, it faces many of the same questions that have concerned powerful nations for centuries. 
 Obviously, it is not destined to undergo precisely the same experience as, say, imperial Britain or the Soviet Union. But the history of great powers, particularly in the modern era, offers lessons worth considering in navigating the future. 
 Economists and historians have long recognized the importance of balance in a nation's spending priorities. Over time, those spending decisions help determine the trajectory of a nation's prosperity and power. A country can run into trouble, for instance, if it consumes too much in military spending and starves its economy of investment. If such a pattern continues, that country's economy won't be productive enough to support further military spending; ultimately, its military will weaken and its power will decline.
 In a 1987 book, ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers,'' Paul Kennedy, a history professor at Yale, formulated the concept this way: ''Without a rough balance between these competing demands of defense, consumption and investment, a Great Power is unlikely to preserve its status for long.'' 
 The British Empire was crushed by its unsustainable spending on World War I and World War II. For the Soviet Union, the cold war ultimately proved too much for its planned economy to support.
 Today, the United States faces its own difficult choices between the competing demands of security, consumption and investment. Abroad, the Iraq war lingers painfully while other potential conflicts loom in Iran and elsewhere. Domestically, privatization of Social Security could cost a cool $2 trillion or so. And in global commerce, the offshore threat to the labor force and competition for business profits are increasing. Up-and-coming companies based in Asia and elsewhere may one day rival even our most successful corporations. That prospect makes increased investment in research and development and in education a pressing need for the economy. Put all that against the backdrop of the country's already substantial debts, and it is clear that tough decisions need to be made. 
 Now for those practical lessons.
 For starters, nothing lasts forever. The eventual decline of the United States in relative terms is inevitable. But managing measured change is profoundly more desirable than suffering a precipitous fall. 
 Niall Ferguson, a history professor at Harvard who has written at length about the British Empire, put it this way: ''There's a very big difference between declining in the next five years and the next 500 years,'' he said. ''I shouldn't think Americans would like to live through what the British did.''
 Avoiding a rapid decline has something to do with picking one's battles. According to Professor Ferguson, wars among near-equals can be particularly destructive. Had Britain been able to use its influence to head off World War I, its ensuing decline would have been far less abrupt. But even if avoiding war with Germany might not have been possible, it appears that Britain seriously overestimated its chances of achieving a quick strategic victory. It's a good reminder that military actions are among the most risky a nation can undertake. So far, the wars against Iraq and Afghanistan, much weaker nations, are not in themselves likely to seriously injure the United States' position. But concluding the conflict in Iraq has not proved as easy as prewar estimates suggested, and opening a front in Iran or elsewhere could add significant burdens. 
 Managing a potential decline also requires knowing what the competition is up to. That is not to say a global power can't tread its own path, but if it goes too far out of step with emerging rivals, the balance of power could shift. 
 For instance, if the United States continues to be the greatest military spender in the world, while its rivals use their resources for economic growth, the current advantages held by the United States will shrink over time.
 Of course, when it comes to rivals, the future is notoriously difficult to predict. For years, many commentators said Japan was the primary commercial threat. And many people predicted that it would soon eclipse the United States. That hasn't happened. Today, China is probably the most popular candidate for the next great economic and military power. Many estimates suggest that China's economy could overtake the United States' within 40 years. 
 History shows that in the long run, economic policy tends to be just as important as military policy when it comes to a country's national security. In the short run, military spending can be supported by borrowing (Britain) or authoritarian measures (the Soviet Union), but eventually the guns belong to those whose economies can afford them.
 IN fact, a great power that ignores its economy can become its own worst enemy. According to Professor Kennedy, when great powers have been threatened with decline, they have tended to increase their spending on security; as a result, they starved their economies of needed investment. Such a short-term strategy ultimately cannot be sustained, and the fall can be abrupt.
 In the end, Britain's enormous borrowing to pay for two world wars was simply too much for its economy. At the close of World War II, British foreign debt stood at $40 billion, roughly the same size as its entire economy in 1948. ''The British lost their empire because they went bust,'' Professor Ferguson said. ''With a potential fiscal crisis looming in the United States, it should be a lesson to us all.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Jan. 30 with the Economic View column, comparing countries' shares of world military spending and gross domestic product, carried an incorrect label. It was the euro zone, not the European Union, that accounted for 12 percent of the military spending and 22 percent of world G.D.P. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Big Spender''The United States' share of world military spending is nearly one and a half times its share of the world's gross domestic product.RussiaShare of the world's G.D.P.: 1.2%Share of the world's military spending: 1.4%ChinaShare of the world's G.D.P.: 4.3%Share of the world's military spending: 3.4%BritainShare of the world's G.D.P.: 5%Share of the world's military spending: 4%JapanShare of the world's G.D.P.: 12%Share of the world's military spending: 5%European UnionShare of the world's G.D.P.: 22%Share of the world's military spending: 12%United StatesShare of the world's G.D.P.: 30%Share of the world's military spending: 44%(Sources by World Bank
 Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CONSUMPTION (89%); HISTORY (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); COLD WAR (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (60%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Great Britain; Russia

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



634 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE IRAQI ELECTION: PATROLS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: American Forces in Iraq Brace For Their 'Day of Reckoning'

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Col. Mark A. Milley picked his way through open sewage and ankle-deep mud that stuck to his boots like sand-colored glue as he led a manhunt through the Abu Ghraib slum, his target the assassin of an Iraqi security officer.
 The mission, punctuated by random small-arms fire from a housing block, ended with Colonel Milley getting neither his man nor annoyed.
 Meeting next with the police general for Baghdad west of the Tigris River, the colonel was told that the Iraqi police were threatening to boycott duty as election sentries on Sunday if they did not get more automatic weapons. Colonel Milley calmly said that he had been pressing the American military and the Iraqi Interior Ministry for the weapons. 
 In fact, across a day of patrols through one of Baghdad's most threatening sectors, Colonel Milley raised his voice only once, when an jobless father of three said he was too fearful to go to the polls. ''I traveled 7,000 miles from Fort Drum, N.Y., so you could vote!'' he said at a volume just below that of approaching thunder. ''So you better get out and vote. Show some courage.''
 Colonel Milley told the Lebanese-American interpreter for the 10th Mountain Division's Second Brigade, which he commands: ''Translate that. Translate every word. And tell the rest of these people, too.''
 For an American military that already has lost more than 1,000 lives to hostile action in Iraq, guaranteeing the election on Sunday offers the clearest, most precise mission since President Bush commanded the military to drive straight for Baghdad almost two years ago. Since then, American forces have executed a complex set of orders to battle home-grown insurgents and shadowy attackers, help rebuild Iraq's economy and train a new army, all incremental projects that will continue beyond the 12-month tour of any soldier here.
 ''That's why, for us, the day of reckoning is Jan. 30,'' said Maj. Michael Lawrence, executive officer of the First Battalion, 24th Infantry, based at Mosul. ''We think we're being successful. We also know we can't let one day define the entire effort. But this is our mission now.''
 Soldiers on point do not debate evidence on Saddam Hussein's program of unconventional weapons. They do not argue exit strategies or disengagement. And the question of whether enough troops are committed to Iraq is answered by looking to their immediate left and right. They pass the Skittles and PowerBars, load their weapons and just want to get through the patrol, election day, their tour in Iraq, and then go home.
 ''It's a funny thing: They don't want us here, and we don't want to be here,'' said First Sgt. Robert Wright of Company A, First Battalion, 24th Infantry. He is one of those small-unit leaders who is so sharp at guiding soldiers into urban combat that he has picked up the nickname Jedi.
 ''We know it's important to get these people back on their feet,'' he said. 
 Company A knows most directly about loss from this unconventional war, where even Iraqis who work among them may be their enemies, or an enemy may be wearing a uniform stolen from one who works among them. The commander, Capt. Bill Jacobsen, was one of the 22 killed when a bomb struck a mess tent in Forward Operating Base Marez last month in Mosul.
 Capt. Jeffrey Van Antwerp was thrust into command. ''We didn't lose a step,'' he said. ''We got up and moved out.'' This week he moved his men onto a square beneath a mosque in Mosul where mortars were launched five minutes earlier.
 Seven men were rounded up as possible witnesses to the mortar attack. Captain Van Antwerp quizzed each, in a tough way. But after shouting questions at the seventh -- he wore a T-shirt with the ''Friends'' television show logo -- Captain Van Antwerp relented. He let them go, but only after telling them to vote.
 ''We have to get the information about the insurgency,'' he said. ''But we don't want to create more sympathizers for the anti-Iraqi forces.''
 In the fight against those insurgents, by late Friday, Colonel Milley's efforts for the Baghdad police general had helped bring in 80 percent of the requested AK-47's.
 ''Victory is won one inch at a time,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICS (75%); POLICE FORCES (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TERRORISM (62%); TRENDS (62%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Thom Shanker; Michael (Maj) Lawrence

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); LEBANON (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



635 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: In a Casino Plan, Hopes for Rebirth

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
MOST horse racing supporters in Westchester view the latest challenges to a planned $185 million lottery casino at Yonkers Raceway as just more in a series of surmountable hurdles.
 A legal challenge to video lottery terminals proposed for several racetracks across the state as well as state budget issues are the most recent obstacles, but the case is expected back in court in March and legislators have said they may rewrite the law in question. Supporters throughout the county -- business people, bettors, investors and horsemen among them -- hope that the prize at the end is a return of the 106-year-old track, where Seabiscuit once ran, to its former glory. 
 Plans at Yonkers to upgrade the deteriorating clubhouse and the grandstand area and to install more than 5,500 video lottery terminals in a new casino could reverse a steady downward economic spiral at the track in recent years, supporters say. 
 ''It's a struggling industry,'' said Stephane Bouchard, a 38-year-old driver from Montreal, just before the start of races on Monday night. ''We need to do what we can to bring horse racing back, and we will, despite the setbacks we've experienced.''
 Supporters say video terminals, which are similar to slot machines and would be linked to the New York Lottery's computers, would draw new faces to the track and create more revenue. 
 Local business leaders also hope to benefit economically. William M. Mooney Jr., president of the Westchester County Association, which represents 650 organizations, estimated that the construction of the casino itself would generate several hundred jobs. 
 He predicted in a letter last summer to Nancy A. Palumbo, director of the lottery, that the payroll increase generated by Empire City at Yonkers Raceway, as the new site would be called, would reach $28 million a year. Empire City would provide about 900 permanent jobs after construction, said Mr. Mooney, whose organization has endorsed the track's expansion plans.
 But as Mr. Bouchard observed, efforts to revive the state's flagging horse racing industry have not moved ahead easily. 
 Most recently, a state review of a casino's potential environmental impact on Yonkers and a contract dispute between the track and the Standardbred Owners Association of New York, which represents harness owners and horsemen, held up expansion.
 The contract dispute, over earnings and track closures during future construction, was settled in November. And earlier this month, the environmental questions raised by the city about increased road traffic were put aside by the state.
 But the legal challenge to video display terminals at racetracks remains, and a budget proposal this month from Albany does not bode well for financing the expansion, track officials said this past week. 
 In July a state appellate court overturned a law passed in 2001 authorizing the gambling machines at eight tracks across the state, with 69 percent of the revenues to be passed on to schools and 31 percent to the racing industry. The court ruled that the law violated the State Constitution's mandate that all revenue generated by the lottery be used for education. Gov. George E. Pataki has appealed the ruling, and the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, is expected to hear the matter in March. 
 Meanwhile, members of the Legislature have promised to amend the 2001 law so it does not conflict with the Constitution, although that process could take months.
 Mr. Pataki's budget would circumvent the court's objection by using $108 million from the state's general fund for tracks with video lottery operations. But because the proposal would provide tracks with their cut of the casino money through a contract that could be amended in future budgets, lenders for the project have balked, said Robert Galterio, the track's general manager. 
 The governor is also calling for an expansion of video lottery to new locations, off-track sites in addition to racetracks; some of them would be in Manhattan and cut into profits at Yonkers. Four tracks upstate already have video lottery terminals.
 A harness track since the mid-1900's, Yonkers Raceway has seen a steady decline in attendance in recent years. In 1996, its president, Timothy Rooney, put the track up for sale shortly after the State Senate defeated a bill to legalize slot machines in some locations, including Yonkers. It was reportedly losing $5 million a year.
 Last year, live attendance -- those actually at the track rather than those betting from off-track locations -- was slightly under 116,000, said Frank Drucker, a track spokesman. By comparison, in 1996, attendance was about 317,100, which represented a sharp decrease from previous years. The betting handle was also down. 
 Still, Mr. Rooney decided not to sell, hoping that the state would come up with a workable proposal, Mr. Drucker said.
 Some opponents contend that a casino would only encourage those with gambling addictions. But Jim Foy, the president and chief executive of St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers, said: ''Just because we run alcohol and drug programs doesn't mean we think there shouldn't be bars. The same could be said about a racetrack.''
 ''The reality is that the economic health of our hospital depends on the economic health of the community it serves,'' Mr. Foy said, ''and the more people in the community who have jobs and health insurance, the better it will be for us.''
 Some city officials, though, question what economic benefit Yonkers would derive from video terminals. More people at the track would mean more demand for city services, said Liam J. McLaughlin, a Republican who is majority leader of the City Council. He said the state had no provisions to help with what he estimated as a $10 million increase in costs to city police, fire and emergency services linked to the track.
 Mr. Galterio, the racetrack's general manager, said Mr. McLaughlin's concerns were premature. ''How about we bake the pie first and then worry about how to split it up?'' he said. ''As far as I'm concerned, it's not even in the oven yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Attendance has fallen and facilities have deteriorated at Yonkers Raceway, but there is still the belief that adding video lottery terminals can turn things around. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (92%); HORSE RACING (91%); LOTTERIES (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Horse Racing; Yonkers Raceway; Lotteries; Computer and Video Games

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



636 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Fires Highlight Weaknesses New Yorkers Often Overlook

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Two major fires rudely reminded New Yorkers last week just how vulnerable they are to a nearly invisible threat: Inadequate government investment in maintenance and modernization and the surging population are overwhelming the city's aging public works and its lagging supply of housing. 
 One fire, initially thought to have been caused by a homeless person trying to keep warm, destroyed a Depression-era subway signal relay room in Lower Manhattan, disabling two lines and disrupting 580,000 daily riders for months. The other, in an overcrowded Bronx building that had been illegally carved into smaller apartments, killed two firefighters and left dozens of tenants homeless. 
 The fires suggest that despite cheerleading over declining crime and welfare rolls and a heralded economic rebound, some of the same problems that have historically bedeviled the city -- a fragile infrastructure and vulnerable residents -- may once again be out of sight and even out of mind, but they have not gone away. 
 The city's public works and the state-run mass transit system are in vastly better shape than they were a generation ago after years of neglect. Still, the subway system just celebrated its centennial, 7 percent of the city's water pipes are more than 100 years old -- one, in Greenwich Village, dates to 1844 -- and more than 400 bridges are rated in only fair condition. Repairs often cannot keep pace with normal wear and tear. 
 Panhandling and public encampments by homeless people that invited comparisons to Calcutta have all but vanished. But nearly half the city's households spend more than 30 percent of their income on rent, and about 15 percent are rated as overcrowded. The city itself estimated last year that hundreds of people live in the subways, and the shelter system is housing more than 8,800 individuals -- more than in any year since 1989 -- and more than 8,700 families, including 15,000 children. 
 In one sense, the city's real estate boom has become part of the problem. 
 ''As the city becomes more prosperous, places you could squat --in Tompkins Square Park or in abandoned buildings in the Bronx or Harlem -- aren't there any more,'' said Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia history professor and editor of ''The Encyclopedia of New York City.'' ''And it's not just the homeless. Some people have shelter, but in conditions going back to the turn of the century.''
 In the Bronx, two firefighters died when they jumped five stories to escape a fire in a residential building. The top floor had been converted into a warren of illegal apartments that evoked Jacob Riis's 19th-century photographs of immigrant ghettos, and the fire itself was tentatively attributed to a thin extension cord that snaked from one partitioned bedroom to another, overheated and ignited a mattress.
 Most illegally renovated apartments are believed to be in one-, two- and three-family homes that have been converted into boarding houses to accommodate the city's burgeoning population, particularly newly arrived immigrants. Housing construction, particularly in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, has surged. 
 According to a Department of City Planning report released last week, about half of the apartments rented since 1990 were occupied by a foreign-born head of household. The census estimated that the city's population surpassed a record eight million in 2000. The census counted 2.9 million foreign born, but Joseph J. Salvo, director of the department's population division, estimates that the immigrant population is at least 300,000 higher. 
 A telephone survey of low-income families last year by the Community Service Society, an advocacy and research group, found that almost half were on the verge of eviction and that most had less than $100 in the bank. David R. Jones, the society's president, said that the number of apartments renting for less than $500 a month was dwindling, and that prospective tenants faced a nine-year wait for public housing. He said the city administration was ''not ill-intentioned, but they're not looking at structural issues.'' 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has proposed spending $3 billion to build or renovate 65,000 apartments over five years. Last week, he proposed investing $60 billion on public works over the next decade, including $532 million in housing for the homeless. 
 But despite the economic rebound and real estate boom that enabled him to submit a balanced budget, overall, spending outpaces revenues. In addition, 15 cents of every tax dollar already goes to paying off past debt to build or repair 6,000 miles of water mains, 5,700 miles of streets and 1,000 school buildings, among other things. The mayor deferred $1.3 billion of the city's five-year, $13 billion school construction plan for at least a year, blaming Gov. George E. Pataki for not including the money in the state budget. 
 ''The city has, in recent years, concentrated on maintenance,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office. 
 In 1998, Alan G. Hevesi, then the city comptroller, warned that the city needed to spend at least $40 billion more on public works over 10 years, but added, ''While the need is enormous, the city's ability to meet all capital obligations is limited both by law and by insufficient funding capacity.''
 Mr. Hevesi, now the state comptroller, warned last year that according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's own estimates, stations and the signal system would not be in a ''state of good repair'' until 2024 and 2027, respectively. Despite fare increases and service cuts, Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the authority, said last month that without new taxes and fees from the state, the authority could afford either its $17 billion program to maintain the system or $16 billion to expand it, but not both. 
 Transit advocates said the governor's budget would cripple the expansion and even leave money for maintenance in doubt. 
 Last November, a report commissioned by the state warned of severe consequences -- ''the transportation infrastructure will deteriorate, the economy will falter, jobs will be lost and the quality of life in New York State will suffer dramatically'' -- unless tens of billions of dollars were invested in the next five years alone. 
 But when the system, whose cars date to 1963 and whose pumps were designed when the Panama Canal was being built, will be in good repair is arguable. 
 Last Sunday's subway fire disrupted service on the A and C lines. Transit officials had been warned for decades that the signal system was obsolete, but they spent most construction dollars elsewhere. The authority invested $288 million on its first computerized signaling system, scheduled to begin on the L line in July.
 Repairs to the A and C line could be finished faster if the lines were shut entirely. But that is not considered feasible -- just as it is not feasible to close one of the two existing tunnels for repairs or even inspections until a third water tunnel is completed. 
 In some cases, the delay has been in developing technology and finding suppliers. ''If somebody gave us $50 billion tomorrow, we could not any faster upgrade these signals,'' Mr. Kalikow said Thursday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); PANHANDLING (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CHILDREN (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); HISTORY (71%) Fires and Firefighters; Public Works; Housing; Homeless Persons; Subways; Transit Systems; Fires and Firefighters

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (58%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



637 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: The State of Suffolk

 BODY:
Steve Levy's second State of the County address, given last week on a frigid night in snowy Wyandanch, was hard not to like. It did what speeches of its type are supposed to do, which is to float new ideas and be vibrant and get your attention. They are like hot-air balloons that way: there isn't much inside them, but they can lift your heart with a buoyant sense of possibility. 
 Here the metaphor falls away, however, because the speech was not a gaseous blob. It seemed to us, rather, to be a sensible ordering of priorities presented with Mr. Levy's trademark emphasis on pragmatism and common sense. If the speech was a true reflection of Mr. Levy's vision for Suffolk County -- and not just a collection of applause lines -- we'll take it. 
 The most compelling part of the speech had to do with Mr. Levy's continued emphasis on the county's need for affordable housing -- or rather ''work force housing,'' a term considered less likely to stir the resentful passions of the pull-up-the-ladder crowd. 
 Specifically, Mr. Levy, whose creation of a Workforce Housing Commission was emblematic of his administration's aggressive approach to solving the problem, suggested a ''work force housing community'' of more than 1,000 units on now-vacant county-owned land in Yaphank. The units would be sold or leased to companies that would move to or expand in Suffolk, and perhaps also include a day-care center and rely on clean-energy sources. 
 It is a bold plan to link economic development to a pressing social problem, and one that must not be allowed to languish in a file somewhere under the heading Too Ambitious to Pursue.
 Mr. Levy's other great idea involved nonpartisan redrawing of legislative district lines. This is something we have long championed for other governmental bodies. Mr. Levy -- like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is fighting the good fight in California now -- is right to say that the electoral game is rigged, and that the best way to fix it is to have nonpartisan experts, like retired judges and good-government groups, redraw districts. Although this idea may go nowhere in the Suffolk Legislature, we urge him to pursue it aggressively. 
 Practicality is Mr. Levy's strength. He is, for instance, devoted to the idea of ''smart government,'' which means doing more with less by seeking efficiencies and technological advantages and applying nonpartisan rigor to government management and finances. His ideas on that front -- like consolidating purchasing with Nassau County or being more aggressive about collecting fees at county facilities -- reside firmly in the no-brainer category, and will get no argument from us.
 Nor will these proposals, sprinkled like jellybeans throughout Mr. Levy's speech:
 Controlling mosquitoes, but not through heavy reliance on pesticides or on wetlands-scarring drainage ditches. (Mr. Levy's resounding cry ''There will be no machine ditching!'' was the night's unlikeliest applause line.)
 Creating non-emergency 311 hot line.
 Redrawing bus routes, so that buses take people where they want to go.
 Growing more scallops and clams, by reseeding shellfish beds.
 Reducing red tape, through the Red Tape Reduction program.
 We would also like to applaud Mr. Levy's decision to give his speech outside of Hauppauge, where the government offices are. Last year, breaking with tradition, he gave the speech in Southampton, on the East End, saying he wanted to reach out to constituents who might otherwise feel excluded from government. This time he spoke at Wyandanch Memorial High School. The warm reception he received there seemed as much in appreciation for the generosity of his gesture as for the ideas in his speech. 




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REDISTRICTING (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%); POLITICS (65%); ELECTION FRAUD (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Politics and Government; Editorials; Housing

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Steve (County Exec) Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



638 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: A Question of Numbers

 BODY:
 The federal government has made three interrelated commitments to the financial support of the aging baby boomers in the form of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. 
(The programs are interrelated because, for example, a Medicare drug payment makes a Social Security check more valuable by freeing up money a senior would otherwise spend on drugs.)
 By pretending that Social Security is some kind of program whose solvency can be judged separately, Lowenstein willingly succumbs to the standard accounting fictions to score points against the Bush administration's own ill-conceived reforms.
 Social Security is probably affordable? Well, fine, but that's like saying the credit-card bill can be handled while ignoring the car payments and the mortgage!

Gene Epstein
Economics Editor
Barron's
New York


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); MEDICAID (73%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Medicaid

ORGANIZATION: Barron's

PERSON: Gene Epstein; Roger Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



639 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Buzzwords; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Synergy, Begone, Crisis

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

 BODY:
Suddenly, the word ''bankrupt'' is in vogue among some in Washington, while ''crisis'' is not. Here, a guide to words of the moment.

CLANDESTINE AND COVERT -- Exactly what secrets does Congress need to know?
 That is the question behind a new dispute in Washington about expanded intelligence operations by the Pentagon, and it is playing out in a tussle about what is clandestine and what is covert. 
 To most ears, the words may mean roughly the same thing, but as interpreted in Washington, the differences are vast. Under the National Act of 1947, a covert action is strictly defined, as an action intended to influence political, economic or military conditions abroad, and which an American role is not to be apparent. Under the law, covert actions require presidential approval and Congressional notification. These are the conditions that the Central Intelligence Agency has dutifully satisfied time and time again, in its decades-old role as the government's lead practitioner of the black arts. 
 Now the Pentagon, in waging its own shadow war on terrorism, has begun taking on more of the missions traditionally performed by the C.I.A., including operations by the Defense Intelligence Agency. But Defense Department officials insist that these missions are clandestine, not covert, and thus do not require a sign-off from the White House or a briefing to Congress.
 Senior members of Congress are vowing to take a closer look. DOUGLAS JEHL


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (69%); TERRORISM (52%) United States Politics and Government; English Language

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: Douglas Jehl

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



640 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: MINIMUM WAGE ADVANCES

BYLINE: By John Holl

 BODY:
The State Senate Labor Committee has approved a bill that would raise the state's minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.15 an hour by Oct. 2006. 
The state's hourly wage would first rise to $6.15 an hour in October, before climbing another dollar a year later. The full State Senate will now consider the bill, which would be the state's first minimum-wage increase since 1999. There are about 235,000 workers in New Jersey who currently earn less than $7.15 an hour, and the wage increase could affect nearly 11,000 hourly workers who rely on minimum wage as their sole source of income, according to the state's Department of Labor. John Holl

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation; Minimum Wage

PERSON: John Holl

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



641 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Rising River

 BODY:
The Saw Mill River had a pretty bad 20th century, and the one before that wasn't so great, either. For long stretches it was an industrial septic system, polluted, diverted, paved over and forgotten. It rises near Chappaqua and trickles largely unseen under downtown Yonkers, then spills abashedly into the Hudson. The only thing keeping it from utter obscurity is its association with a parkway -- a memorial of dubious effectiveness, as Major Deegan might put it. 
 The many indignities suffered by the Saw Mill include being dissed by an untalented, though earnest, poet in 1891:
 'Tis now, at Yonkers's spreading feet,
 A flow with odorous sins replete;
 Its nitid bosom has become
 A snake-like yellow scrawl of scum.
 Ouch! That must have hurt. (We looked up nitid. It means shining.)
 We know the Saw Mill has had nothing to be nitid about for generations. But a couple of developments have come along that may get it back in the game, joining other once-manhandled rivers in doing what rivers are supposed to do, which is to nurture wildlife and wetlands, channel floodwaters and look pretty -- to sparkle and bubble and lift the hearts of humans lucky enough to live and work beside them.
 The good news is the result of two accomplishments, one hard-nosed, the other dreamy.
 Last week, the Westchester district attorney, Jeanine Pirro, announced a deal through which a local industrial polluter, American Sugar Refining, would pay $100,000 to the environmental watchdog Riverkeeper for spilling hydrochloric acid into the Hudson. The sum comes on top of a $20,000 fine the company paid after pleading guilty to criminal charges stemming from the 2003 spill. It is a resounding affirmation of a judicial principle we love: Make the polluter pay.
 Riverkeeper plans to distribute the money to a local nonprofit, Groundwork Yonkers, for its Saw Mill River program. That initiative, the Saw Mill River Coalition, comprises more than 50 environmentalists, public officials, regular citizens and others trying to protect the river on multiple fronts. The bargain with American Sugar is a windfall for the coalition, which is working closely with Westchester County and the United States Army Corps of Engineers on a watershed management plan for the Saw Mill. It is a creative way to right an environmental wrong, and we applaud Ms. Pirro for it.
 The second good moment came when Gov. George E. Pataki used his State of the State address to endorse a plan to uncover stretches of the Saw Mill River in Yonkers -- literally to lift the lid on the river, dismantling culverts and exposing its banks to daylight. The idea, a vision of the group Scenic Hudson, could be an aesthetic and economic windfall for downtown Yonkers, which is marred by large paved stretches as barren and dreary as its political culture.
 Scenic Hudson has worked for years to develop parks and to fight sky-clogging high-rises in Yonkers and other communities up and down the river and its tributaries. A revitalized Yonkers downtown, with gracious walkways beside a restored Saw Mill River, would be a stunning addition to this record of achievement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); RIVERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); SUGAR MFG (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); WILDLIFE (74%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WATER QUALITY (71%); WETLANDS (71%); ARMIES (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); CRIMINAL FINES (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Water Pollution; Editorials; Fines (Penalties); Hydrochloric Acid; Water Pollution

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%) American Sugar Refining Co; Saw Mill River Coalition; Army Corps of Engineers

PERSON: Jeanine F (Dist Atty) Pirro; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Hudson River; Saw Mill River; Westchester County (NY); Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



642 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: When Gray Heads Roll, Is Age Bias at Work?

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
SEVERAL weeks after being laid off last spring by Best Buy, the consumer electronics retailer, Lynette M. Steuck, a software project manager, showed up for a resume-polishing ''outplacement session'' of the sort commonly offered to employees recently shoved out the door. 
 As Ms. Steuck, 51, a divorced mother, surveyed the sparely furnished conference room, she said she was struck by something. ''It was shocking,'' she recalled recently. ''There were probably 25 to 30 people in the session. And there were only three or four people under the age of 40.''
 By the end of December, when Ms. Steuck and 45 other laid-off Best Buy workers sued the company in federal court, accusing it of age discrimination, she and her lawyer had concluded that almost two-thirds of recently terminated employees -- 82 out of 126 -- were at least 40 years old. The plaintiffs contend that this was out of proportion with the ages of Best Buy's work force over all, citing a newspaper interview in which the woman who leads the company's work-life programs said the average age of its 5,000 employees was 29. 
 The risk of being laid off from Best Buy rose with age, said Stephen J. Snyder, the lawyer representing the former employees. ''The people in their 30's were at greater risk of termination than those in their 20's, the 40's more than the 30's, the 50's more than the 40's,'' said Mr. Snyder, a partner at Gray, Plant, Mooty, Mooty & Bennett, a Minneapolis law firm. ''And the people in their 60's and up were at the greatest risk of all.''
 Best Buy denies that age was a factor in the layoffs. ''We really believe the claims are wholly without merit,'' said Elliot S. Kaplan, a partner at the law firm of Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi in Minneapolis and the lead attorney for Best Buy. He declined to address specific accusations made by plaintiffs.
 Age bias in employment is becoming a larger issue as the American work force grows older and companies come under greater pressure to be more efficient. In recent months, age-discrimination accusations have also been filed against companies like Sprint and 3M.
 Michael C. Harper, a professor of law at the Boston University School of Law, said that the ''smoking guns'' needed to prove deliberate age discrimination are generally hard to find. Rarely do plaintiffs find corporate memos mandating that gray heads roll, so their lawyers try to make their cases with statistics and anecdotal evidence. Federal courts are split on whether deliberate bias must be proved in order for a plaintiff to win. In some of them, and in some state courts, plaintiffs are required to show only that a seemingly neutral corporate policy on hiring, training or termination ends up hurting older workers more than others. These are called arguments based on disparate impact.
 Within days or weeks, the United States Supreme Court may make the federal definition clearer. The court is expected to rule in Smith v. Jackson, a case in which older police officers in Jackson, Miss., contend that a new wage policy left them with smaller pay raises than those for younger colleagues. Should the court rule against the older officers, others who say they are bias victims ''will have to prove employers discriminated on purpose,'' said Thomas C. Goldstein, the lawyer who argued the police officers' case before the court.
 People who accuse employers of age discrimination win their lawsuits less than one-third of the time, according to Howard C. Eglit, a law professor at the Chicago-Kent School of Law of the Illinois Institute of Technology and the author of several books on age bias.
 But even if the Supreme Court tightens the burden of proof for plaintiffs, lawsuits against employers are likely to proliferate, Professor Eglit said, partly because the work force is aging. By 2010, more than half of all workers will be over 40, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has projected. Another reason, he said, is that there is often an economic incentive for companies to shed older workers. Those workers tend to earn more and have higher health costs, and their family ties can make them less flexible about work hours, business travel and relocations. Dennis E. Egan, a partner at the Popham Law Firm in Kansas City, Mo., said, ''Left unchecked, we know that most corporations will choose the younger of two applicants to hire, the younger to promote and the younger to keep in a reduction of force.'' Mr. Egan is the lead attorney for the plaintiffs suing Sprint; the company has denied discriminating against its employees and is fighting the suit in court.
 The economic incentive for dismissing a worker with a high salary and expensive health care can help a company defend itself against bias, lawyers and others said. ''It's not the blatant: 'Jones, you're too old. We're firing you,''' said Tom Osborne, a senior attorney at AARP and a co-counsel for plaintiffs in the Sprint case. Instead, he said, companies might adopt new employee-valuation systems that happen to reverse the career-long high performance rankings of older employees.
 But the lawyers who are bringing the cases against Sprint, Best Buy and 3M say they have designed their cases to survive even if the Supreme Court disallows cases based chiefly on disparate impact. The 3M case, for example, was filed in a state court in Minnesota, which has age-bias laws that are stricter than federal law. And lawyers for former workers who have sued Best Buy and Sprint said they were confident they could prove that the dismissals were a result of intentional bias -- defined by Mr. Snyder as ''holding older employees to a higher standard than younger employees and therefore terminating them at a higher rate.'' 
 One Best Buy plaintiff, a database designer named Hugh F. Juergens, said he was let go by Best Buy in October 2003 even though the company had given him a rating of 4.1 out of 5 in a 2002 performance review. Best Buy defines a grade of 4 as ''exceeds expectations.'' In that review, his most recent before termination, Mr. Juergens's manager wrote: ''Hugh is an exemplary associate who goes beyond what is expected of his role.'' Yet when he asked why he was fired, the company replied in a letter: ''Your employment was terminated due to your failure to meet the expectations of your position.''
 Arbitrary management decisions are also a central assertion in the lawsuit against 3M. ''We are alleging that older people are more likely to be put into the lower-ranking groups'' when evaluated by managers, said Susan M. Coler of Sprenger & Lang, a law firm in Minneapolis, who represents the 3M plaintiffs. The suit also contends that younger workers were more likely than their older colleagues to receive training that led to promotions and raises. 
 A 3M spokesman said, ''We believe the claims are without merit,'' but he declined to discuss specific accusations in the suit.
 IN the Sprint case, 2,300 people who were laid off from late 2001 to early 2003 contend that a subjective and arbitrary new ranking system was used to weed out older workers. Known as ''forced ranking,'' the system requires individual departments to apply bell-curve ratings in which 30 percent of workers must be classified as subpar. 
 ''We can show statistically that when it came to rankings, those over 40 did worse than those under 40,'' said Mr. Egan, the lead attorney for the Sprint plaintiffs.
 One of the people let go, Sharon L. Louk, who was fired days shy of her 53rd birthday, contended in an affidavit that her boss said at one point, ''We need to get young people.'' Another former Sprint employee, Bonnie L. Hoopes, 49, said that several months before she was let go, she received an e-mail message from her new supervisor describing the ideal worker as having, among other qualities, ''lots of runway ahead of them.''
 A company spokeswoman, Debra D. Peterson, said, ''Sprint does not engage in age discrimination.'' The company's forced-ranking system, she added, was only ''one of many factors'' in evaluating employees.
 While employers have every right to rate workers on their performance and rank them against their peers, lawyers and law professors said, they are generally forbidden to prejudge individuals based on their sex, race or age. ''The law requires that an individual be treated on their own personal merits, not on some profile of the group they belong to,'' said Mr. Snyder, the lawyer for the Best Buy plaintiffs.
 Mr. Harper, the Boston University law professor, said the Supreme Court could decide to allow disparate-impact cases but grant an important concession to employers: the right to cite ''reasonable'' factors like cost-cutting to justify practices that might penalize older workers.
 Such a ruling would raise the burden of proof for plaintiffs who contend that they are victims of age bias. But it could also precipitate political fallout. ''I think there'd be some kind of backlash,'' said Mr. Osborne, the AARP lawyer, suggesting that Congress might then move to amend the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, to explicitly allow lawsuits contending disparate impact. ''AARP would lobby for this type of amendment,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lynette Steuck and Hugh Juergens are plaintiffs in an age-bias lawsuit filed against Best Buy, which is based near Minneapolis. (Photo by Craig Lassig for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Labor; Suits and Litigation; Discrimination; Age, Chronological; Electronics; Telephones and Telecommunications; Labor

COMPANY: GRAY PLANT MOOTY PA (83%); ROBINS KAPLAN MILLER & CIRESI LLP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Best Buy Co; Sprint Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Howard (Prof) Eglit; Norm Alster

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



643 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2603 words

HEADLINE: The Sisterhood Judging WorldCom

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
BOTH are former federal prosecutors, formidable in their courtrooms. They are also fast friends, contemporaries who rose through the legal ranks in New York City during the gritty 1970's and the more prosperous 1980's. 
 And, for the next few months, Denise L. Cote, 58, and Barbara S. Jones, 57, United States District Court judges in Manhattan, will be front and center in the trials of WorldCom's former chief executive, Bernard J. Ebbers, and the investment banks and auditors that advised the company as it spiraled into bankruptcy.
 Although Judge Cote and Judge Jones have presided over major trials since President Bill Clinton appointed each of them to the bench nearly a decade ago, their oversight of the WorldCom cases is drawing the national spotlight. WorldCom, after all, remains the largest company to have filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States. Its failure in 2002, prosecutors say, was a result of an $11 billion accounting fraud that cost thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions in losses for investors. 
 Mr. Ebbers's criminal trial has just begun in Judge Jones's courtroom, and the civil case brought by investors, overseen by Judge Cote, is scheduled to start Feb. 28. But both judges have already made enough pretrial rulings to reveal quite a bit about how they approach their work and manage their courtrooms. Their handling of these cases may also prove to be a model for future trials involving accusations of corporate fraud.
 Neither judge agreed to be interviewed for this article. But interviews with former colleagues, friends and lawyers who have appeared before them paint a picture of two proficient and demanding people who dispatch justice in a quick, no-nonsense way. 
 Lawyers involved in the WorldCom securities litigation, for example, say Judge Cote has been a tough taskmaster since she was assigned the case in 2002. An exceedingly complex matter in which 42 class actions brought by investors were consolidated, it is one of the largest securities cases in history. Defendants include former directors and officers of WorldCom; Arthur Andersen, its auditor; and more than a dozen investment banks -- including J.P. Morgan Chase, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank -- that sold WorldCom securities to investors.
 A measure of Judge Cote's efficiency was her order that settlement negotiations begin less than a month after the New York State Common Retirement Fund, the lead plaintiff, filed the class-action complaint. She accelerated the discovery process, in which both sides interview witnesses and request documents, completing it at least nine months ahead of schedule. At the request of the New York fund's lead counsel, Judge Cote also limited depositions to 60 days for each side, well below the hundreds requested by the lawyers representing the defendants and far fewer than the 1,200 depositions allowed in the Enron litigation.
 Judge Jones has been equally expeditious in the early days of Mr. Ebbers's trial, lawyers said. Despite the intense media scrutiny, they said, she has kept a firm schedule and treated both sides evenly. In pretrial hearings, she chastised prosecutors for failing to demonstrate why certain evidence should be allowed in the proceedings. But she has also swatted down requests from Mr. Ebbers's defense lawyers, who were seeking immunity for friendly witnesses.
 For all their proficiency, the two judges are something of an anomaly in New York's fractious legal world, people who know both women say. Their superb credentials were earned by making friends, not enemies, these people say.
 WHEN Ms. Jones was sworn in as a federal judge in 1995, the Lower Manhattan courtroom where the ceremony took place was filled to capacity. Friends and colleagues unable to find seats spilled into the anteroom, according to someone who was there. Judge Jones's Christmas parties are also legendary. Every year, she caters a party in the courthouse, complete with a disc jockey. But true to her image as a bridge builder, she makes sure that the courthouse staff members, including cleaners and security guards, are invited. 
 Michael A. Rogoff, a partner at Kaye Scholer, a law firm in New York, who has worked with Judge Cote both in private practice and at the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, said: ''Working with her in private practice, she is one of the best-prepared lawyers I have ever seen. At the same time, she always took an interest in the people who worked for her, their families, their personal lives. That's something you don't see in a lot of attorneys, especially those under a lot of pressure and with a lot going on.''
 Hard work, efficiency and an interest in the personal sides of their colleagues are not the only traits the two judges share. Neither is a New York native, and each has had a somewhat unusual career path. 
 Judge Cote, known as Dee, was born in St. Cloud, Minn., in 1946, and graduated from St. Mary's College in Notre Dame, Ind., in 1968. She went to New York to study history at Columbia University, where she earned a master's degree in 1969. She taught black history, American history and world history at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a school in Manhattan, but started a career change by applying to Columbia Law School. She graduated in 1975 and began clerking for Judge Jack B. Weinstein of United States District Court in Brooklyn.
 JUDGE JONES, who was born in Inglewood, Calif., spent her formative years in Southern California, Brooklyn and Cairo, where her father worked for T.W.A. She earned a bachelor's degree in political science in 1968 at Mount St. Mary's College in Los Angeles. Ms. Jones's first job out of college was as a hostess at a Howard Johnson's restaurant in the Sepulveda area of Los Angeles, according to her biography in the Judicial Staff Directory. 
 She moved to Boston and began working as a school administrator; she enrolled in graduate courses in social psychology at Boston University. She took a detour, though, and applied to Temple University's law school, from which she graduated in 1973.
 After getting her degree, she bucked the antigovernment sentiment of the times by joining the Justice Department's organized crime and racketeering group in New York. In that male-dominated world, Ms. Jones stood out for her tact, teamwork and diplomatic skills, people who know her said.
 ''When she was an assistant working on the organized crime cases she would make herself available to do whatever was necessary,'' said John Moscow, a partner at Rosner Moscow & Napierala and a former assistant district attorney. ''If the agents needed her to be in Kansas City at 5:30 in the morning she'd be there.''
 In 1977, both Ms. Cote and Ms. Jones were assistant United States attorneys for the Southern District of New York, an office later headed by Rudolph W. Guiliani, the future mayor of New York City. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are considered the elite among government lawyers, and Ms. Cote and Ms. Jones were among a handful of women in the group.
 They remained federal prosecutors for much of the 1980's, an exhilarating time in the office, according to people who were there. Emboldened by the prosecutorial power in the new Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, prosecutors stepped up efforts to take down Mafia crime families. Ms. Jones was part of the team that tried the first RICO cases against a Mafia family. 
 ''She helped invent the whole concept of using the relatively new RICO statutes to bring these family cases to court,'' said John F. Savarese, a partner at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in New York. Ms. Jones was Mr. Savarese's boss in the mid-1980's and helped him shape his cases against Mafia families.
 ''She had great instincts about investigative techniques,'' he said. ''She was able to think about how to take what is sitting silently on a statute book and make it into an investigation.''
 In the early 1980's, Ms. Jones and Louis J. Freeh, the future F.B.I. director, teamed up on a case that resulted in the conviction of four members of the Bonanno crime family portrayed in the movie ''Donnie Brasco,'' which starred Al Pacino as a wise-guy dupe and Johnny Depp as an F.B.I. mole. The movie ends before the case goes to court, so a Hollywood stand-in for her never appeared.
 She was tough off-hours, too. She became close friends with several other women in the United States attorney's office, including some who are now in private practice. To underscore their competitiveness, Ms. Jones and two friends from her days at the United States attorney's office -- Sara Moss, now general counsel at Estee Lauder, and Mary Jo White, now a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton in New York -- called themselves ''the three Sids,'' after Sid Vicious, the bass player of the Sex Pistols, the punk rock group. The three were also fierce tennis rivals. Still close, they sometimes take vacations together.
 Ms. Cote left the Southern District in 1985, joining Kaye Scholer in New York. She did defense work in white-collar cases there but returned to the United States attorney's office in Lower Manhattan in 1991.
 Otto G. Obermaier, counsel to Weil, Gotshal & Manges, was the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1989 to 1993. He hired Ms. Cote to be chief of the criminal division, the first woman in that job. She managed about 140 lawyers.
 ''She was really an iron magnolia; she could be quite forceful,'' Mr. Obermaier said. ''I always had great confidence in her abilities. She didn't bring every detail to me. I felt comfortable in delegating to her enormous amount of responsibility.'' Ms. Cote remained in the criminal division until 1994, when she was nominated to the United States District Court. 
 Ms. Jones left the United States attorney's office in 1987, when Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, recruited her to be his first assistant district attorney. Moving from the federal prosecutor's office to the state side is unusual, lawyers say, because the two offices often compete on cases. 
 ''Barbara Jones is an extremely competent lawyer and by all reports a very good judge,'' Mr. Morgenthau said. ''Her role wasn't to try cases,'' he said of the years she worked for him. ''She would make legal decisions on difficult cases. Do you prosecute, whom do you prosecute, a lot of coordinating with the F.B.I., the police department, customs. She was extremely valuable.''
 Ms. Jones was still working for Mr. Morgenthau in 1995, when President Clinton nominated her to her current job. Mr. Clinton was eager to show that he was not soft on crime, and Ms. Jones's credentials helped. But lawyers who have argued before her say she is not a zealot for convictions. Former colleagues praise her ability to build bridges to rival agencies, using people skills to overcome turf battles.
 HER role as peacemaker has extended to her time on the bench, despite concerns that her prosecutorial background would cause her to side too often with the government. She has handed down a variety of rulings, interpreting the First Amendment, patent law and antitrust issues. Lawyers for both sides in the cases almost always say that she is fair and rarely ideological. 
 ''She is someone who has a very deep commitment to justice and not just convicting people,'' said R.Scott Greathead, a human rights lawyer at Wiggin & Dana in New York, who invited Judge Jones to visit Northern Ireland with the New York City Bar Association to teach jurists there about the American legal system. ''She is balanced, mature and has a very substantial commitment to the rule of law.''
 From the bench, Judge Cote has overseen trials involving immigrant smuggling and police brutality. But she has also had her share of Wall Street cases. She was the judge in the class-action sex discrimination lawsuit brought against Morgan Stanley in 1998. It was settled last July with the firm agreeing to pay $54 million.
 Judge Cote also presided over the criminal case against John M. Youngdahl, a former economist at Goldman Sachs who traded on insider information relating to the government's decision in 2001 to stop sales of 30-year bonds. Mr. Youngdahl pleaded guilty. 
 On two occasions, Judge Cote's opinions have greatly expanded the responsibility of entire industries. In 1998, she oversaw a case involving an apparel sweatshop in New York, ruling that a clothing maker is liable for a contractor's failure to pay overtime to its employees. As a result, manufacturers have been under pressure to police their subcontractors more closely.
 Catherine K. Ruckelshaus, litigation director at the National Employment Law Project in New York, represented the workers in the case. She said that Judge Cote's legal theory has been applied in subsequent cases and noted that her ruling in the sweatshop case was affirmed last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
 ''It was an exciting decision when it came down because she was the first judge to rule under minimum-wage and overtime rules that garment manufacturers can be found responsible for unpaid wages in their sweatshops,'' Ms. Ruckelshaus said. ''She had built on some previous cases that were found in agriculture where there was a grower and labor contractors that brought workers in, a similar structure to the garment industry's.''
 More recently, an opinion published on Dec. 15 by Judge Cote in the WorldCom litigation heightens the level of due diligence that investment banks are required to perform on companies whose securities they are planning to sell to the public. The opinion said, for example, that it was no longer enough for banks to rely on so-called comfort letters from companies' accounting firms stating that unaudited financial statements, such as quarterly results, were accurate.
 ''It seems to me the court has really stretched out the extent of the investigation that is required with respect to interim financial statements that have been incorporated by reference into a registration statement,'' said Alan R. Bromberg, professor of law at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. ''The court makes it pretty clear that comfort letters are worthless, that you can rely only on audited financial statements.''
 Judge Cote's opinion, Professor Bromberg added, means that investment banks will have to spend more time and money conducting due diligence on a company's financial position before they offer its securities to the public.
 BY contrast, Judge Jones's rulings fit no easy pattern. In 1997, she sentenced Autumn Jackson to 26 months in jail for trying to extort money from the comedian Bill Cosby. Judge Jones also heard a case involving Zacarias Moussaoui, the only person charged in an American court in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks. (Mr. Moussaoui did not stand when she entered the court.) His case is pending.
 But she has also taken her licks. Her ruling in a patent case involving point-of-sale machines was overturned in the appellate court, which rebutted her logic in the case.
 Nonetheless, David Fink, who represented the plaintiffs in the patent case, views Judge Jones favorably, saying that her trials are orderly and that her instructions are generally clear and fair. 
 With jurors, she has gone further. She has been direct with them, but also comforting. When the jury entered the courtroom to hear opening arguments in the Ebbers case on Tuesday, several members entered the jury box out of order, forcing several to swap seats clumsily.
 ''Don't worry, it will get easier,'' she said, to gentle laughter from the tense audience.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Denise L. Cote, left, and Barbara S. Jones, both Federal District Court judges, are overseeing cases related to WorldCom, the largest company in the nation to have filed for bankruptcy protection. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
(Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive officer of WorldCom, leaving the United States District Court in Manhattan earlier this month. Judge Barbara S. Jones is presiding over the criminal trial of Mr. Ebbers. (Photo by David Karp/Bloomberg News)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ETHICS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JUDGES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PRETRIAL DISCOVERY (68%) Bankruptcies; Ethics

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Worldcom Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%) Denise L (Judge) Cote; Barbara S (Judge) Jones; Gretchen Morgenson; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



644 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Georgetown, Conn.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: A Mill Town Writes Its Next Chapter

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
MICHAEL HEIBECK is quintessential old Georgetown. His grandfather put in more than 40 years at the sprawling Gilbert & Bennett Manufacturing Company, which gave rise to this mill village. His father served as chief of Georgetown's volunteer fire department. Now, Mr. Heibeck himself supervises the department's 35 volunteers. 
 Mr. Heibeck can trace his local roots back to 1928, but these days, he's more focused on Georgetown's future. A $300 million redevelopment of the 55-acre mill complex promises to revive an area orphaned by the 1989 shutdown of Gilbert & Bennett, the once-dominant manufacturer of wire cloth, mesh and netting. 
 Straddling the Redding-Wilton line, and nipping into Ridgefield and Weston at its corners, Georgetown is widely considered the poor relative of these four affluent towns. Without a functioning factory, Georgetown was merely a ZIP code. Worse, the polluted mill site, which is entirely in Redding, near the Wilton border, gradually deteriorated into ''a big eyesore,'' Mr. Heibeck said. 
 Like many locals, then, Mr. Heibeck is thrilled about the development plan, which calls for a self-contained, pedestrian-friendly village complete with housing, shopping, restaurants, theater and a train stop. If all goes as planned, Georgetown may finally regain its soul. 
 ''I can't wait for it to come,'' Mr. Heibeck said. ''It'll get rid of the big buildings with the glass all falling out of them. When it's all said and done, it's going to be a beautiful place.'' 
 Few people have used the word ''beautiful'' to describe the core of Georgetown in recent years. ''The legacy of Georgetown up until 2004 was: you don't want to live there,'' said Deb Haws, a sales agent for Coldwell Banker-Shaker Real Estate, in Wilton. ''The wire factory project has changed that perception.'' 
 Indeed, the Olive Market, a food shop and restaurant specializing in fine wines and aged cheese, recently joined the Georgetown Saloon, a popular Western-style watering hole known for its summer pig roasts, on Main Street. 
 At Redding Woods, a condominium complex perched high on a ridge overlooking the factory, four units sold last year at prices ranging from $610,000 to $730,000, a 30 percent increase over 2001 sale prices when the complex opened, Ms. Haws said. 
 Values will continue to climb, according to an economic impact assessment by the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis, at the University of Connecticut. By the time the factory project is completed, Redding alone will realize an overall increase in property values totaling about $30 million, researchers concluded. 
 Most of Georgetown's housing is concentrated in Redding and Wilton. Because Georgetown is a hamlet rather than an official town, however, its precise boundaries are a matter of opinion. The Georgetown fire district covers an eight-square-mile area around the mill, but the United States Census, as well as local real estate agents, limit Georgetown's reach to the densely developed area traversed by Routes 7 and 107 and closer to the mill site. Residents vote, pay taxes and attend public schools in the town in which their neighborhood is located. All four school districts consistently show high levels of proficiency on the Connecticut Mastery Tests, and score well above state averages.
 Much of the housing stock in the mill area is an unremarkable mishmash of simple, prewar colonials and postwar Capes and ranches. A five-room colonial built in 1900 was recently listed for $399,000 in the Weston corner of Georgetown. Grander homes built for factory managers and directors in the late 19th century are on display in Georgetown's historic center, at the intersections of Church and West Church Streets. Homes in this area have recently sold in the $500,000 range, Ms. Haws said. 
 Gilbert & Bennett's influence can also be seen in the row of Portland Avenue duplexes originally built as rental housing for workers, a former school building built by the company in 1916 and the 104-year-old Gilbert Memorial Church, a gift from the company president, Edwin Gilbert. 
 The mill's historical importance to the area is not lost on Stephen Soler, the man behind the redevelopment project. Mr. Soler's company, the Georgetown Land Development Company, is located in the stone Gilbert & Bennett headquarters building, where a hidden wall safe is still crammed full of factory ledgers and employee records. The redevelopment plans -- designed and refined by the Roger Ferris architectural firm after a weeklong community brainstorming process led by Andres Duany, the New Urbanism guru and principal in the Miami-based planning firm of Duany Plater-Zyberk & Company, preserves 32 brick factory buildings, and mimics their style in more than 20 new structures. 
 Mr. Soler also intends to power up a hydroelectric facility on the site to generate electricity for one of the commercial buildings. Rail service will return to the complex, as Mr. Soler has received the go-ahead to build a train platform for Metro-North on the Danbury branch line. The integration of these existing historical elements is in keeping with the development's New Urbanism philosophy, which rejects sprawl in favor of a densely developed village environment that minimizes the need for automobiles. Parking areas and roadways are to be designed to make it more convenient for residents of the 416 housing units -- which will include artists' lofts, town houses and single-family ''green'' homes -- to walk than drive. 
 ''It will be a 7-to-10-minute walk at most from the furthest edge of the site to the train platform,'' Mr. Soler said. 
 Though the first housing units will not be ready for occupancy until mid-2006, Mr. Soler has already filled an accordion file with hundreds of requests from potential buyers (including Ms. Haws). Mr. Soler plans to sell the housing development rights to builders who meet the company's design standards. Sales will begin this summer.
 ''People are walking in and offering $400,000 to $500,000 a lot, and that's for an eighth of an acre,'' he said. ''But I have to tell them, I can't take any money yet.''
 The massive project marks a sharp departure for Redding, a rural, environmentally conscious town with very little commercial development. Meadow Ridge, a large assisted-living facility off of Route 107 in Georgetown, is the only other major development in town. 
 MR. SOLER won over the community with his inclusive planning process and promised clean-up of the factory pollution, said Kate Ebbott, a Redding resident who sits on the board of the newly created Wire Mill Arts Foundation. The foundation will manage a black-box theater to be built in the complex. 
 ''The theater will be sort of the heartbeat of this development, and the whole complex will function as a center for Redding,'' Ms. Ebbott said. ''Right now, Redding people really don't have a place to congregate.'' 
 In addition to building the theater, Mr. Soler is obligated to provide 40 units of affordable housing for the elderly and another 15 for artists.
 The project is not expected to place a burden on Redding's school system; the UConn analysis projected no more than 60 additional children because of the size of the housing units. Some of the units also carry age restrictions. The town will gain an estimated $4.8 million in annual property tax revenues from the project. Residents of the development will be taxed separately for the cost of road and grounds maintenance, and police and fire protection. 
 The project will add nearly 245,000 square feet in office and retail space, but Mr. Soler said he would carefully choose commercial tenants so as not to put any existing Georgetown merchants out of business. In addition to the Olive Market and the saloon, Main Street area retailers include a Mexican restaurant, a deli, a party designer and a high-end florist. 
 Gayle Howard and her husband, John, consider their recent purchase of a 3,300-square-foot free-standing condominium at Redding Woods a wise investment. After 33 years in Wilton, the couple wanted to downsize a bit without leaving the area. 
 Mrs. Howard said they expect their condo to rise in value significantly by the time they move again in a few years. While their view affords them the ''most beautiful sunsets you've ever seen,'' Mrs. Howard said, they too have put their name on Mr. Stoler's list of interested buyers.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MORE THAN A ZIP CODE -- The redevelopment of an old mill site, below, in Georgetown, Conn., is expected to revive the area with new housing, restaurants and shops.
On the Market: 51 GEORGETOWN ROAD -- This house has five bedrooms, three full- and two half-baths. It is listed at $2,400,000 and sits on more than six acres. (203)847-6633.
93 GEORGETOWN ROAD -- This house has four bedrooms and three baths. It is listed at $879,999 and sits on two acres. (203)227-5117.
331 MOUNTAIN ROAD -- This house has five bedrooms and two baths. It is listed at $569,000 and sits on 1.3 acres. (203)762-8666. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 1,650AREA: 2.85 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $103,424MEDIAN PRICE OF ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $620,000TAX ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $9,570 (in Redding)MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $585,500SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $11,986 (in Redding)DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 55 milesCOMMUTING TIME TO MIDTOWN: 90 minutes on Metro-North's New Haven line (Danbury branch) from the Branchville station in Ridgefield
 $14.25 one-way, $308 monthly.GOVERNMENT: Redding: First Selectman (Natalie T. Ketcham, Republican) and two-member Board of Selectmen elected to two-year terms.ZIP CODE: 06829Map of Connecticut highlighting Georgetown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); CHEESE (61%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: GILBERT & BENNETT MANUFACTURING CO (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3496 MISC. FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCTS (92%)

PERSON: Lisa Prevost

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Georgetown (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



645 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Welfare Runs Amok

 BODY:
Earlier this month, Johnson & Johnson became one of the first major American corporations to sign on for a one-year ''tax holiday'' -- a government-sponsored opportunity for American multinationals to bring their foreign profits back to the United States at a puny tax rate of 5.25 percent, compared with the normal corporate rate of 35 percent. Johnson & Johnson intends to repatriate $11 billion. And that is just the beginning of what is shaping up to be an unprecedented government giveaway.
 The drug giant Schering-Plough has announced a coming $9.4 billion repatriation, and Eli Lilly has announced one for $8 billion. Many other cash-rich companies, especially in pharmaceuticals and technology, are expected to follow suit. Pfizer is considering whether to repatriate $29 billion in untaxed foreign profits; Hewlett-Packard has $14.5 billion eligible for repatriation; Intel has $6 billion. By the end of 2005, an estimated $100 billion to $500 billion will have found its way home. Over the long run, Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation projects that the holiday will allow companies to avoid $3.3 billion in taxes, an estimate that many tax experts think is low. 
 The nation's corporate tax rules -- combined with spotty enforcement by an underfunded and outmuscled Internal Revenue Service -- provide strong incentives for American companies to shift their profits from the United States to low-tax havens, such as Ireland and Luxembourg. Once there, the profits are allowed to grow untaxed by the United States until they are repatriated. That tax deferral is a hugely munificent gesture -- as if the country's biggest businesses had been granted their own special I.R.A.'s. 
 But it wasn't enough for many companies that have piled up excess cash abroad. The Homeland Investment Coalition, a roster of dozens of America's largest corporations, lobbied vigorously -- and successfully -- for a tax holiday before deigning to repatriate their overseas profits.
 Congress's ostensible purpose for allowing the holiday is to unleash a flood of money for job creation, hence the name of the law that includes the holiday -- the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. But few of the approved uses for the repatriated funds -- such as debt redemption, advertising and a catchall category of ''financial stabilization'' -- will lead directly, if at all, to more jobs. One approved use -- the ability to spend the money to buy other companies -- would be more likely to create layoffs, as corporate acquisitions usually do.
 Companies can also use the money to help pay legal liabilities, which could prove to be a big boon for companies like the drug maker Merck, which is sitting on some $15 billion in untaxed foreign profits and faces an estimated $18 billion in potential claims arising from the Vioxx debacle. Multinationals cannot use the repatriated profits to pay dividends to shareholders, buy back their own stock or pay executives. But because companies have a lot of flexibility in financing their activities, they will generally be able to use the money as they see fit while still meeting the letter of the law. 
 So the tax holiday blesses rather than curbs tax avoidance and is structured to encourage little if any new domestic economic activity. It establishes a horrible precedent by encouraging companies to leave profits abroad in anticipation of future holidays. It makes fools of companies that have routinely repatriated foreign profits at the full corporate tax rate. And it disadvantages American companies that have no foreign presence and thus no opportunity to reap profits at a discounted tax rate.
 All it will really do is what the drafters probably intended all along -- further erode the nation's corporate tax base and impugn the system's integrity, in that way building a case for eliminating corporate taxes altogether. That is a lousy way to make policy. Reforms to the corporate tax system must be debated on their merits, not under cover of some phony label like ''job creation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); ACQUISITIONS (60%); LAYOFFS (60%) Taxation; Editorials; Multinational Companies; Corporations

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MERCK & CO INC (84%); PFIZER INC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); INTEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



646 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Light Rail for the East End

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 With East End traffic congestion becoming a year-round phenomenon, the Long Island Rail Road's Montauk and Greenport lines remain the most underutilized transportation resources on Long Island. Unfortunately, the infrequent, irregular service on each line does not serve the local East End market.
 In contrast, the diesel-powered light rail vehicles described in ''Two Tracks Converge'' (Jan. 9) could provide frequent, low-cost service connecting North and South Fork communities throughout the day. 
 In New Jersey, similar vehicles already connect Trenton and Camden on New Jersey's 34-mile River Line. In California, to reduce traffic congestion and air pollution, diesel powered light rail vehicles dubbed Sprinters will serve the 24-mile Oceanside-Escondido rail route in 2005. 
 While the River Line and Sprinter required extensive track and signal reconstruction, diesel powered light rail vehicles can use existing Long Island Rail Road tracks and signals, sharing those tracks with the railroad's popular Manhattan-to-Montauk summer trains. 
 The light rail vehicles are lighter, faster and, with a one-person crew, far more economical than a Long Island Rail Road diesel train, and would allow frequent service throughout the day. Ideally, the light rail vehicles would connect with the railroad's trains in Ronkonkoma, Speonk and Patchogue while coordinated connections with Suffolk Transit buses would be scheduled at major East End stations.
 Building more roads would simply attract more traffic and congestion. The operation of fast, frequent light rail vehicle trains on the Montauk and Greenport lines would provide East End residents, workers and visitors with a reasonable alternative to driving.

Paul R. Gawkowski
Babylon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); AIR POLLUTION (54%) Transit Systems

PERSON: Paul R Gawkowski

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



647 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY INTERVIEW: WITH DAVIS DYER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Procter & Gamble Bulks Up

BYLINE: By LAURA RICH

 BODY:
PROCTER & GAMBLE made its own contribution last week to a month of megamerger announcements, saying it planned to buy Gillette in a deal initially valued at about $57 billion. 
 In addition to making Procter the largest consumer products firm by far, the deal would expand its stable of personal care products -- a relatively new area for the company, which is better known for brands like Tide, Coast and Ivory. 
 On the day of the announcement, Davis Dyer, the founding director of the Winthrop Group, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., and the lead author of ''Rising Tide: Lessons from 165 Years of Brand Building at Procter & Gamble'' (Harvard Business School Press, 2004) spoke about the company's strategy and its growing power. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. Procter & Gamble is already the world's biggest advertiser by a large margin. What benefit would the deal give the company as a marketer of brand-name products?

A. There are a number of benefits. Perhaps the biggest is that it's a complementary set of products that it would be getting, most notably in personal care products. P.&G. in the last 10 to 15 years has built up a major business in beauty care. They have a few brands, such as Old Spice, for men, but, really, not much of a position there for men. And, of course, Gillette is one of the pre-eminent personal care products companies for men. So combining what P.&G. has with what Gillette has makes this a real powerhouse in that industry.

Q. Does Procter & Gamble need to be in men's products?

A. To the extent that P.&G. aspires to become a major global leader in personal care products, it's a pretty big hole in the portfolio not to have men's products. The other thing about it is, P.&G. is already -- has been for some time -- the market leader in its other big brands such as baby care products, specifically disposable diapers, paper towels, detergents, oral care products. Those growth opportunities are finite, so the company has to continually develop big new businesses to graft on to what it has; otherwise its growth slows.

Q. Where do you see the weak links in Gillette's brand lineup?

A. Well, I think they're obviously a leader in men's personal care products: deodorants, shaving creams, shaving supplies and razors, of course. And they have a number of other brands, and they're obviously extremely skilled at consumer marketing in those lines. The line that has always stood out is Duracell batteries. The fit with the rest of Gillette's portfolio isn't as obvious there. It's a question mark.

Q. Do you see similar consumer marketing styles in the two companies, or do you expect Procter, which has been the standard-bearer for the way consumer products are marketed, to change the way Gillette products are promoted?

A. I would expect that P.&G. will add a few things to Gillette. P.&G. does have a very powerful formula and a strong culture and a strong conviction about ways of effective consumer marketing. So I think that over time, that will spread into Gillette. But I'll qualify that by saying P.&G. is also very good at absorbing companies it has acquired and learning from them. Gillette's a sophisticated, older, experienced company, and it's also very good at what it does. So, the likelihood that P.&G. would massively reorder how Gillette goes about marketing is pretty slight.

Q. Are there things that Procter could learn from Gillette?

A. Oh, sure. Especially about marketing to men. And, who knows, when you get down into the details of brand management, I'm sure there are best practices at Gillette that will back into P.&G.

Q. There are a couple of areas where the two companies have overlapping or competing products, like oral care and deodorant. Should P.&G. jointly promote those brands?

A. That would be consistent -- assuming that there are no S.E.C. or antitrust issues there, and if there are, I don't know. To one side, P.&G. has a history of maintaining multiple brands in the same category. In detergents, they have Tide and Cheer and Ariel and so forth. And in soaps, they have Ivory, Camay and Zest. And even in disposable diapers, they have two major brands in Pampers and Luvs. So, the fact of having two toothbrush brands is not a particular concern. The Oral-B brand has a lot of equity behind it; I'm sure P.&G. wants to preserve it.

Q. Would this merger give Procter more leverage in the ad market?

A. I would say so. If you're thinking about an overall ad buy and the relationship P.&G. has with the media -- and it already has a lot. It has more now.

An extended version of this interview is online: nytimes.com/yourmoney.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Davis Dyer of the Winthrop Group said Procter & Gamble would reap benefits from acquiring Gillette. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOILETRIES MFG (90%); BRANDING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); MEN (89%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BABY PRODUCTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (71%) 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Procter & Gamble Co; Gillette Co; Winthrop Group

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (92%); PG (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (92%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (92%)

PERSON: Davis Dyer; Laura Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



648 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3031 words

HEADLINE: Can Angelina Jolie Really Save the World?

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: Davos, Switzerland 

 BODY:
THE Rolls Royce of business conferences glides to its conclusion here today, capping a week of stimulating, high-minded discourse that makes the gathering such a hot ticket each year among chief executives, politicians, academics, journalists, the nonprofit set and the occasional celebrity.
 Look, there's Angelina Jolie! Angelina, how is the world faring on the health and human rights fronts? Oh, my gosh! It's Bono! Bono, what needs to be done about African poverty? Hey, Richard Gere and Sharon Stone, how can we tackle the AIDS crisis? 
 But this 34th annual conference of the World Economic Forum also scored 23 heads of state, 72 cabinet-level ministers, and about 500 global business leaders. Among the attendees were Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain; Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman; Viktor A. Yushchenko, the new president of Ukraine; Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the Google co-founders; former President Bill Clinton; Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader; and the South African novelist Nadine Gordimer. 
 Amid the panel discussions on global crises, technological innovation and effective management was a seminar, scheduled for Saturday, on ''Star Power and Social Change.'' The literature for that one stated that ''celebrities have become powerful advocates for social, political and economic causes'' and asked this tough follow-up question: ''What accounts for this trend?'' (For executives who do not want to shell out $37,600 in annual membership fees and charges to attend next year's panel, here is one possible four-word answer: Because they are sexy.)
 It is easy, of course, to take potshots at the forum, perhaps the only conference that bills itself as ''Committed to Improving the State of the World.'' The world is, after all, a very big place. It is also easy to poke fun at a conference that advises invitees to monitor their own greenhouse gas emissions: the forum provided a handy formula to determine how much carbon dioxide each guest was likely to produce during the week. 
 Yet the Davos conference is not so easily dismissed. This year's agenda, gathered under the theme of ''Taking Responsibility for Tough Choices,'' required attendees to consider topics as wide-ranging as world trade, pollution, poverty, globalization, American leadership, Islam and the Middle East, China's meteoric economic ascent, corporate governance, AIDS and other health care issues, financial corruption and weapons of mass destruction.
 Moreover, many of the forum's 2,250 participants appeared to be fully engaged by its spirit and goals. Mr. Gere gave one of the gathering's most informed and passionate speeches addressing the AIDS crisis. Ms. Stone deployed her star power to great effect on Friday, rallying attendees at a poverty seminar to contribute $1 million to fight malaria in Tanzania. But beyond the high-caliber guest list, ambitious agenda, breathtaking Alpine setting and extraordinary food and wine, does the forum amount to anything more than Oscar-worthy hobnobbing? 
 ''If we didn't exist someone would need to create us,'' said Klaus Schwab, the forum's founder and executive chairman. ''Global challenges are not solved by business alone, by politics alone, by not-for-profits alone. They are solved by collaboration, and it requires a multi-stakeholder platform.''
 Business leaders, by far the forum's dominant cohort, as well as some academics and nonprofit leaders who attended, said the quality of the discussions made the event worthwhile.
 The forum also allowed for those random moments when Michael Dell, the Dell Inc. founder, was suddenly standing next to you at the urinals; when Craig O. McCaw, the cellphone service pioneer, gently sidled up next to you at a reception; or when the currency speculator George Soros and the political guru David Gergen were at your shoulder, deep in conversation. 
 ''Obviously, I see value in the conference,'' said N.R. Narayana Murthy, chairman of Infosys Technologies of India and co-chairman of this year's forum. ''I don't know of any other conference that brings together politicians, artists, brilliant physicists, Nobel laureate winners and spiritual leaders.
 ''At Infosys we have a saying: 'You can disagree with me as long as you're not disagreeable.' And to me, Davos represents that. If you are open-minded you listen to others, and if you listen to others you become more open-minded.''
 BUT some of the forum's critics say that the reasons for attendance are less lofty. Activists have zeroed in on the forum in recent years, saying that the meeting's emphasis on free markets and free trade amount to camp counseling for money-grubbers. Others say that most participants jockey hard for invitations so that they can have access to one-of-a-kind networking opportunities or lucrative business deals, not because they want to promote social change.
 ''It's rich and powerful folks licking each other from top to toe and feeling good about it,'' said Andrew Hilton, director of the Center for the Study of Financial Innovation, a London organization that analyzes financial risks and opportunities. ''Davos used to be good, but now it's overstuffed and postprandial because it's protecting privilege rather than finding new opportunities. It doesn't have that hunger anymore.''
 Conceding with a chuckle that his critique may stem from ''sour grapes because I've never been invited,'' Mr. Hilton also said the forum was more than a retreat for the high and mighty. ''It gets sort of slogged off as a gabfest, but it's terribly intense,'' he said. ''Klaus Schwab is a genius and he's the Bill Gates of symposiums because he's invented Davos Man and Davos Man rules the world; it's capitalism without frontiers.''
 Although the forum is indisputably Mr. Schwab's creation, ''Davos Man'' as a concept first took root in the imagination of Samuel P. Huntington, a political science professor at Harvard. In an influential and controversial essay published in 1993, he argued that ''Davos Culture'' symbolized a highly educated and financially privileged Western elite out of touch with real-world threats. (Though the news media often credit him with coining the term ''Davos Man,'' he never used it in his essay.)
 His essay inspired a 1996 book, ''The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order,'' which posited a schism between Western and Islamic cultures so profound that it would lead to confrontation. Criticized as incendiary when it was published, the book got renewed traction after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The book also warned of what it described as China's challenge to Western hegemony.
 ''What I'm saying is that we're developing a culture that is shared by most of the important people in the world, and Davos is one way in which the concerns of the elite are being worked out, and in that sense Davos plays a very important role,'' Professor Huntington said in a telephone interview before the forum. ''Now, as I point out in the book and elsewhere, those people represent a very small percentage of the population of the world. A divide exists, and elites are going to face resistance because of that and they need to pay attention to public opinion.''
 At an opening-day meeting to determine priorities for the week's agenda, some parameters of Davos culture were on display. Some 750 participants identified poverty, equitable globalization and climate change as central issues confronting the world. But demographic information that emerged from computer-generated responses to more personal questions showed the relatively narrow cast of the forum's membership. 
 According to the data, 66 percent of the respondents were men, 69 percent were in their 40's or 50's, and 70 percent were from Europe and North America. Despite the forum's focus on China and the Middle East, just 15 percent of the respondents were from the Asia-Pacific region and only 8 percent were from the Middle East. And only 4 percent of the respondents identified themselves as Latin American.
 As for careers, 50 percent of the respondents were from the business world. Among the rest, 9 percent were from the media, 9 percent from academia, 8 percent from nonprofit groups, 6 percent from government, 4 percent from science and medicine and 3 percent from the arts.
 That business executives, and issues close to the needs of Western business, have primacy here stems from the forum's founding in 1971 as a mini-business school that tried to replicate M.B.A. programs in the United States. 
 PROFESSOR SCHWAB, who is 66, was born in Germany just before World War II. He said he became part of a postwar youth movement that was internationalist in outlook. He had a doctorate in mechanical engineering from a Swiss university and was working on a doctorate in economics when he unsuccessfully applied to the Harvard Business School in the mid-1960's. Determined to go to Harvard, he enrolled in what is now its Kennedy School of Government and received a master's in public administration.
 Returning to Switzerland, he briefly managed a machinery company and, in 1969, became a business professor at the University of Geneva. Two years later, Professor Schwab started the European Management Conference, as it was known until 1987, when he changed its name to the World Economic Forum.
 ''I felt that to shake up Europe and expose people to the most advanced management concepts would be a good thing,'' he said. The first year of his meeting was a hit, he said, but attendance soon withered because participants could get more sophisticated training in the United States. But the twin shocks of floating exchange rates and the oil embargo of the mid-1970's made executives seek more global approaches to management. Attendance at the forum, which began loading its agenda with geopolitics and other nonbusiness topics, took off.
 PROFESSOR SCHWAB pursued big American banks, corporate chief executives and Harvard Business School as early partners and tried to focus meetings on the global issues and promising regional economies of the moment. Over the years, that meant an agenda that embraced Latin America before moving on to Eastern Europe and Russia and then jumped into a feverish flirtation with Internet entrepreneurs just before the dot-com bubble burst in 2000.
 In the late 1980's, politicians also found that Davos was an excellent place to make groundbreaking diplomatic statements, so that the forum also became an important foreign affairs platform. 
 Over the last decade, Professor Schwab and the news media studiously courted each other. That helped turn the forum into something of a cult event and gave the press an unusually hefty presence. The New York Times and its sister publication, The International Herald Tribune, for example, had more than a dozen reporters patrolling Davos's slippery, scenic side streets this year. Journalists have also become an integral part of the forum's machinery, with many moderating some of the gathering's most prominent panels.
 The forum's operating budget comes largely from dues from about 1,000 corporate members; they must have at least $3 billion in annual revenue to join. Professor Schwab estimated that 75 of the top 100 companies in the Fortune 500 were members. For the year ended last Sept. 30, the forum had income of $62.3 million, expenditures of $61 million and an endowment of about $11.7 million.
 ''Davos is a mirror of the global agenda,'' Professor Schwab said. ''It's very complex, very diffuse and very demanding.''
 Although the forum has embraced the challenge of uniting distinct constituencies -- technology mavens, foreign policy leaders, corporations, and nonprofits -- the gathering in Davos this year often felt splintered. Artists and nonprofits did not really drive the forum's agenda as much as entrepreneurs and executives who scrambled to get into ''governors' groups'': small, invitation-only events, led by industry leaders, that offered a mix of market insights and the possibility of a post-Davos business transaction.
 Professor Schwab said he believed that about 50 percent of the corporate membership was enthusiastically committed to the forum's goal of uniting politicians, businesses and nonprofits to improve the world. He described an additional 30 percent as ''loyal'' but said that they attended only the forum's events in Davos and were not involved in many initiatives the organization pursues the rest of the year. He called the remaining 20 percent ''followers.''
 ''They are not really interested in the institution, to be frank,'' he said of this last group. ''They are interested in the networking.''
 All of these factors give the Davos meeting a split personality. The fact that about 3 billion of the earth's 6.4 billion people get by on roughly $2 a day was highlighted in a number of briefings last week. But the forum still squeezed in a seminar called ''Hedge Fund Fever Heats Up'' at the same time as a discussion on financial solutions to poverty. The hedge fund seminar included the Moore Capital Management founder Louis Moore Bacon among its panelists. A panel on Thursday instructing investors on ''Spotting the Next Bubble'' filled up early, while another in the same time slot, ''Does Business Have a Noble Purpose?,'' remained wide open. No sign-up was required for a seminar titled ''Does Human Rights Pay?,'' but ''The Impact of Broadband'' was booked quickly. Some chief executives acknowledge that doing business is an important part of their annual trip to Davos, but they say that over all, they attend because the event is uniquely informative and intellectually challenging. ''The reason to go, on a purely intellectual basis, is you can very efficiently sample the sum of what the world really thinks,'' said Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive. ''Understanding is actually worth a lot, and it's always amazing to me how people underestimate the value of understanding.''
 A number of participants from nonprofit organizations said the conference had enormous appeal to them because it provided rare access to corporate executives -- and because the groups' needs and interests garnered serious attention. 
 ''Not all C.E.O.'s are pillagers of the earth,'' said William R. Pace, executive director of the World Federalist Movement, a nonprofit group that promotes global democracy and international laws. ''Many of them have deep concerns about social issues, and the forum is an effort to create a dialogue.
 ''I'm absolutely convinced there's been an important exchange and broadened dialogue between nonprofits and corporate leaders that wouldn't have occurred but for Davos,'' he added. ''I think it has a very profound impact, but how measurable that is is another question.''
 Two goals of the forum are to help executives anticipate and prepare for risks and to have businesses make on-the-ground contributions in needy countries or regions.
 On the risk assessment side, the forum has had some lapses. During the 1990's, when it promoted free markets, freely traded currencies and rapid globalization, it failed to anticipate some of the geopolitical upheaval engendered by those changes, which left countries like Argentina and Russia with highly skeptical views of Western powers and market dynamics. 
 Last year, the forum hired Ged Davis, a former corporate strategist at Shell, to oversee its risk assessment and strategic insight arms. Mr. Davis said the forum planned to knit more closely its economic research capabilities with the views of geopolitical and economic thinkers who were part of the organization. 
 As for the on-the-ground initiatives, the forum has assembled a list of estimable projects. ''We're trying to bring together various stakeholders to address issues and promote problem-solving,'' said Mark Adams, a forum spokesman. ''We don't see ourselves as a conference or some sort of gabfest. We see what we do as a year-round process, of which the forum is a highlight.''
 SEVERAL years ago, the forum established its Disaster Relief Network; that group recently helped get Sri Lanka's main airport up and running a few days after the Indian Ocean tsunami. And the forum has sought to increase AIDS awareness; multimillion-dollar contributions to fight the spread of the disease have been announced in Davos by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. (Last Monday, the foundation announced that it would donate $750 million to support immunization programs through Unicef.) 
 The forum has also made ''bridging the digital divide'' one of its priorities. It said that it had worked with 30 businesses to donate time and computer technology to help modernize teaching methods in schools in Jordan -- and that it planned to try to start the program in other Arab countries as well. 
 Academics in Davos said they welcomed such initiatives. The forum ''convenes a vast array of institutions and leaders and has the potential to create new partnerships that will make a very real difference for people and communities in need around the world,'' said John J. DeGioia, the president of Georgetown University. 
 ''The issues raised here,'' he added, ''are of deep interest to many members of the Georgetown community, and I believe that higher education can and should play a key role in responding to some of them.''
 For now, however, the forum's initiatives are not its claim to fame. When people think of Davos, they often think of those effervescent moments when political leaders have taken center stage. In 1994, for example, Shimon Peres and Yasir Arafat reached a draft agreement here on access to the Gaza Strip. And in 1992, F.W. de Klerk, the South African president, met here with Nelson Mandela and Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the Zulu leader.
 Although the forum has had less diplomatic drama recently, its proponents said such moments pointed to the fact that not all its accomplishments can be quantified -- and that much of what it achieves necessarily begins with words. Those words, they said, amount to much more than influential highfliers rubbing shoulders and brokering deals for a week.
 ''If you take action it starts with dialogue,'' Mr. Adams said. ''So we shouldn't apologize for dialogue.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE DAVOS PARTY -- Some of the big names sighted last week were, clockwise from bottom left, Charles Prince of Citigroup, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Sharon Stone, Bill Gates of Microsoft, Angelina Jolie and Bono. (Photos by Sebastian Derungs/Reuters [Davos]
Associated Press [Prince, Blair, Gates, Jolie]
Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images [Stone, Bono])(pg. 1)
President Aleksandr Kwasniewski of Poland, left, and President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine at Davos. (Photo by Pascal Lauener/Reuters)(pg. 4)
Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian finance minister, left, and Shimon Peres, deputy prime minister of Israel. One goal of Davos is to foster dialogue. (Photo by Laurent Gillieron/European Pressphoto Agency)
 A Davos session about the Bush administration's foreign policy included, from left, Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Christopher J. Dodd and Joseph R. Biden Jr. Forum participants say the real action is outside the panels. (Photo by Michel Euler/Associated Press)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WRITERS (77%); MALARIA (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); TRENDS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); EMISSIONS (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%); RELIGION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Conventions and Conferences; Celebrities; World Economic Forum

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (91%); BILL GATES (90%); BONO (90%); TONY BLAIR (86%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (69%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOE BIDEN (57%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); SHIMON PERES (53%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (53%); SERGEY BRIN (53%); LARRY PAGE (52%) Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (67%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (87%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (71%) Davos (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



649 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: A Tide of Islamic Fury, and How It Rose

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

 BODY:
AS Iraqis go to the polls today -- or do not -- it is a critical moment not only for America's gamble in the Middle East but in the evolution of Islam. While Iraqis try that most Western of political innovations, two strains of history are coming into play at once -- the growth of Islamic radicalism and the long hostility between the Sunni and Shiite sects.
 Islam was born in a time of turmoil and change in seventh-century Mecca, where the rapid growth of commerce and finance threatened old values and clan ties. The new monotheistic religion with which the Prophet Muhammad challenged the pagan idols of the day was in many ways a conservative call to restore the old values. It would be an oft-recurring theme. 
 Muslim warriors swept out of the desert spreading the new faith by sword and establishing a caliphate, a religious empire that would reach dazzling heights in learning and extend from Spain to far Asia. It was not without inner turmoil; a lasting schism formed between majority Sunnis and minority Shiites. 
 But by the end of the 19th century, the caliphate's final incarnation, the Ottoman Empire, was a spent force. After World War I, Britain and France redrew the map of the Middle East to suit their own ends, creating largely artificial countries. Unrest, uprisings and a birth of new ideologies started quickly.
 Frustration grew as new secular faiths failed and governments came to be seen as corrupt, inefficient, brutal, the pawns of foreigners, or all of the above.
 For many Sunnis, the answer became a return to a purer Islam, first with the Muslim Brotherhood movement. The mid-1960's writings of Sayyid Qutb are central to the current generation of Sunni fundamentalists, known variously as Wahhabis, Salafis and Deobandis. Shiite clerics forged a similar, if separate, path to radical politics.
 For some Sunnis, fundamentalist Islam encompasses a virulent hatred of Shiites as apostates and heretics. Thus, today's elections in Iraq -- where Shiites are expected to win big -- could well turn out to be about more than political real estate.
 Iraq today presents eerie parallels to much of this history. Capturing Baghdad in 1917, Maj. Gen. Stanley Maude of Britain declared, ''Our armies do not come into your cities and lands as conquerors or enemies, but as liberators.'' Insurgents captured and murdered British officers. The British bombed from the air. They staged a referendum for their chosen king. 
 Writing about the aftermath of World War I in the Middle East in his epic study, ''A Peace to End All Peace'' (Avon, 1989), David Fromkin stated that ''the modern belief in secular civil government is an alien creed in a region most of whose inhabitants for more than a thousand years, have avowed faith in a Holy Law that governs all of life, including government and politics.'' 
 ''European officials at the time had little understanding of Islam,'' he continued. ''They were too easily persuaded that Muslim opposition to the politics of modernization -- of Europeanization -- was vanishing. Had they been able to look ahead to the last half of the 20th century, they would have been astonished by the fervor of the Wahhabi faith in Saudi Arabia, by the passion of religious belief in warring Afghanistan, by the continuing vitality of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, Syria and elsewhere in the Sunni world and by the recent Khomeini upheaval in Shiite Iran.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Union Jack is displayed in Baghdad, 1920. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)
(Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 4)
(Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)
(Photo by Jim Hollander/Reuters)
(Photo by John Kifner and Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. 5)Chart/Maps: ''The Global Context''1862-1903 -- Fledgling Zionist movement has sent 25,000 Jews to Palestine in Second Aliyah by 1903.1905 -- Jewish National Fund established to buy land in Palestine.1910 -- British, Russians intervene in areas of Persia (present-day Iran).World War I1914-18 -- Faltering Ottoman Empire, center of Islam, joins Austria and Germany. Britain sponsors Great Arab Revolt, aided by Lawrence of Arabia, in hopes of establishing their own friendly caliphate, run by the Hashemite family in Arabia.But the secret Sykes-Picot agreement divides the Middle East into British and French spheres of influence, dashing Arab hopes of independence. And the Balfour Declaration calls for the establishment of a Jewish homeland in what was then Palestine.With victory, the French would hold power in Lebanon and Syria
the British in Egypt, Palestine, Transjordan and Mesopotamia, renamed Iraq and cobbled together from three Ottoman provinces centered in Mosul, Baghdad and Basra.1920 -- French march on Damascus and oust Faisal, Lawrence's leader of the Arab revolt, who had been promised he would rule an Arab confederation. They now control Syria and Lebanon, which they enlarge from a mountain enclave of Maronite Christians and Druze to include Sunni and Shiite areas. This will eventually lead to civil war. Faisal is now unemployed.1921 -- Abdullah, Faisal's older brother, marches on Amman and threatens to invade Syria. To pacify him, British break off what is now Jordan from their Palestine mandate and put him in charge.British switch Faisal's franchise to Iraq. A yes/no referendum is held on his kingship. He is said to have won overwhelmingly.British make Reza Khan, an officer in a Persian Cossack regiment, the strongman in Iran. In 1925, he deposes last of Qajar dynasty and names himself shah.1927 -- Oil is discovered in Iraq.Map of the Mideast in 1921 highlighting French mandates and British mandates.1938 -- Standard Oil of California gains oil concession in Saudi Arabia.ASCENDANCE OF U.S.WORLD WAR II, 1939-1945 -- At war's end, Britain and France are exhausted, their mandates over Arab lands ended. The U.S. begins to assume a major role in the region.1941 -- British remove Iran's Reza Khan, installed in 1921, for his Nazi sympathies. They install his young son on the Peacock Throne.1945 -- President Franklin D. Roosevelt meets the Saudi king, Abdul Aziz, pledging support and protection in exchange for Aramco oil concession.1946 -- Winston Churchill names Abdullah king of Jordan.Founding of Israel1948-1949 -- Israel is established after years of fighting among Arabs, British soldiers and Jewish nationalists in underground organizations. Fierce battles are waged by nascent Israeli army
forces from neighboring Arab countries are defeated. Jordan holds on to the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Some 700,000 Palestinians flee
many, along with their descendents, remain in refugee camps today. U.S. is first to recognize Israel, minutes after David Ben-Gurion proclaims establishment of the state.1953 -- After the Iranian premier Mohammed Mossadegh nationalizes oil, he is overthrown in C.I.A.-engineered street demonstrations and coup. The shah, who had fled that same year, is reinstalled.1958 -- As the cold war mounted, America proclaimed the ''Eisenhower Doctrine'' to contain Communism in the Middle East. But Syria, Iraq and Egypt were to fall under Soviet influence.ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICTThe 1967 WarArab armies threaten Israel, which launches pre-emptive attack. Arabs are humiliated by swift defeat. Israel gains all of Jerusalem and the West Bank. Paratroopers who have taken sacred Western Wall, site of Second Temple, bring revered Rabbi Kook, who lays theological basis for occupation and settlement of Biblical lands.1973 -- Gush Emunim - ''Block of the Faithful'' - is formed to establish Jewish settlements in the occupied territories. As the settlement movement grows over the years, Ariel Sharon, left, the fierce general who will rise to become prime minister, is its patron, building on strategic hilltops. Some settlements become full-fledged cities, with distinctive redtile roofs.1979 -- Camp David accords establish peace - albeit a cold one - between Egypt and Israel.Map of Israel highlighting boundary prior to war.Afghanistan1979-1989 -- The Soviet Union invades
war rages for a decade. Seven Afghan factions - all, to varying degrees, Islamic fundamentalists - establish resistance base in Peshawar, Pakistan, where they receive money and arms from the U.S. and Saudi Arabia, funneled through Pakistani intelligence. But Afghanistan also becomes a training ground for jihad. Muslims - Osama bin Laden and his chief aide, Ayman al-Zawahiri, among them - flock to the fight
many of these ''Afghanis'' go on to battle in Bosnia, Algeria or Chechnya.1982 -- Israel invades Lebanon to oust P.L.O. U.S. negotiates cease-fire to allow Yasir Arafat and fighters for withdraw to Tunis. But when the Maronite Christian president, Bashir Gemayel, is assassinated, his militia slaughters hundreds of Palestinians in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps while Israeli troops nearby do nothing to stop them. The U.S. sends Marines back, but they become embroiled in civil war and their barracks is blown up by a suicide bomber. The battleship New Jersey shells the mountains and the Americans depart. Israelis eventually pull back to a ''security zone'' on southern border.MID-1990's TO 2005 -- Neoconservatives, while out of power, call for the overthrow of Saddam Hussein as central to a plan to remake the Middle East as democratic and friendly to Israel. With the election of George W. Bush, they move into key positions at the Pentagon. After 9/11, they push invasion of Iraq, citing links to the attack and weapons of mass destruction. Neither claim turns out to be true.OSLO PEACE ACCORDS, 1993-2004 -- A complex accord envisions a final peace and allows for the Palestinian Authority to rule in the occupied territories with Arafat as president. For a time optimism prevails. But Palestinian frustration mounts, particularly with the growth of settlements and with the corruption and inefficiency of their authority. After Sharon walks on an area atop the Temple Mount sacred to Muslims, a second Intifada breaks out, its clashes broadcast widely by Al Jazeera, as it escalates from rock throwing to suicide bombing.2001 -- American-led forces attack Afghanistan after 9/11 and swiftly oust the Taliban. An American-backed president is installed. But bin Laden remains at large.Graph tracks Settler population in occupied territories1993: 100,0002005: at least 230,000In the Arab WorldLAST YEARS OF AN EMPIREMap of Europe highlighting Ottoman Empire at its greatest extent.REVOLTS AGAINST BRITISH , FRENCH1918-1921 -- Anti-British revolts break out in Egypt, Transjordan, Palestine (where rioters also attack Jews) and Iraq. In Iraq, British officers are kidnapped and executed. Britian vows to defeat tribesmen with new modern weaponry: bombing villages from the air.1919-1945 -- Unrest across Arab world over neocolonial rule by Britain and France, variously taking religious, nationalist or Communist forms1924 -- Muslim caliphate abolished in Turkey by Kemal Ataturk and other modernizers.1945 -- Emerging nations form Arab League
little is achieved.1952 -- Gamal Abdel Nasser seizes power in Egypt.1958 -- Iraqi monarchy ousted in military coup. The royal family is killed.1962 -- First of a long series of coups in Syria.1964 -- Palestine Liberation Organization established.1968 -- Saddam Hussein seizes power in Iraq. While Baath ideology is avowedly secular, the new rulers are a clique from the minority Sunni religious sect.1970 -- Syria: Hafez al-Assad, a Baathist from the minority Alawite sect, seizes power.Nasser dies
dream of unified Arab nationalism unfulfilled.Black September in Jordan: armed Palestinian factions expelled in civil war
most go to Lebanon.Yom Kippur War1973 -- Arabs attack
lose again. Israel is at first hard-pressed, relieved by American arms shipments. But the Egyptian president Anwar el-Sadat gains prestige from initial charge across Suez Canal.CIVIL WAR IN LEBANON, 1975-90 -- Christians, Sunnis, Shiites, Druze, Palestinians, and Syrians fight each other in shifting combinations.1980-88 -- Iran-Iraq war, result of Iraq's attempt to seize Irans oil fields. U.S. sides with Iraq.1987 -- Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza begin Intifada against Israeli occupation.Kuwait Invasion, First Gulf War1990 -- Saddam Hussein invades Kuwait and seizes its oil fields
many Arab nations are aghast and join U.S.-led coalition. Jordan sits war out
the P.L.O. backs Iraq.1991 -- After months of preparation and a heavy bombing, ground war lasts only four days. In aftermath, Shiites in south and Kurds in north rise up against Saddam Hussein, with American encouragement. But they receive no help and are slaughtered.1996 -- Al Jazeera, an independent satellite TV station in Qatar, revolutionizes journalism in Arab world.Second Gulf WarMARCH 20, 2003-2005 -- The plan is for a swift advance on Baghdad, with the troops greeted by cheers, and a drawdown starting in the summer. But after the fall of Baghdad, looting and anarchy ensue. By the summer of 2003, suicide car bombings are common. Shiites and Sunnis stage armed rebellions and, although marines level the insurgent base of Falluja in 2004, the situation appears to continue worsening. Some fear the election heightens the danger of splitting Iraq along Sunni-Shiite lines.Sunni Muslims''Majority and Minority Sects''Up to 90 percent of the world's Muslims are Sunni, with most of the rest Shiite. But the approximate proportions vary from country to country:Saudi ArabiaSunni: 90%Shiite: 10KuwaitSunni: 60Shiite: 25Iraq (Sunnis include Kurds and Arabs)Sunni: 34Shiite: 63BahrainSunni: 30Shiite: 70LebanonSunni: 23Shiite: 38Druze: 7IranSunni: 10Shiite: 89RISE OF RELIGIOUS FUNDAMENTALISM1924 -- King Ibn Saud, below, conquers Mecca, ousting as sharifs there the British-allied Hashemites. The strict Wahhabi sect of Islam spreads throughout Saudi Arabia. The Saudi royal family's legitimacy rests on religion, its role as protector of Mecca and Medina, Islam's holy cities.1928 -- The Muslim Brotherhood is founded in Egypt. It is the grandfather of Islamic movements, the alternative to secular nationalism and socialism. Its slogan: ''The Koran is our constitution.''1936 -- Arab revolt in Palestine, below
Sunni clerics prominent.1960's -- Salafists and Muslim Brothers, under persecution in Egypt, Syria and other countries, find refuge in Saudi Arabia, where they become influential in religious and educational systems.'Signposts'1964 -- Sayyid Qutb publishes Signposts (sometimes translated as ''Milestones''), the fundamental intellectual text for radical Islamicists, including Osama bin Laden.He posits the concept of jahiliyya pre-Islamic barbarism - in the Arab world, in which political leaders, even if they claim to be Muslims, are illegitimate.A major influence on Qutb, originally a modernist literary critic, was a visit to the U.S. between 1948 and 1950, which appalled him. He was particularly revolted by attending a church dance in Greeley, Colo.: ''Every young man took the hand of a young woman. And these were young men and women who had just been singing their hymns! Red and blue lights, with only a few white lamps, illuminated the dance floor. The room became a confusion of feet and legs
arms twisted around hips
lips met lips
chests pressed together.''He is hung on Nasser's orders in 1966.1979 -- Great Mosque in Mecca seized during hajj by Saudi fundamentalists (below).1981 -- President Sadat of Egypt assassinated during a military parade by a cell inspired by Qutb. ''I have killed Pharaoh,'' their leader shouts. Radicals are rounded up and put on trial in a cage, below. Among those held are the blind sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, now jailed in connection with the first attack on the World Trade Center, and Ayman al-Zawahiri, who would become bin Laden's right-hand man.1988 -- Islamic fundamentalist movement Hamas emerges as a force in the Palestinian Intifada.1989 -- After years of fighting, mujahedeen drive Soviets out of Afghanistan. The factions turn on each other and the country sinks into anarchic civil war. The United States takes no further interest.1989 -- Sudan: Hassan al-Turabi seizes power
declares Islamic republic.1990-91 -- Algeria holds free elections, rare in region. Islamicists win. Army stages coup
civil war ensues.1992-96 -- Bin Laden, furious over American military presence in Saudi Arabia, takes refuge in Sudan.1993 -- World Trade Center bombed by fundamentalist cell.1996 -- Taliban in Afghanistan give shelter to bin Laden and Al Qaeda. With his help they conquer Kabul. He now has base for organization and training camps. He also declares jihad against Americans occupying the land of the two Holy Sites.American Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia, Khobar Towers, is bombed, killing 19. Responsibility never firmly established.1997 -- One of the worst of a series of attacks by Egyptian fundamentalists on foreign tourists in the Valley of Kings kills 70, including 60 foreigners. A major government crackdown follows.1998 -- Bin Laden proclaims ''Jihad against Jews and Crusaders.'' Al Qaeda bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania kill 224. The date - Aug. 7 - is the anniversary of the Saudi king's invitation to American troops to defend against Saddam Hussein.2000 -- Al Qaeda suicide boat attack on destroyer U.S.S. Cole in Aden harbor, Yemen, kills 17 sailors.SEPT. 11, 2001 -- Al Qaeda airliner attacks bring down the World Trade Center, damage Pentagon
more than 3,000 are killed.Shiite MuslimsWith the death of the Prophet Muhammad in 632, rivalries ensued over who would be his successor. His son-inlaw Ali laid claim, but three other early companions were chosen first.Ali finally became caliph but was murdered by a religious malcontent. His son, Hussein, formed a party (Shiite means partisan) to press the family's claim. But in 680, he and his warriors were surrounded by his enemies at Karbala in present-day Iraq, and killed. His head was sent to the new Umayyad caliphate in Damascus. Shiites revere martyrdom and celebrate his death with ritual whipping during the holiday of Ashura.The Shiite 12th Imam disappeared in 872, and the faithful believe he went into occultation and will someday return as the Mahdi, or redeemer.1963-1977 -- Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, left, sent into exile in Najaf, Iraq, by shah of Iran. In that holy city, he studies with Ayatollah Bakr Sadr and they develop ideology of revolutionary Shiite Islam. Bakr Sadr founds underground Shiite movement Al Dawa (the Call, as in call to prayers). He is killed on Saddam Husseins orders in 1980.1974 -- Amal, a movement of Shiite underclass, founded in Lebanon.1977 -- Khomeini expelled from Iraq by Saddam Hussein. From his headquarters outside Paris he phones fiery sermons to Iran
recordings are sent to mosques around the country. Iranian RevolutionIranian Revolution1979 -- The shah is overthrown and driven into exile after bloody street demonstrations. Khomeini returns in triumph. Radical clergy members cement hold on power with the aid of Students Following the Imam's Line, who seize the U.S. Embassy and hold 52 hostages for 444 days.1982-84 -- Hezbollah (Party of God) emerges as radical Shiite force in Lebanon. It is supported by Iran with weapons and Revolutionary Guard trainers brought in through Syria.In addition to the Marine barracks, the U.S. embassy in Lebanon is bombed three times. American hostages are taken
 some are held to exchange for a Hezbollah cell of bombers jailed in Kuwait who are working on behalf of Al Dawa.1989 -- Khomeini dies and is buried in a frenzied ceremony.2000 -- Israel withdraws from southern Lebanon after years of increasingly sophisticated ambushes and attacks by Hezbollah. The group is hailed as national and Arab heroes and has established a social service network, hospitals and a widely watched television station.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); FUNDAMENTALISM (92%); WORLD WAR I (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HAJJ (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TERRORISM (67%); REFERENDUMS (61%) Elections; Islam; Sunni Muslims; Shiite Muslims; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); HEZBOLLAH (92%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%); US AIR FORCE (59%); HAMAS (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (96%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (92%) John Kifner

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); EGYPT (96%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); LEBANON (96%); JORDAN (95%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (93%); KUWAIT (93%); SUDAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); YEMEN (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); QATAR (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (59%) Iraq; Middle East; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



650 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Land Reform Looks to Seize Idle Farmland

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: EL CHARCOTE, Venezuela 

 BODY:
There may be no more explosive issue in Latin American politics than land reform, or how to address the problem of too much land in the hands of so few people. 
 In Latin America land reform has been met with mostly dire results in recent decades -- failure and widespread violence in Colombia and Brazil, coups and revolutions in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. In Africa, President Robert G. Mugabe has all but plunged Zimbabwe's economy into ruin in the effort to redistribute vast -- and vastly unequal -- colonial-era holdings. 
 Now comes President Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's left-leaning populist, who has promised to end what his government calls ''latifundios,'' estates of at least 5,000 hectares, or about 12,350 acres, that remain idle, as part of a fast-moving land reform that is being closely watched across the region and in Washington, where Mr. Chavez is no favorite of the Bush administration. 
 Initially, the effort, which began with a land-reform law passed in 2001, was met with few complaints as the government redistributed some five million acres of public land to peasants. But now, as Mr. Chavez's government trains its sights on 6.6 million acres of private holdings, farmers are increasingly worried that it will recklessly seize private property. 
 So far, disputes over the distribution of public land have been relatively rare, with farmers making complaints in about 5 percent of the cases that land they held title to was taken away. But violence is not unheard of, and about 80 peasant land invaders have been killed by landowners, most of them during Mr. Chavez's six years in office.
 Critics say Mr. Chavez's often super-heated language is encouraging land invasions in several regions, including here on El Charcote, a 32,000-acre spread in Venezuela's northern plains that has been occupied by squatters and has become a test case in what Mr. Chavez calls ''a peaceful revolution.''
 With the government ignoring demands to dislodge them, the number of squatters has grown from a few dozen four years ago to hundreds today. They have built houses, and planted crops that include yucca, corn and sesame seeds. 
 The vast and verdant expanse of what was once grazing land that they have taken over is one where the Vestey Group of Britain had for years operated what company officials say was one of Venezuela's most efficient, productive ranches, producing three million pounds of beef a year. 
 The ranch, one of 14 Vestey properties in Venezuela, had been a vital part of a century-old empire famous for its string of international ranches in Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela, a shipping line and the chain of butcher shops in Britain.
 But government officials say they believe that much of El Charcote lies unnecessarily idle and that the Vestey Group lacks proper title to the land, something Vestey contests. 
 On Jan. 8, the governor of Cojedes State, Jhonny Yanez, a Chavez supporter, sent 200 troops to the farm and announced that El Charcote would be ''intervened,'' with Vestey's legal status and productivity to be determined by April. 
 ''We are here to do justice,'' Mr. Yanez said during the inspection.
 El Charcote continues to raise cattle, but if the government rules against Vestey, swaths of the ranch could be expropriated and redistributed to poor farmers, including some of those who have already occupied much of the farm. 
 Mr. Chavez and peasant farmers across Venezuela say such steps are needed because a small minority of landowners control a vast majority of arable lands, leaving most of the peasantry landless and impoverished and Venezuela importing most of its food. 
 ''Any self-respecting revolution cannot permit such a situation,'' Mr. Chavez said earlier this month as he signed a decree forming a national commission that will evaluate farms' productivity and the legitimacy of their ownership. 
 Mr. Chavez's government says its priority is not to expropriate, but rather to tax farms into productivity, by levying stiff penalties against land that is not being put to use. The plan gives farmers with idle fields two years to make them productive. 
 ''We are trying to make a country where agriculture was abandoned into one where it is revived,'' said Marisol Plaza, Venezuela's solicitor general. 
 The only lands to be seized, the government says, are those that were illegally obtained. Other, unproductive lands will be expropriated with compensation. 
 ''Those lands that are not productive, we rescue,'' said Eliezer Otaiza, a former army captain and secret police chief who now heads the government's National Land Institute. ''If they're private, we'll level a tax. Or we can expropriate.''
 Marino Alvarado, a lawyer who studies land issues for the human rights group Provea, says Venezuela has been in dire need of agrarian reform since a 1960's-era program fell short. 
 But he says the government's plans are hampered because the authorities do not have a registry of land ownership or even know how much arable land Venezuela has. 
 The other serious problem, one even the president's supporters acknowledge, is that credits and technical help for poor farmers who have received land has not been quickly forthcoming. 
 ''They have already carried out a great land distribution,'' Mr. Alvarado said. ''What they need to make sure of now is that the land does become productive.''
 Some of the squatters at El Charcote are plowing over fields with tractors bought with government credit. Though they technically have no right to farm before the government determines the legality of the Vestey Group's title, they seem mostly at ease, playing boccie when the sun is too bright to work and hunting for rabbits at night.
 ''I will not abandon this land,'' said Felix Rodriguez, 41, as a group of squatter farmers nodded in agreement. ''We have been working the land here. We are not robbing.''
 Those activities make Anthony Richards, the British-born manager of El Charcote, shake his head in frustration. 
 ''It's obviously extremely difficult to work under these conditions,'' Mr. Richards said.
 Mr. Richards, who has been working on Vestey properties in Venezuela for 18 years, says the presence of squatters has forced the farm to cut the size of its herd to a little more than 6,000 from 13,500 in 1999. Instead of producing 3.3 million pounds of meat a year, the farm now produces about a third of that amount, and the work force has fallen to 30 full-time employees, down from 70.
 Mr. Richards said that the company had provided the authorities with the paperwork necessary to prove the farm was productive, and that Vestey's ownership was authentic.
 ''It's like that,'' Mr. Richards said of the ownership papers, holding his hands about two feet apart for effect. ''It's that big. It's a book.'' 
 But the Vestey Group's opponents are equally adamant that the British firm has few rights when it comes to the farm. 
 ''They are the invaders,'' Jose Pimentel, a leader of peasants here, said of the British company. Indeed, Mr. Pimentel carries a briefcase full of government documents challenging Vestey's claims. ''They are on land that is not theirs.''
 The sentiment has emboldened people like Rosendo Moreno, 46. He has been here with his wife and five children for four years, has built a small house and plows with a battered tractor purchased on government credit.
 ''There are many latifundios with lots of land that isn't used,'' he said. ''They do not use it at all. What Chavez wants is to recuperate those fields.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregorio Rodriguez, one of hundreds of squatters on El Charcote, a British-owned cattle ranch, who have planted yucca, corn and other crops. The government is challenging the British company's ownership. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)Map of Venezuela highlighting El Charcote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); COUPS (77%); MEAT STORES (60%); LEGISLATION (52%) Agriculture; Land Use Policies; Squatters; Farmers; Productivity

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); AFRICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); ARGENTINA (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



651 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2865 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Ending

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
I CAME to Hollywood in 1991 thinking I knew quite a lot about the world and its ways. As a young reporter, I had been to Vietnam. Later, I covered Northern Ireland, several political campaigns and the White House under President Ronald Reagan and the elder President George Bush. On arriving, I was fresh from a sudden assignment in India after the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. But only in my 14 years here -- most of it spent covering the movie industry, the rest covering television and music -- did I come face to face with some of the more startling, and not always pleasant, truths about human behavior, my own included. 
 On retiring (officially, this is my final week at The Times), it seems best to sort through this Hollywood tour. It began in a string of modest, even shabby, apartments -- one of them, on Martel Avenue in West Hollywood, best remembered for the cluster of police cars, drug dealers and prostitutes on the corner. Along the way I married a studio chief, Amy Pascal, now chairwoman of Sony Pictures. For both of us, the liaison opened a rare two-way window on the inner workings of two worlds, moviedom and the press, that have long been locked in a messy but symbiotic struggle. But our marriage also changed the game. I won't speak for my wife and her own way of coping with career complications born of an alliance with a reporter, but I can say that our wedding, in August 1997, brought to the fore some of my own shortcomings. Clearly, I stayed too long on my beat, clinging to a notion that I could sidestep conflicts of interest by avoiding direct coverage of Sony, and learning too late why wiser heads counsel against even the appearance of conflict. But my marriage, and some of the events that tumbled out of it, also taught me something about the ferocity of a culture in which the players can be best friends one day and savage you the next.
 When I finally asked to be taken off the movie beat in 2000, I laughed and said I felt like the Duke of Windsor. But I quickly caught a lesson in how chilly life as a former movie correspondent could be. In the past, I'd written about Jeffrey Katzenberg, then president of the Walt Disney Company. He returned every call quickly and often phoned me; he dished over pasta at Locanda Veneta about all the studios in town and became such a pal that I once showed him off-the-record comments made about him by Michael Eisner. That was wrong and foolish, and years later I still regret it. As soon as I stopped covering movies, Mr. Katzenberg stopped responding to phone calls. I was surprised but shouldn't have been.
 Not every Hollywood moment involved operators like Mr. Katzenberg, nor were they all somehow tied up with my marriage. Fellow journalists contributed their share. In one remarkable episode about two years ago, Robert J. Dowling, the publisher and editor in chief of The Hollywood Reporter, threatened to punch me during a charity event. He was upset by an article I had written about two years earlier dealing with staff resignations after his newspaper failed to print an article about an inquiry by the Screen Actors Guild into whether the Reporter columnist George Christy had received pension and health benefits to which he was not entitled. Mr. Christy's column was soon suspended. (Peter Bart, the editor of Variety and a former Times Hollywood correspondent, went beyond Mr. Dowling: he sought to get me removed from the job because of an article I wrote saying that The Hollywood Reporter was catching up with Variety.)
 The Hollywood Reporter scandal was, in fairness, pathetic and hardly on the level of Watergate or Iran-contra. And it wasn't akin to the unfortunate way even more serious journalists are co-opted by the overtures of a Michael Ovitz or the charm of a Joe Roth. Mr. Roth, a top Hollywood player, seems available at any time and is willing to schmooze with eager reporters as if he had all the time in the world.
 Mr. Ovitz went a step or two further. Shortly after I arrived in Hollywood and met him, when he was at his zenith as chairman of the Creative Artists Agency, he offered to help if my children needed to attend private school or if I needed to find a hospital. I never took him up on the offers.
 MY first day here, as I recall it, was in early September 1991. Having just come back from India, I was struck almost immediately by the prevalence of money, and the crazy economic gap between journalists and the people they covered. It was like dropping into Marie Antoinette's France. In Washington, reporters often lived next door to the people they covered. Whatever the income gap between a reporter and a lawyer or lobbyist -- and it's considerable -- your lives intersected. In the neighborhood. On the subway. At private schools. At parties. 
 Journalists in Washington do not feel diminished by their lower salaries. In Hollywood, many do. I did. Waiting for a valet at the Bel-Air Hotel to bring my company-leased Ford, I once stood beside a journalist turned producer who said, ''I used to drive a car like that.'' Though I'm ashamed to say it, I was soon hunting for parking spots near Orso or the Peninsula Hotel to avoid the discomfort of having a valet drive up my leased two-year-old Buick in front of some luncheon companion with a Mercedes.
 For many of us on the press side, the money gap leads to resentment and envy, compounded by a conviction that studio executives and producers are no better or smarter than the journalists who cover them. Initially, I was simply amazed. My first real Hollywood acquaintance was Dawn Steel, a producer and onetime studio chief, and one of the more dynamic figures in town. (Ms. Steel died of a malignant brain tumor in 1997 at the age of 51). Before leaving New York, I was in the office of Warren Hoge, then the editor of the Times Magazine, who said Ms. Steel would open the gates of the movie world for me. He called her on her car cellphone, which was still uncommon enough that I was dazzled. She insisted that I see her as soon as I arrived. I did so. Her house off Coldwater Canyon, behind gates and atop a winding road, was a sprawling, ranch-style home with panoramic views of the city on a huge plot of land. I had never seen a home like this. 
 What made it strange was that Ms. Steel was a girl from Long Island -- smart, funny, neurotic. She had no airs. She and so many others in Hollywood seemed like people I knew. I grew up with them. And yet they earned bizarre amounts of money that lifted them into a different universe. 
 My first reaction was to write about that difference. Early on, for instance, I wrote about movie stars and executives trooping into a specially designed soundstage at Sony for the Hollywood Hunger project to benefit Oxfam America. Instead of simply writing checks, the celebrities sought what the caterer, Ruth Hedges, told me was ''the actual experience of being poor and hungry.'' 
 So the likes of Danny Glover, Jackson Browne, Daryl Hannah, Whoopi Goldberg, Susan Sarandon, David Byrne and Graham Nash drew lots: 15 percent represented high-income countries and dined at fancy tables on stuffed breast of chicken, sun-dried tomatoes and radicchio, and salad with shrimp; 25 percent represented middle-income countries and sat on benches at wooden tables to eat rice and beans and tortillas off paper plates; and the majority, sat on the floor on a mat and had rice and water, as many people in the world do.
 Almost as shocking (at least for me) were the gala events to raise money for ecological causes in the early 1990's. At one such event, 700 of the town's elite (Barbra Streisand, Robert Redford, Ted Danson, Jane Fonda) showed up at a soundstage in Mercedeses, BMW's, stretch limos and other gas guzzlers to celebrate Hollywood's commitment to the environment. The invitations said, ''In the spirit of the event, we urge you to car-pool.'' It didn't appear that anyone did.
 Detachment from the real, I soon learned, was closely bound up in the culture of stardom, and star behavior, alas, has a way of rubbing off on those of us who come in contact. At first, as I now hate to admit, I was fascinated by the idea of meeting movie stars. (After meeting a few, the fascination ended.) Maureen Dowd in Washington made me promise I'd interview Michelle Pfeiffer soon after arriving. As it turned out, she was my first star interview. She was promoting the film ''Frankie and Johnny,'' in which, bizarrely, she was playing a frumpy waitress. 
 I met Ms. Pfeiffer at her office in Century City. I was tongue-tied. She talked about her character's loneliness and how she identified with the waitress. I nodded at whatever Ms. Pfeiffer said. She told me it was a fantasy that beautiful people couldn't look unattractive or weren't lonely or hurt. ''It doesn't matter what you look like or how old you are,'' she said. ''That's not relevant.'' Right. For a moment, I believed it.
 At another point, at the Toronto Film Festival, I rushed through an interview with Billy Bob Thornton and Bill Paxton about their film ''A Simple Plan.'' It was important for the two actors to promote their offbeat film and get an article in The Times. I cut short the interview and said, ''Look, I've got to interview Cameron Diaz.'' The pair were dumbfounded. She was prettier and a rising star. She was more important. The fact that I had hurt the actors and embarrassed myself still rankles. Not a high point but perhaps the beginning of real understanding about a world that obsessively chases what's young, what's new, what has heat.
 My most embarrassing moment in Hollywood was an interview with Jim Carrey that at least absolved me of star fever. The comedian, in a suite at Ma Maison Sofitel, was promoting his film ''The Mask.'' I had taken medicine for a bad cold. The interview began. I was settled into an easy chair, facing Mr. Carrey with my feet crossed in front of me. As he began answering questions, I fell asleep. The next thing I knew, I was feeling somebody kick the bottom of my shoe with his foot. I woke up, mortified. Years later, I met his manager Jimmy Miller. I told Mr. Miller I had a confession: that I fell asleep while interviewing Mr. Carrey. Mr. Miller exclaimed: ''So you're the guy! He talks all the time about a reporter who once fell asleep on him.'' 
 IN 1996, I met Amy Pascal for a business breakfast at the Peninsula Hotel. She had just been named president of Turner Pictures, a new company founded by Ted Turner.
 Not even 18 months later, the company was folded into Time Warner.
 As we began dating, I rationalized that I could avoid any hint of a conflict of interest by avoiding any coverage of Turner Pictures. By the time we were married, the next year, my wife had been appointed chairman of Columbia Pictures. I should have left the movie beat right then, if not sooner. 
 But with the agreement of my editors, who were confident I could deal with the issue, I felt I could continue covering the movie business, avoiding coverage of Columbia and its parent company, Sony, and leaving that to a colleague. It was a delicate balancing act that seemed to work for a while. But I underestimated how closely I would be watched, or how quickly Hollywood would jump on my marriage as way to get an edge in coverage by The New York Times.
 Warner Brothers, once a high-flying studio, was at that time beset by a string of expensive movie flops and its parent company's music operation had a weak track record. With a colleague, Geraldine Fabrikant, I covered the failures at Warner, whose co-chairmen were Robert A. Daly and Terry S. Semel. The two eventually resigned.
 Mr. Daly was furious and told friends and others that I should not write such articles because of my marriage, a view I came to share, though I remain convinced that the coverage was accurate and fair. Soon enough, an article appeared in Brill's Content, a magazine covering the news media, by Lorne Manly (now a reporter for The Times). It said that ''two Hollywood sources'' said Warner had offered my wife a production deal instead of ''the high-ranking job she sought,'' and that ''instead she headed to Sony.'' As I read it, the implication was that The Times's articles were written because I was personally peeved at Warner and not because the studio was experiencing failures like ''The Postman'' and ''Sphere.''
 I wrote to Bill Kovach, the ombudsman for Brill's Content and a former Times Washington bureau chief for whom I had once worked, to complain about what I called the cheap and inept journalism at his magazine, which was itself financed by Barry Diller, George Soros and others. Would the magazine ever write about Mr. Diller or Mr. Soros? I asked in an angry note. Mr. Kovach responded with equal anger. In retrospect, the nastiness of journalists toward The New York Times -- and me -- should have been a warning that this was a losing battle.
 Mr. Ovitz, who began complaining to The Times about my coverage shortly after I arrived, was soon trying to use my marriage as a lever to oust me. He visited The Times after I had written about his troubled management company, which he formed after his dismissal from the Walt Disney Company. At the time Mr. Ovitz was also facing problems because of a failed Broadway investment and a vain effort to start a football franchise. 
 ''What does The New York Times have against me? Mr. Ovitz asked Joseph Lelyveld, then the executive editor, according to New York magazine. ''Your football writer hates me, your theater writer hates me and Bernie Weinraub just killed me.''
 Mr. Lelyveld said: ''What are you talking about? If I got all three writers in a room they wouldn't even know each other.''
 True.
 In a later phone conversation, Mr. Ovitz urged The Times to dismiss me and finally shrieked at Mr. Lelyveld: ''You don't know anything about our business! I can't talk to you!'' 
 In mid-1999, Mr. Lelyveld came to Los Angeles. I began our lunch by saying that I wanted off the movie beat. Not because I was tired of it, but because it was being used as an excuse to attack me and the newspaper I loved. Mr. Lelyveld was visibly relieved. I had saved him from saying it was getting difficult for the newspaper. I asked about covering television and other entertainment. He agreed. 
 IN December 2001, less than three years later, I received a call from Julia Phillips, the once-hot producer of films like ''Taxi Driver'' and ''Close Encounters of the Third Kind,'' who had drifted from center stage in Hollywood long before she wrote her classic tell-all, ''You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again.'' To my regret, I asked her to hold on one minute while I finished on another line. As soon as I returned, Ms. Phillips said: ''I'm dying. And I want an obituary in The New York Times.'' 
 Shortly after arriving in Hollywood, I had met Ms. Phillips late one chilly afternoon at the Polo Lounge at the Beverly Hills Hotel. I wanted to write about her as the author of a slash-and-burn chronicle that detailed the selfishness, duplicity, nastiness and greed of the Hollywood stars and executives she knew in the 1970's and 1980's. The book also revealed her own plunge into cocaine addiction. 
 Ms. Phillips said she was a pariah in town. ''I saw these people for what they were,'' she said. In the years that followed I became friendly with her: she would call me periodically to either congratulate me on an article or criticize me, saying I was naive or had been duped. At dinner at Orso, her favorite restaurant, she was brutally honest about herself and about the Hollywood crowd. ''Don't trust these people,'' she warned me numerous times. ''Don't trust anyone here.''
 I laughed and didn't really believe her. But with time I came to realize that she, more than Dawn Steel, had become my most reliable guide to the ways of what insiders still like to call ''the town.'' 
 Responding to her call, I immediately drove to see her in her apartment looking out onto West Hollywood and, on a clear day, downtown. I said I wanted to tape-record some interviews for an obituary. And I asked if she wanted anything else. Ms. Phillips said she adored George Clooney and would love to see his latest film, ''Ocean's Eleven.'' (Warner Brothers, which had tapes of the film, sent her a copy the next day.) I spent several days visiting and interviewing her.
 Because of her book, Ms. Phillips was an outcast among Hollywood's elite. ''At first it bothered me because I really didn't expect that kind of reaction,'' she said. ''I thought people had a sense of humor. I really did.
 ''Understand, I wasn't a pariah because I was a drug-addicted, alcoholic, rotten person and not a good mother,'' she said. ''I was a pariah because I lit them with a harsh fluorescent light and rendered them as contemptible as they really are.''
 Ms. Phillips died of cancer in the early days of 2002. I went to her funeral service on the rooftop of her apartment building and thought of what she said while dying. Was it an overstatement? I wonder. I'm part of the Hollywood world now. I can't deny it. I drive a Range Rover. I live in Brentwood. Not everyone is contemptible. Perhaps Julia Phillips was wrong. I hope she is.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In their own ways, Dawn Steel, left, Michael Ovitz, Michelle Pfeiffer and Jeffrey Katzenberg each taught the author about Hollywood. (Photo by Steve Goldstein)
(Photo by Lee Celano/Reuters)
(Photo by Fred Prouser/Reuters)
(Photo by Soeren Stache/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
Above, the press stands behind its velvet rope. Far right, the producer Julia Phillips. Below, Cameron Diaz, and above right, Jim Carrey. (Photo by Scott Gries/Getty Images)
(Photo by Lionel Cironneau/Associated Press)
(Photo by Mark Mainz/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Wyatt Counts/Associated Press)(pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (68%) Motion Pictures; News and News Media

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (80%)

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Times

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); JIM CARREY (58%); AMY PASCAL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Bernard Weinraub

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



652 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-30-05: IDEA LAB; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: The New Hard-Soft Power

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is at work on a book about the United Nations.

 BODY:
In his 2002 book, ''The Paradox of American Power,'' Joseph S. Nye Jr., the scholar and former Pentagon official, famously distinguishes between ''hard'' and ''soft'' power. The first is the power to coerce, largely through military might; the second, the power to co-opt through such ''intangible'' factors as culture, values and institutions (the media, churches, schools and so forth). In an era of globalized information, Nye observes, the power to persuade has become almost as important as the power to compel, and he criticizes American policy makers for their single-minded focus on brute force.
 Where, in this taxonomy, do we put the images we saw in recent weeks of United States Navy helicopter pilots aboard the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln ferrying supplies to victims of the tsunami in the Indonesian province of Aceh? Is that hard power with a human face? Soft power in a flak jacket? Whatever it is, it produces an inherently attractive narrative. I arrived in Indonesia 11 days after the disaster hit, and in that day's Jakarta Post, the capital's chief English-language daily, I read a long and reverent profile of the American pilots bearing the headline, ''U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln Enjoys Aceh Humanitarian Mission.'' 
 As the Bush administration tries to blunt the hostility fostered by four years of swaggering belligerence, it should think about reconfiguring Nye's parlor-game-cum-political-theory to its own purposes. We know all too well that this administration does not do soft. Nye himself once told me Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's response to the concept: ''I don't know what 'soft power' is.'' President Bush's chintzy initial response to the tsunami implies that he doesn't know quite what it is either. 
 The problem with the hard-soft dichotomy itself is that it fails to take account of the soft-power potential of military helicopters and aircraft carriers. We live in an era not only of globalized information but also of the nearly $450 billion defense budget. The United States military is now an instrument of absolutely everything -- warfare, diplomacy, social policy, humanitarianism. It just depends how we deploy it. The critical attributes that make the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln an instrument of persuasion rather than of coercion are, first, that it is being put to nonlethal use and, second and no less important, that it is advancing humanitarian ends -- that it is not directly serving American self-interest. ''This was an act of God,'' the Jakarta Post reporter quotes an American serviceman. ''We are here and happy to help.''
 Soft power, in short, need not be squishy soft. And this hard-jacketed form of persuasion may actually be more effective than the classic instruments of soft power, at least as they are embodied in popular culture. Nye argues that, whatever its flaws, our culture projects the core values of ''democracy, personal freedom, upward mobility and openness.'' Well, maybe that's the subtext of ''The Day After Tomorrow'' and ''The Apprentice,'' but you could make at least as good a case that our coarse entertainment products have proved even more frighteningly hegemonic than our military.
 Of course we should have exchange programs and American libraries abroad and all the other tools of public diplomacy. But it will not be easy for even the best expressions of American culture to escape the overwhelming suspicion that now dogs all things American. The same is true, naturally, of humanitarian helicopter missions. But at least these are acts, with an unambiguously positive outcome. And the use of our immense hard power for soft purposes has the additional benefit of humanizing the fierce image inevitably projected by that power: the same military that shocks and awes can also save and heal. 
 This isn't true for only our Armed Forces. Consider the example of Singapore, a tiny country with a small but professional military. While the little Seahawks flying off the deck of the Abraham Lincoln carried modest loads, six giant Chinooks, provided by the Singapore Armed Forces with little fanfare, did a good deal of the heavy lifting: when a cargo plane ran into a water buffalo and blocked the landing strip at Banda Aceh, it was a Chinook that lowered the earth-moving machinery that shoved the plane out of the way. 
 Singapore is, by tradition, a hard-power country, though its stature is not military but economic (which Nye recognizes as a third, autonomous dimension of power). When I stopped off there on my way home, a friend said to me, ''The irony is that Lee Kuan Yew would never have done this.'' The tough-minded former prime minister thought, like Donald Rumsfeld seems to think, that charitable gestures were for sissies. But Lee's very new successor, Lee Hsien Loong, has publicly committed Singapore to the task of rehabilitating the region. 
 The United States will never win as much gratitude as feisty little Singapore. And in the age of global terrorism, our soldiers must always be prepared to fight. At the moment, in fact, the war in Iraq has put a huge strain on our forces. But reducing that commitment will make other choices possible. The need to respond to another epic disaster will not, God willing, come along for a good many years; if we are to continue to deploy our hard-power resources in soft-power settings, it will mostly take the more familiar form of peacekeeping. 
 President Bush arrived in office so profoundly opposed to peacekeeping that he scarcely bothered with post-conflict planning in Iraq. He has, however, lived to rue that decision. And he has not withdrawn American peacekeepers from the ongoing NATO operation in Kosovo. Of course, you can't get much publicity value from an operation scarcely anyone knows about. And in any case peacekeepers can't cure what ails Kosovo in the way that air-dropped medical supplies can solve the immediate problems of Aceh. But I wouldn't simply dismiss the soft-power virtues of peacekeeping.
 Last year I spent a day on patrol with the American contingent in Kosovo. I had been told that the Americans never unshouldered their weapons, doffed their wraparound sunglasses, broke formation and so on. And yet the squad leader, Staff Sgt. Mike Chirdon, a 32-year-old carpenter from Altoona, Pa., passed an hour teaching an impromptu civics class in a school he regularly visited and then hung out in a cafe to glean intelligence from the locals. Neither the Italian nor the French soldiers I also spent time with had anything like the relationship with ordinary people that Chirdon had; he was a wildly popular figure. It occurred to me that peacekeeping might be something to which Americans -- or at least the citizen-soldier reservists who are expected to fulfill these tasks -- might be peculiarly suited. Chirdon certainly had no doubt about the value of the work. ''I don't know how there could be a better mission in the world than this,'' he said. 
 The world is going to be seeing a lot of the American military in the coming years. Shouldn't we want people -- including the American people -- to see our soldiers without their guns or their body armor, to see that they have faces and even feelings? Isn't that worth the price of peacekeeping entanglements? Call me crazy, but I think people like Mike Chirdon constitute a more precious international currency than ''Desperate Housewives.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by John Stanmeyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); HELICOPTERS (73%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); RELIGION (71%); BUDGETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves; Books and Literature; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Earthquakes; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%) James Traub; Joseph S Jr Nye; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%) Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



653 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: How Q Found Her Groove

BYLINE: By JIRO ADACHI. 
Jiro Adachi is the author of the novel ''The Island of Bicycle Dancers.''

 BODY:
HER arm locks like a robot's, then pops from the shoulder, sending a wave through her body. Michael Jackson's ''Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough'' blares from a boombox in the Times Square subway station as a crowd of onlookers, heads bobbing, cheer on the performer. 
 The break dancer is female, which is unusual enough. Even more eye-opening is the fact that she is a 26-year-old Japanese woman with cornrows in Float Committee, the crew of young African-American men with whom she is performing on this day.
 Her solo builds as she glides around the concrete floor, limbs electric, torso fluttering as if from some subterranean wind. In another instant, she is back in line with her crew, grinning and rocking to and fro as sweat pours down her face. 
 To her family in the city of Nagoya, she is Kumi Naito. In her New York life andin the break-dance world, she is simply Q,and a wild departure from the stereotypeof the Japanese immigrant, or issei, thatNew Yorkers have known in the past: the salaryman from a Japanese corporation with a wife in tow. 
 Q also typifies how the Japanese immigrant of today -- young, artistically inclined, open to risks and twice as likely to be female than male -- differs from the bulk of immigrants to New York, who come to take advantage of the city's economic opportunities. 
 These Big Apple Issei, as they could be called, are cultural refugees, drawn to New York's creative clamor and in search of freedom for their spirits. 
 This was certainly true of Q, who is thrilled to be able to pursue her passion for dancing on the streets and in the city's subway stations; she even tours the country and Europe with a professional company. 
 For her, this independence is everything. ''I can't imagine being in Japan,'' she said. ''I couldn't break dance there.''

A Place for Purple Hair
 In the last two decades, thousands of young Japanese like Q have come to New York in search of the custom-tailored lifestyles that are hard to carve out in a homeland, where johshiki -- traditional ways and morality -- still exert a powerful influence. Such young people make up the majority of their fellow countrymen, or rather, countrywomen, living in the city. 
 Census data from 2000 show that 63 percent of the 16,516 foreign-born Japanese living in New York are women, and 64 percent are 20 to 39 years old. That percentage of young people is nearly 23 percentage points higher than it is for Chinese or Koreans, the two largest Asian immigrant groups in the city.
 Hiroko Kazama, who is 42 and came to the city in 1987, said that young Japanese, especially artistic types, come to New York because they find that other American cities are too much like Japan. ''Japanese society doesn't have an understanding for art,'' explained Ms. Kazama, who lives in the East Village and works for City Lore, an urban folklore center on East First Street. ''Traditional art is accepted, but edgy art is not. Hair that's red and purple is hard to accept. Young people are not comfortable with that.'' 
 This is probably an understatement; young Japanese have ample cause for wanting out. As early as fourth grade, many are sent to jukus -- cram schools -- to begin preparing for the country's highly competitive college entrance exams. A child's mother packs up two bento boxes each morning, one for lunch and one for dinner. When the regular school day is over at 3, the children are off to jukus, where they work until 10 p.m.
 University years often provide the only break in a rigid educational regimen, because students need only to do well on final exams to pass their classes. But the rigid life track continues once they graduate from a university or junior college. They are expected to get jobs, working as salarymen or O.L.'s -- office ladies -- where they stay, sometimes for a lifetime. 
 Japan has certainly benefited from this kind of rigor, and perhaps this is why, even with a shrinking population, the country is continually ranked among the top 10 nations in terms of gross domestic product. But for those who remain on the career track, the prospect of ''finding your bliss'' often becomes bleaker with each passing year. Koji Toyama, a photography major at Parsons School of Design who came to New York in 2000 and now lives in Williamsburg, put it simply: ''Young people in Japan don't care about the future.'' 
 Women, especially, encounter stiff obstacles to forging their own path in Japan. Not only do they have a harder time developing professionally in a male-dominated society, they often face harsh judgments if they choose not to become a wife and mother at an early age. 
 ''If you are an unmarried woman older than 25,'' said Jun Takama, a 41-year-old who has lived in New York, mostly in Chelsea, since 1996, ''people refer to you as Niju-go nichi sugita Kurisumasu keiki.'' Translation: you're a Christmas cake, because no one wants you after ''25.''
 Not wanting to be hemmed in by such conventional notions of how to live her life, Ms. Takama has remained in New York, where she finds it easier to pursue her personal and professional interests. She has worked as a hairstylist and wants to set up a cross-cultural consulting service for Japanese women coming to the city. When she spent a year as an O.L. at All Nippon Airways, in an office based at Kennedy Airport, she still felt confined by the strictures of Japan. Although she felt as if she performed better than some of her male colleagues, it seemed to her that they found it easier to move up. 
 Many men she worked with also treated her as if she barely existed, she said. When she arrived at work on a typical morning, for example, the men would already be ensconced in their Yomiuri or Asahi Shimbun newspapers. 
 ''Good morning,'' Ms. Takama trilled, imitating herself as the chipper O.L. arriving just in time to make coffee. ''But the men only respond with a grunt.'' 
 ''When I got my hair cut short,'' she added, ''the only comment I got was 'What are you trying to do, outdo us?'''

The Language of Adaptation
 Simply coming to New York, of course, doesn't guarantee success, and the path to happiness here is as fraught with complications and pitfalls for young Japanese as for any immigrant. And though the first obstacle for many of them is the language barrier, learning English often helps them ease into the city's multicultural stew, and in fact can be a ticket to self-discovery. 
 In English-language classrooms around the city, Big Apple Issei mix with Latin Americans, Africans, Europeans and other Asians. At many private language schools and those attached to universities, Japanese students typically make up about 30 percent of the student body.
 Caitlin Morgan, assistant director of the English language studies department at the New School, has noticed the physical transformations that many Japanese undergo while they are studying English: they change hair colors, get tattoos, acquire multiple piercings, use hair extensions and grow dreadlocks. 
 Even without these extreme changes, the physical changes are visually dramatic. ''The women especially,'' she explained, ''their voices seem to get deeper, they put on a little weight and become fitter, they use less makeup, they become a little realer.''
 ''These foreign explorers,'' she added, ''seem to have an intuitive understanding that in New York, there are rewards to taking creative risks and trying new things.''
 Sometimes, a student's interests become a vehicle for personal change that would have been impossible in Japan. One afternoon, Ms. Morgan was advising a student who was so smitten with hip-hop culture, if you closed your eyes and listened to him talk, you'd have thought you were listening to a black hip-hop artist. 
 ''I always got my rhymes in my head,'' the student said with a grin, hands splayed, '''cause on the mike I gotta sound fly.''
 Learning English also paved the way for 26-year-old Sayuri Tsuchitani, who felt the lure of the city all the way from her rural town of Anabuki on the island of Shikoku. New York, she said, had a ''buzz kind of thing.'' She heard that it was dangerous here, that ''you could get killed.'' And so, she added with a gleam in her eye, ''I wanted to check it out.''
 Attending Rennert Bilingual, a private language school, became the first stop on her road to independence and a job as a hairstylist, a career she had always yearned to pursue. After two years of full-time English study, her language skills were strong enough to allow her to enroll in Libs Beauty School in Midtown. Her defining moment came when she got work as a hairstylist at Damian West, a salon at Waverly Place and 10th Street.
 ''That was my real breakthrough,'' Ms. Tsuchitani said. ''That and having really great, cool clients.''
 She often visited with local musicians and singers who came to the salon and turned her on to the neighborhood's jazz hot spots, like the Village Vanguard and Sweet Basil. As she trimmed hair one afternoon recently, she chatted animatedly about two concerts she attended recently at Irving Plaza -- the metal band, Gwar, and the Afro-European music group, Zap Mama.
 Ms. Tsuchitani now works at a Japanese-owned hair salon, Hair Kuwayama, on East 10th Street. Since 10 percent of the clients are Japanese, the salon needs bilingual employees, and Ms. Tsuchitani finds herself in the position of being an American-trained stylist working with other Big Apple Issei who underwent the more rigorous training that stylists receive in Japan.
 ''They can do anything,'' she said admiringly of her colleagues. ''They blow my mind. I'm learning a lot from them.''

Daifuku Meets Bagel
 While the city has no real Japanese enclave, the largest percentage of them -- 16 percent, according to census data -- live in the Stuyvesant Town-Turtle Bay area. But it is in the East Village that young Japanese are especially visible.
 The area bounded by East Ninth Street, Stuyvesant Street and Second and Third Avenues has become what some call Little Tokyo or J-Town, because it is so easy to get a fix of daifuku, a traditional pastry, and okonomiyaki, an Osakan-style seafood pancake. The venerable Sunrise Mart on East Ninth Street is stocked with Japanese delicacies, groceries and housewares. St. Mark's Place from Third Avenue to Avenue A is home to no fewer than nine Japanese restaurants as well as a new Japanese convenience store.
 Hang around these places for even a little while, and you will see a full range of Big Apple Issei -- reggae punks with dreadlocks tucked into knitted tams the colors of the Jamaican flag, hipsters smoking behind oversized shades, pairs of chatty young women with dainty shopping bags hanging from their arms.
 Despite its flavors of home, Little Tokyo is no Japan. That is exactly the point for cultural refugees like Hanako Shimamoto, 37, who has lived in New York since 1992 and does not miss the constriction of her birthplace. She spends her days as a floral designer at Fantasia, a secret garden of a store on East 74th Street that is nestled on the ground floor of a two-story brick building. She left her native land, she said, because ''in Japan, I could never go beyond my world.''
 Ms. Shimamoto, whose open smile shows no hint of the reserve typical of Japanese women, was born in Kyoto, a city renowned for its traditional beauty and customs, and a place where, Ms. Shimamoto said, ''your neighbor knows everything about you.''
 ''But at the same time,'' she added, ''people don't talk much. They want to hide their emotions.''
 Here in New York, she enjoys the unexpected in her conversations. Because her employers are Catholics, their talks include God and religion, two topics that are conversational taboos in Japan. ''In New York,'' she said, ''you open a door to a different level of being with people.''
 When she was working in Japan at a factory that manufactured dental equipment, Ms. Shimamoto bristled at the routine of going out after work with colleagues for food, drink and small talk. So she went to the gym or took English lessons. Then she got interested in floral design. ''But everyone was getting into it then,'' she said, ''so I decided to come to the States to study.'' 
 She felt an especially strong connection to New York, and took an apartment in Woodside, Queens. Like many New Yorkers, she chose her neighborhood for the affordable rent, but she doesn't hang out there. In her free time, she wanders around Manhattan, particularly the West Village. Her favorite New York delicacy? The bagel, of course. 
 ''It's hard to explain,'' Ms. Shimamoto said with a laugh as she put the finishing touches on a birthday bouquet of yellow, salmon and spray roses. ''But my intuition just told me that this was the right place for me to be.''
 In the end, even New York may not be big enough for some Big Apple Issei. Many aspire to become citizens of the world who can travel, work and live in a variety of locations. They are modern people born of an extremely traditional culture. This koan-like paradox is most clearly evident in the fact that, unlike their predecessors, most of these young Japanese immigrants are not trying to become United States citizens. They like being Japanese; they simply prefer to live in New York.
 So they visit Japan at least once a year. And while they admit that once there, they again feel the claustrophobia of being in a conservative, homogeneous culture, they also relish the comforts of the familiar in the form of family, friends, language, food, and being around people who, unlike many New Yorkers, go out of their way to be polite.
 Q is typical in that she returns to Japan once a year. But when she describes what she does during her stay, she sounds like the New York artist she is: ''I just try to chill.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: PURSUING THEIR ART -- Q at work in the Times Square station, top
Koji Toyama, a photography student, above, and Hanako Shimamoto, at Fantasia florists. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
TIME FOR DINNER -- Shopping for Japanese delicacies at the Sunrise Mart.
AT A CORNER NEAR YOU -- Sayuri Tsuchitani, above, fulfills her dream of being a hairdresser at Hair Kuwayama, on East 10th Street, just outside Little Tokyo, where one young woman, right, enjoyed cotton candy.
 AROUND TOWN -- Young Japanese are often visible around the East Village, among them the man playing African drum in Union Square, below. At right, St. Marks Place, part of what is sometimes called Little Toyko. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); CITY LIFE (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MEN (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); REFUGEES (73%); CITIES (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); STATISTICS (63%); CENSUS (50%) Japanese-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Life Styles; Women

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (73%) Jiro Adachi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%) New York City; East Village (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



654 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: When The G.O.P. Attacks

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
LIKE some blend of attack dog and stand-up comic, the new chairman of the state's Republican Party, Tom Wilson, spends much of his time these days delivering rollicking monologues about the state's Democrats.
 Understatement is also apparently a part of his repertory. After all, commenting recently on Senator Jon S. Corzine's surge in the last two weeks -- grabbing a potent mix of endorsements like particularly low-lying fruit -- Mr. Wilson conceded that ''some momentum has shifted to him.'' 
 Not that it would be an entirely bad thing for the Republicans to have to face a Democratic gubernatorial candidate with nearly limitless financial resources -- or so he insists. To Mr. Wilson -- a cheerfully voluble operative who worked for two former Republican governors, Christie Whitman and Donald DiFrancesco -- Mr. Corzine simply provides a richer source of material. 
 ''No one has given more money over the last five years to a system that is clearly rife with abuse,'' he said. ''He has been the chief financial officer of McGreevey Inc.'' 
 The 37-year-old Bridgewater native, who assumed the top party post after the November election, will be a conspicuous presence -- at least through the Republican primary in June. After that, the party's gubernatorial nominee will get to select a new chairman if he so chooses, meaning that Mr. Wilson could have as little as half a year, essentially, to try to work a political miracle.
 Far from the confident days of Thomas H. Kean's two terms in the 1980's or Ms. Whitman's more tenuous two-term hold of the State House in the 1990's, Mr. Wilson has taken the reins at a time of great weakness for the state's Republicans. Democrats currently hold both United States Senate seats, the governorship and both houses of the State Legislature.
 Whether the Democrats end up nominating Mr. Corzine, which is looking increasingly likely, or acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, for governor this year, the Republican candidate will in all probability enter the contest well behind in money, name recognition and voter registration. The field of potential nominees, as it is currently comprised, consists of two men who have run and lost in statewide races, Douglas Forrester and Bret Schundler, and five relative unknowns. 
 Yet putting the best face on an ominous situation, Mr. Wilson said that it was all a welcome challenge. ''I'm someone who gets excited by the battle,'' he said in an interview in his modest office at party headquarters here. ''To have such a steep hill to climb, and the odds, and the this and the that -- it's a good thing. The more difficult the task, the more satisfying the reward.'' 
 As befits a spokesman for the party out of power, Mr. Wilson was able to argue that the recent period of Democratic hegemony in New Jersey was, in a way, a good thing. 
 ''After eight years in control of everything, we've now had four years in control of nothing,'' he said. ''It tends to clarify one's sense of purpose, and it unifies us in the face of a common enemy. I think now we'll be able to rebuild just like the Democrats did when they were out of power.''
 As Mr. Wilson's 15-year involvement with Republican politics demonstrates, he is one of those inexplicable types for whom the means is far more gratifying than the end -- a campaign addict with little interest in actual governance. 
 Mr. Wilson, the son of a liberal-leaning, small-town doctor and a nurse, worked as a summer intern for Republicans in the New Jersey Assembly while he was a student at the University of Vermont. He met his future wife, Lysa Israel, who is also a political consultant, while working on Assembly campaigns in 1989. Since then, he has flitted back and forth between campaigns and political consulting, working along the way for Bob Franks, a former representative; Chuck Haytaian, a former state party chairman; and Mrs. Whitman -- all the while raising two youngsters at home in Somerset County. 
 In 1997, he ran Mrs. Whitman's campaign for re-election and, after successfully -- though narrowly -- completing that mission, he joined the Strategy Group, a prominent consulting and lobbying firm. He jumped back on the public payroll in 2001, when he briefly served as communications director for Mr. DiFrancesco, the Senate president who was acting governor at the time. 
 Interestingly, Mr. Wilson also briefly served under Mr. Codey, who as Senate president took over as acting governor from Mr. DiFrancesco for three and a half days. Mr. Wilson still keeps a signed picture of Mr. Codey in his desk, and said that he hears from him periodically. The most recent call from the acting governor came after Mr. Wilson was elected chairman by the party committee on Nov. 30 -- to ask him ''why on earth'' he took the job.
 To at least some of Mr. Wilson's associates, though, his latest career move makes perfect sense. 
 ''I suspect that Tom will take to this job as a fish takes to water,'' said Rick Thigpen, a Democratic consultant and Mr. Wilson's partner at the Strategy Group. ''I think he's totally comfortable in that kind of environment. He just knows the nuts and bolts very well.''
 Mr. Thigpen, who described his colleague as a progressive and smart ''for a Republican,'' predicted that Mr. Wilson would have some success expanding the party's attractiveness ''beyond capitalizing on suburban anger and resentment,'' and would bring ''significant focus and energy to a party that's in disarray.''
 Still, Mr. Thigpen predicted, the new chairman would have his work cut out for him. 
 ''I don't think they're going to win right away,'' he said, referring to both the governor's race and the Assembly contests in November. ''I think Tom's got a daunting proposition. And he's going to have to succeed quickly in making a mark.''
 In preparation for his stint at the party, Mr. Wilson detached himself from his other commitments. That may be just as well: in addition to giving up his place at the consulting firm, it also brings to an end a sometimes uncomfortable tenure as a board member of the state's Economic Development Authority, which oversees job-creation activities. 
 In 2004, the last of a four-year term to which he was appointed by Mr. DiFrancesco, Mr. Wilson voted in favor of a plan by the McGreevey administration to borrow against future cigarette taxes to balance the budget. The maneuver was denounced by many Republicans as an example of the very fiscal irresponsibility by Democrats that it is now Mr. Wilson's job to condemn.
 ''It was an opportunity to stand up and make a stand that, in all honesty, I didn't take because I have partners who didn't need to be subject to any harassment over it,'' he explained. ''I regret it deeply.''
 Now out of the business of governing, Mr. Wilson will be able to turn his attention to repairing the state Party. His first order of business, he said, would be to try to change what has become a dynamic of recent Republican primaries: candidates savaging each other.
 ''I'd say that in the past, there's been a tendency to focus on what divides us rather than what unites us,'' he said. ''So what I've sort of said to these candidates is, 'I'll make you the following deal: from now until, say, May 1, let's spend our time talking about the Democrats and what their party has done to New Jersey for the last three years. Then in the last month, if you guys want to talk about each other, fine. Just continue to talk about legitimate policy difference, not personality issues, let's keep it above board.'''
 Mr. Wilson actually said he hoped to pattern the primary after the Democratic presidential campaign last year in which a large and disparate field directed much of its criticism at the Bush administration. 
 ''It was good for them, because it gave them all these messengers who were out there attracting attention, repeating a message that was relatively consistent: 'George Bush and the Republicans have been bad for America,''' he said. ''To have six or seven candidates doing that now for the next five or six months isn't going to be bad for us -- it's going to help us.''
 Of course, Mr. Wilson's memory of last year's Democratic presidential race is somewhat selective: the turning point of that primary was in the Iowa caucuses, where Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont and Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri mortally wounded each other and essentially handed the nomination to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. 
 With the Republican field in New Jersey as wide open as it is this year, the expectation that the candidates will voluntarily hold their fire, even for a limited time, is highly optimistic. But Mr. Wilson's prescription for electoral success goes beyond the notion of an intra-party truce. 
 He also said that the Republicans would have to make the election more ''about ideas'' than they had in recent years, though -- being a neutral chairman of state party that includes some of the most liberal and conservative Republicans in the country -- he was necessarily vague as to what those ideas should actually be.
 His real enthusiasm seemed to be in discussing the particulars of how his party could set about emulating the recent successes of the Democrats, who Mr. Wilson simultaneously condemned and admired.
 ''When they lost everything a decade ago, a handful of chiefs on their side got together and figured out a long-term rebuilding plan that was very much like a business plan,'' he said, warming to his monologue. ''They looked at each little governmental unit as a business operating unit that could be acquired, at some cost, and then used to fuel profits that would acquire another operating unit. They imported dollars from other areas that were safe all around the state to grow and build their local organizations.'' 
 By the time he got around to the particulars of recent Democratic victories in local races in Bergen and Essex counties, Mr. Wilson was fairly shouting at his one-person audience.
 ''Look at this last election in Bergen County, where the county Democrats spent somewhere around $6 million to defeat a sheriff,'' he said. ''A sheriff! No disrespect to the 21 county sheriffs, but those people must have felt really strongly about the state of affairs in the sheriff's office.''
 But that was O.K.,, Mr. Wilson concluded.
 ''It's just the swing of the pendulum,'' he said. ''It'll swing back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Wilson keeps a cardboard cutout of President Bush in his Trenton office. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); DOGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: THOMAS J WILSON (91%); JON CORZINE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Tom Wilson; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



655 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Taxes, Social Security And Blogs at G.O.P. Retreat

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va., Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Republican members of the House and Senate turned their attention to the politics of changing the tax code and the lessons of President Bush's campaign on Saturday, the second day of a party retreat here. 
 Party leaders and White House officials who gathered at the Greenbrier resort also discussed a new rhetorical twist in their campaign to remake Social Security. In meetings on Friday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Representative Bill Thomas of California, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, discussed redirecting public attention on 2008 as an imminent danger point for the Social Security trust fund because baby boomers will begin retiring, people present said. Even the most dire analyses say the fund will remain solvent for a decade or longer after that. 
 House Republicans heard a report on Saturday from the National Republican Congressional Committee on the potential politics of changing the tax system, saying that there was broad support for ''simplification,'' but not for a flat tax, a national sales tax or abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, people familiar with the report said. Members also discussed potential opposition to the alternative minimum tax, Congressional aides said.
 Relatively few Americans are wealthy enough to owe the tax now, but the House Republicans emphasized that inflation would gradually extend the tax to more people, and called it a ''ticking tax time bomb,'' aides said.
 In a possible sign of what to expect in 2006, Republican senators heard presentations about the strengths and weaknesses of Mr. Bush's presidential campaign and about how to reach blacks, Hispanics, Jews and blue-collar workers, groups not traditionally drawn to the Republican Party, people present said. The sessions were closed to journalists.
 The presentations underscored the effectiveness of Mr. Bush's appeals to those groups on public expressions of faith, traditional values and especially the issue of marriage, including opposition to same-sex marriage, aides said. 
 In another presentation, Senator John Thune of South Dakota introduced senators to the meaning of ''blogging,'' explaining the basics of self-published online political commentary and arguing that it can affect public opinion.
 The House members also discussed immigration, one person present said, reiterating that adding measures to tighten border security should precede discussion of Mr. Bush's proposed guest-worker program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); POLITICS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); SALES TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); IMMIGRATION (65%); WRITERS (63%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (62%); MARRIAGE (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Taxation; Social Security (US); Minorities (US); Blacks; Jews; Hispanic-Americans; Computers and the Internet; United States Politics and Government; Election Issues ; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN THUNE (79%) David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Thune; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



656 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Class Issues; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: TV's Busby Berkeley Moment

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
IN its so-called Golden Age, television served as a kind of social training film; sitcoms like ''Father Knows Best'' or ''Leave It to Beaver'' taught Americans emerging from World War II how to be middle-class.
 These days, reality television is instructional in an atavistic way: the focus is less and less on the middle class and more on the wealthiest 1 percent at the top and the masses of striving people at the bottom. 
 It cannot be a good omen for the American economy that the most compelling reality shows echo the class tension and overnight success fantasies of movies produced in, or set in, the Great Depression. But the unquenchable appeal of ''The Apprentice'' and ''American Idol'' lies at least in part in their poignancy: both series combine the preposterous feel-good optimism of ''42nd Street'' with the desperation of ''They Shoot Horses, Don't They?'' 
 Economic disparity was always at the heart of NBC's ''The Apprentice,'' a reality show that allows would-be tycoons to compete for a job in Donald Trump's company, spurred on by tantalizing samplings of his plutocratic lifestyle (helicopter rides, polo matches and visits to his luxury penthouse). The series, of course, is one large product placement for its host. (''My name is Donald Trump. You know everything about me.'') But the gimmick introduced this season makes the current mood all the more clear. Instead of pitting men against women, Mr. Trump divides his contestants between those who went to college and those who didn't: ''street smarts vs. book smarts.''
 It's an appealing conceit, though a slightly phony one -- the rough-hewn no-college candidates selected for the show are worth three times as much in real life as their better-educated rivals. (The richer, less educated aspirants choose the name, ''Net Worth Corporation.'') These days, however, statistics point in an opposite and gloomier direction: According to the United States Census Bureau, adults age 18 and over with advanced degrees in 2002 earned $72,824; bachelor's degree-holders, $51,194; high school graduates, $27,280; and nongraduates, $18,826.
 What does ring true is class resentment. The self-made contestants are bitterly aware of their rivals' sense of entitlement. The college graduates seem blissfully unaware of their privilege.
 And glimpses of the divide between the classes were the most striking moments in the season premiere. It opened with Mr. Trump being hailed by a crowd of admirers outside Trump Towers as if he were the ruler of Turkmenistan, tossing coins at the supplicant peasants in front of his palace. As Mr. Trump was mobbed by his fans, the camera pulled back for a more distant Busby Berkeley shot. (''I have a skyscraper -- let's put on a show.'') 
 The most vivid scene took place in a Midtown Burger King outlet: the teams were instructed to race to see who could best sell a new kind of fast-food burger. John, the project leader of the Net Worth Corporation, who has a Vince Vaughn, old-school charm, tries to rally the fast food restaurant's regular employees to his reality-show cause like a latter-day Norma Rae. ''All those numbskulls down the street -- they have doctorates, M.B.A.'s, Harvard, crazy educations,'' he says to a row of baffled young African-American and Hispanic women in Burger King hats and aprons. ''I don't think I need to tell you, they think they are better than we are.''
 It was a classic movie moment, except that in reality, the apprentices move on to the next task -- renovating a seaside motel -- while their working-class comrades behind the counter are still at Burger King, doling out Whoppers.
 Class tension is hardly a new theme in comedy. From Moliere to P.G. Wodehouse, jokes have centered around the wily servant who outwits his complacent master. And American television has always championed the social underdog -- from the Clampetts in ''The Beverly Hillbillies'' to Fran Drescher's character in ''The Nanny.''
 The only difference now is that reality shows have usurped attention away from sitcoms to set the tone. ''Wife Swap'' on ABC and ''Trading Spouses'' on Fox are reality shows that makes a rich mom switch places with a less fortunate one. ''Supernanny'' and ''Nanny 911'' are variations on the same theme -- servants are smarter than their pampered employers. 
 Cosmetic surgery shows like ''The Swan'' are passe; the hotter trend is making an economic miracle come true. Witness ABC's tear-jerking ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' in which, each week, a desperately needy family gets a new house.
 The focus on money over grooming makes sense. The economy may be rebounding slightly, but American confidence does not seem to be quite as buoyant -- other factors, like the war, the deficit, and a President intent on altering Social Security, keep chipping away at inner peace. Why else would poker and casino gambling have such explosive appeal right now? 
 And the contrast between the haves and have-nots is drawn all the more sharply, even cartoonishly. Brian, an Irish Joe Pesci who was chosen as project manager in Thursday's episode of ''The Apprentice,'' was so coarse and abrasive (his every second word was bleeped out) that his main purpose on the show seemed to be as a foil to the host: next to him, Mr. Trump looks reticently genteel and patrician.
 ''The Apprentice'' is, of course, a companion piece to ''American Idol,'' which in its fourth season is more popular than ever. Together, the two shows represent the intersecting loops of American ambition: people either want to be show business celebrities or tycoons, and in this society, either is a little bit of both. Mr. Trump has kept his real estate fortune aloft on a cloud of movie-star glitz and publicity; musicians like P. Diddy, a k a Sean Combs, anchor their fame to fortunes in the retail industry.
 And that confusion could explain why, this year, some of the would-be pop stars could have just as easily auditioned for ''The Apprentice.'' Sundeep Achreja, a stately, 28-year-old Indian-born accountant who sang ''Eye of the Tiger'' from the ''Rocky'' movie for his audition in a dark suit and yellow power tie, seemed to be seeking the boardroom more than the green room. ''Performance-wise, I think I can bring it to the table,'' he tells a backstage ''American Idol'' camera crew. He couldn't. ''The calculator beckons,'' Simon Cowell said to dismiss him. ''It's a no.''
 Like ''The Apprentice,'' the Fox series has proved enduring, no matter how unvarying the format or how similar the candidates and their pop tunes. There is something hypnotic about watching ordinary people expose themselves so rawly in pursuit of a better life. 
 In the 1930's, desperate people danced for a chance at fame and fortune in dance marathons. The only difference now is they can do it on television.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruby Keeler in ''42nd Street.'' Luck and making it big are prime television themes. (Photo by Museum of Modern Art)(pg. 1)
 Book smart: Alex in ''The Apprentice.'' Street smart: Audrey, a rival. (Photographs by Kevin T. Gilbert/Blue Pixel)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); STATISTICS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); POLO (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%); WORLD WAR II (57%); HELICOPTERS (50%); CENSUS (50%) Television; Television; Television; Motion Pictures; Great Depression (1930's)

COMPANY: KRAUSE'S FURNITURE INC (63%); UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (88%) Alessandra Stanley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TURKMENISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



657 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: The Doctrine That Never Died

BYLINE: By Tom Wolfe. 
Tom Wolfe is the author, most recently, of ''I Am Charlotte Simmons.''

 BODY:
SURELY some bright bulb from the Council on Foreign Relations in New York or the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton has already remarked that President Bush's inaugural address 10 days ago is the fourth corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. No? So many savants and not one peep out of the lot of them? Really?
 The president had barely warmed up: ''There is only one force of history that can break the reign of hatred and resentment, and expose the pretensions of tyrants and that is the force of human freedom. The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands. America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one'' when -- bango! -- I flashed back 100 years and 47 days on the dot to another president. George W. Bush was speaking, but the voice echoing inside my skull -- a high-pitched voice, an odd voice, coming from such a great big hairy bear of a man -- was that of the president who dusted off Monroe's idea and dragged it into the 20th century. 
 ''The steady aim of this nation, as of all enlightened nations,'' said the Echo, ''should be to strive to bring ever nearer the day when there shall prevail throughout the world the peace of justice. Tyrants and oppressors have many times made a wilderness and called it peace. The peace of tyrannous terror, the peace of craven weakness, the peace of injustice, all these should be shunned as we shun unrighteous war. The right of freedom and the responsibility for the exercise of that right cannot be divorced.''
 Theodore Roosevelt! -- Dec. 4, 1904, announcing to Congress the first corollary to the Monroe Doctrine -- an item I had deposited in the memory bank and hadn't touched since I said goodbye to graduate school in the mid-1950's!
 In each case what I was hearing was the usual rustle and flourish of the curtains opening upon a grandiloquent backdrop. But if there was one thing I learned before departing academe and heading off wayward into journalism, it was that these pretty preambles to major political messages, all this solemn rhetorical throat-clearing -- the parts always omitted from the textbooks as superfluous -- are inevitably what in fact gives the game away.
 Theodore Roosevelt's corollary to President James Monroe's famous doctrine of 1823 proclaimed that not only did America have the right, a la Monroe, to block European attempts to re-colonize any of the Western Hemisphere, it also had the right to take over and shape up any nation in the hemisphere guilty of ''chronic wrongdoing'' or uncivilized behavior that left it ''impotent,'' powerless to defend itself against aggressors from the Other Hemisphere, meaning mainly England, France, Spain, Germany and Italy.
 The immediate problem was that the Dominican Republic had just reneged on millions in European loans so flagrantly that an Italian warship had turned up just off the harbor of Santo Domingo. Roosevelt sent the Navy down to frighten off the Italians and all other snarling Europeans. Then the United States took over the Dominican customs operations and debt management and by and by the whole country, eventually sending in the military to run the place. We didn't hesitate to occupy Haiti and Nicaragua, either.
 Back in 1823, Europeans had ridiculed Monroe and his doctrine. Baron de Tuyll, the Russian minister to Washington, said Americans were too busy hard-grabbing and making money to ever stop long enough to fight, even if they had the power, which they didn't. But by the early 1900's it was a different story.
 First there was T.R. And then came Senator Henry Cabot Lodge. In 1912 Japanese businessmen appeared to be on the verge of buying vast areas of Mexico's Baja California bordering our Southern California. Lodge drew up, and the Senate ratified, what became known as the Lodge Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. The United States would allow no foreign interests, no Other Hemispheroids of any description, to give any foreign government ''practical power of control'' over territory in This Hemisphere. The Japanese government immediately denied having any connection with the tycoons, and the Baja deals, if any, evaporated.
 Then, in 1950, George Kennan, the diplomat who had developed the containment theory of dealing with the Soviet Union after the Second World War, toured Latin America and came away alarmed by Communist influence in the region. So he devised the third corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. The Kennan Corollary said that Communism was simply a tool of Soviet national power. The United States had no choice, under the mandates of the Monroe Doctrine, but to eradicate Communist activity wherever it turned up in Latin America by any means necessary, even if it meant averting one's eyes from dictatorial regimes whose police force did everything but wear badges saying Chronic Wrongdoing.
 The historian Gaddis Smith summarizes the Lodge and Kennan Corollaries elegantly and economically in ''The Last Years of the Monroe Doctrine, 1945-1993.'' Now, Gaddis Smith was a graduate-schoolmate of mine and very much a star even then and has remained a star historian ever since. So do I dare suggest that in this one instance, in a brilliant career going on 50 years now, that Gaddis Smith might have been wrong? that 1945 to 1993 were not the last years of the Monroe Doctrine? that the doctrine was more buff and boisterous than it has ever been 10 days ago, Jan. 20, 2005?
 But before we go forward, let's take one more step back in time and recall the curious case of Antarctica. In 1939 Franklin Roosevelt authorized the first official United States exploration of the South Pole, led by Admiral Richard E. Byrd. The expedition was scientific -- but also military. The Japanese and the Germans were known to be rooting about in the ice down there, as were the Russians, the British, the Chileans, the Argentines, all of them yapping and stepping on one another's heels. Gradually it dawned on the whole bunch of them: at the South Pole the hemispheres got awfully narrow. In fact, there was one point, smaller than a dime, if you could ever find it, where there were no more Hemispheres at all. Finally, everybody in essence just gave up and forgot about it. It was so cold down there, you couldn't shove a shell into the gullet of a piece of artillery or a missile into a silo.
 Ah, yes, a missile. On the day in November 1961, when the Air Force achieved the first successful silo launching of an intercontinental ballistic missile, the SM-80, the Western Hemisphere part of the Monroe Doctrine ceased to mean anything at all -- while the ideas behind it began to mean everything in the world. 
 At bottom, the notion of a sanctified Western Hemisphere depended upon its separation from the rest of the world by two vast oceans, making intrusions of any sort obvious. The ICBM's -- soon the Soviet Union and other countries had theirs -- shrank the world in a military sense. Then long-range jet aircraft, satellite telephones, television and the Internet all, in turn, did the job socially and commercially. By Mr. Bush's Inauguration Day, the Hemi in Hemisphere had long since vanished, leaving the Monroe Doctrine with -- what? -- nothing but a single sphere which is to say, the entire world. 
 For the mission -- the messianic mission! -- has never shrunk in the slightest which brings us back to the pretty preambles and the solemn rhetorical throat-clearing the parts always omitted from the textbooks as superfluous. ''America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one,'' President Bush said. He added, ''From the day of our founding, we have proclaimed that every man and woman on this earth has rights, and dignity, and matchless value, because they bear the image of the maker of heaven and earth.''
 David Gelernter, the scientist and writer, argues that ''Americanism'' is a fundamentally religious notion shared by an incredibly varied population from every part of the globe and every conceivable background, all of whom feel that they have arrived, as Ronald Reagan put it, at a ''shining city upon a hill.'' God knows how many of them just might agree with President Bush -- and Theodore Roosevelt -- that it is America's destiny and duty to bring that salvation to all mankind.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Sunday about President Bush's inauguration speech misstated part of the history of intercontinental ballistic missiles. The silo launching of a solid-fuel SM-80 Minuteman missile in November 1961 was not the first of an ICBM; a less practical liquid-fuel Titan missile was launched from a silo earlier that year. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alexander Isley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); TERRORISM (69%) United States Politics and Government; Inaugurations; United States International Relations; Monroe Doctrine; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Tom Wolfe; George W (Pres) Bush; Theodore (1858-1919) Roosevelt; Henry Cabot (1850-1924) Lodge; George F Kennan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005



658 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 2; Television; COVER STORY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Fidel Castro's Ascendance Interpreted By an Exile

BYLINE: By Robin Pogrebin

 BODY:
ADRIANA BOSCH remembers asking her father to take her to the Santiago airport in Cuba when she was 4 years old so that she could see Fidel Castro get off the plane from Havana after the Cuban Revolution. She stood at the foot of the stairs, and when Castro descended he picked her up and kissed her for the cameras.
 Ms. Bosch left Cuba a decade later. Her father, who worked in the cattle business, had lost all his property. Several family friends had wound up in jail. 
 Now, at 49, after years of working on documentary films about the likes of Ulysses S. Grant, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and the Churchills, Ms. Bosch has for the first time turned her attentions toward home. 
 ''Fidel Castro,'' an ''American Experience'' presentation written, directed and produced by Ms. Bosch, is to be broadcast tomorrow night at 9 on PBS.
 ''It wasn't easy,'' Ms. Bosch said in a telephone interview from Miami. ''I really wanted to have at least a raw understanding of what I felt. I wanted to get to the bottom of how I saw it, even though that wasn't going to drive the film.''
 The documentary chronicles Castro's rise from rebellious youth to revolutionary. Because of her personal experiences as a Cuban, Ms. Bosch said, she was careful to incorporate differing views on Castro's impact on her homeland. ''It's a mixed bag,'' she said. ''There were people who were ecstatic, people who gained tremendously. I remember how elated one woman was when she could move to Havana with her daughter for medical school. I also remember a neighbor who went to the country to buy meat and was put in jail for 10 years because it was considered contraband.''
 ''I remember the excitement around the neighborhood when the Bay of Pigs happened --finally, the Americans are coming -- and the disappointment,'' she continued. ''So you begin to see a tapestry of experiences that are contrasting.''
 On this level, Ms. Bosch said, she believes the film is fair. ''It takes two almost conflicted narratives -- of the Cuban exile and the revolution -- and uses them to complement each other,'' she said.
 The series's producers were similarly wary of trying to render a clear-cut verdict on Castro. ''We were very attentive to the tone of this film,'' said Mark Samels, executive producer of ''American Experience.'' ''We wanted to give Fidel credit where it was due: the spending on education and health care, creating a more equal society. But we also wanted to point out the dark side -- the failures, the cruelty -- to get it right and not have it colored by any agenda.''
 ''For people looking for an easy take -- a good guy/bad guy, white hat/black hat -- it's not an easy answer,'' he continued. ''And that's what's fascinating.''
 ''Fidel Castro'' represents the first time ''American Experience'' has presented a biography of a non-American. This was partly to reach into the Latino market, Mr. Samels said: ''Whether in Cuba or Nicaragua or Costa Rica or Mexico, Castro is a point of reference.'' At the same time, he said, the documentary is directed at people with perhaps only a cursory or impressionistic knowledge of the Cuban leader. ''This is very much for a mainstream American audience who knows the name Fidel Castro,'' Mr. Samels said. ''This is meant to play in Des Moines and Portland, Ore.'' 
 In addition to Ms. Bosch's personal interest in Cuba, she was fascinated by Castro as a character -- both brilliant and destructive. ''It does play as a tragedy,'' she said. ''Cuba was always obsessed with the idea of revolution. The word 'revolution' was always mythical, and Castro came to embody that.''
 ''But there was a price paid,'' she said. ''One-tenth of the population in exile; stories of human rights violations; the Cuban economy hasn't performed.''
 Ms. Bosch's family settled in Elizabeth, N.J., after leaving Cuba in 1970. Her father became a butcher and her mother went to work in an organ factory. She received her bachelor's degree from Rutgers University and a Ph.D. in international affairs from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. She could have made Cuba her specialty; her doctoral dissertation was on Central America. But she decided against it. ''I wanted to go beyond being a Cuban,'' she said. ''Professionally, I wanted to be American.''
 The film features childhood friends of Castro, fellow revolutionaries who joined him in the mountains, government colleagues and biographers. Ms. Bosch plumbed international archives to find fresh images. 
 She tried to return to Cuba to conduct interviews -- with Castro's brother, sister-in-law, secretary and translator, among others. ''As a documentarian, I like to give everyone the opportunity to put their best foot forward and let the chips fall where they may,'' she said. ''The facts speak for themselves.''
 ''It's always a pipe dream in a closed society to think you are going to get those voices, something revealing,'' she continued. ''But you never know.''
 The government refused her. Ms. Bosch said she was not surprised. ''Secrets are secrets, and I don't think we were going to find anything out,'' she said. ''I don't think it's a question of revelations. I think the documentary's strength is in interpretation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top: Fidel Castro speaking at the Karl Marx Theater in Havana on Sept. 9, 2002. Above: Adriana Bosch, the film's writer, director and producer. (Photo by WGBH)
(Photo by Associated Press/Cristobal Herrera)(pg. 4)
Clockwise from top left: Mr. Castro (center) with his comrades in July 1953
in a tank at the Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961
arriving at Giron, near the Bay of Pigs, the same month
with captains of the guerrilla army, including his brother, Raul (kneeling in front), in June 1957
and with Che Guevara on Feb. 4, 1960. (Photo by Corbis)
(Photo by Agence France-Presse/Prensa Latina)
(Photo by Associated Press -- Granma/Raul Corrales)
(Photo by Associated Press/Bohemia Magazine)(pg. 5)
 On the cover: Fidel Castro during the march to Havana on Jan. 24, 1959. (Photo by Corbis)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (63%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (56%) Television

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (94%); JIMMY CARTER (54%) Robin Pogrebin; Adriana Bosch; Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005



659 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 2.45 percent. 
The rate on the six-month issue was 2.70 percent, and the four-week issue's was 2.08 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
 Horry County, S.C., School District, $70 million of refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Illinois, $75 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Chaffey Joint Union High School District, Ontario, Calif., $50 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
 City of Detroit, $105 million of water revenue and fixed-rate bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank & Company.
 City of Lafayette, La., $67.2 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 Illinois Housing Development Authority, $50 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS.
 New York Environmental Facility Corporation, $138 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $561 million of debt securities for Mental Health Services. UBS. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (69%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); RY (TSX) (69%); RY (SWX) (69%); RY (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



660 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Purple Fingers in Sadr City

BYLINE: By Bartle Breese Bull. 
Bartle Breese Bull has reported from Iraq for The Financial Times, the BBC and The Telegraph of London.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
DEMOCRACY won in a landslide yesterday here in Sadr City, the epicenter of Iraqi politics. Iraq's Shiites outnumber its Sunni Arabs by five to one, and when they rise up, this Baghdad slum is where they do it. Yesterday they rose up again, but this time it was with ballots, not with guns. 
 Mortar shells rained down on the ghetto at the beginning and end of the voting day, sporadic gunfire rattled through the smog, and at least one car bomb rounded out the predictable symphony of violence. But inside the Martyr Primary School, which was transformed for a day into Polling Station No. 119011, there were long lines of young men in Real Madrid and Lazio soccer jerseys, women in black body coverings, old tribesmen from the deserts and marshes in ankle-length dusty robes. 
 I watched people slide their ballots into the clear plastic boxes and dip their forefingers in the purple ink (to help poll workers combat fraud). In the afternoon I walked for a few miles and spoke with dozens of adults. About four-fifths told me they had voted, showing off their inky fingers. 
 Of course, there are always doubters. Many observers will say that because turnout among Sunni Arabs was low, their underrepresentation in the new government will undermine the election's legitimacy. Iraq's violence is a Sunni phenomenon, and fears of violence at the polling stations were especially strong in Sunni cities like Ramadi and Falluja, mixed municipalities like Mosul, and Sunni neighborhoods in Baghdad. I have a friend named Sohair Chalabi, a 55-year old economist from Mosul, who was one of the Sunni Arabs too frightened to vote. A month ago he found his name on a list pinned to the door of a local mosque, with a note saying that those on it would be killed if they continued to participate in the electoral process. He has since fled to Baghdad, and two of the other nine people on the list have been killed. 
 Yet when I asked him what he thought of elections in which he and much of his community had been unable to vote, he said, ''it's not a big problem. The real election is at the end of this year.'' He is right. Yesterday's vote was the first stage in a sophisticated, yearlong constitutional process that leaves plenty of flexibility for the challenges created by Iraq's combination of disorder and identity-based politics. 
 Iraqis are scheduled to go to the national polls twice more this year: in October for a referendum on the permanent constitution that the new assembly is charged with writing, and again in December to elect a new government under the rules of that constitution. Each of the country's three main groups -- Kurds, Sunni Arabs and Shiites -- has a veto over the permanent constitution. And each enjoys a de facto veto as well: not one is strong enough to impose majoritarian misrule on the others. 
 It would be blatantly against Shiite and Kurdish interests for either group to try to take advantage of any Sunni parliamentary underrepresentation. They have been waiting centuries for this opportunity, and the last thing they want is to make their country ungovernable. 
 Federalism, enshrined in the interim constitution, is another safety valve. ''Regional autonomy will not tear Iraq apart,'' said Ahmad Chalabi, the clever Shiite politician who, although now disowned by the Americans who long sponsored him, will be a central figure in the new government. ''It is the only way to keep it together.'' 
 More important, it is not likely that yesterday's low turnout among Sunnis will lead to their dramatic underrepresentation in the Assembly. The latest estimates put Sunni Arabs at a little less than 13 percent of Iraq's population. Yet there were 50 to 60 Sunni Arabs in viably high slots on yesterday's ballots -- even if just 40 Sunnis are elected, that would be 15 percent of the 275-seat assembly. 
 The candidate list compiled by the Shiite religious leadership, the United Iraqi Alliance, had 11 Sunni Arabs from Mosul alone, as well as the head of Iraq's largest Sunni tribe. Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's secular list also had many Sunnis. So did the lists of the monarchists, Socialists, Communists and others. And now the betting is that a Sunni will be named to head one of the big three ministries in the new government: foreign, defense or interior. Sunnis will also likely get a vice presidency of the state and the presidency of the Assembly.
 None of this is by accident. Car bombs might make headlines, but the real politics in Iraq is about something much deeper than the fanaticism of the country's 5,000 or 10,000 terrorists. The people who are going to run Iraq are profoundly pragmatic.
 The Kurdish leaders in the valleys of the north, the Shiite Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani in the alleys of Najaf, the radical Shiite Moktada al-Sadr in his hiding place -- all understand what they have achieved over the last two years. By showing great restraint toward one another's communities and a spectacular patience with the necessary evil of American occupation, they have woven together the long, improbable, unfinished carpet of an Iraqi future.
 This attitude of restraint is echoed on the street. A 34-year-old Shiite engineer I met in Sadr City last week told me, ''If we had wanted revenge on the Sunnis, we would have taken it in 2003.'' Soldiers in Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army told me that their leader has sent them to pray with Sunnis and to provide security at their mosques. And the widespread campaign of Sunni extremist violence against Shiites has been met with deafening forbearance.
 Iraq as a nation never rose up against the occupation, and after yesterday it does not need to. Iraqis have just elected the only legitimate government between Istanbul and New Delhi. The prestige and moral force of popular representation cannot be denied, even by Washington. When the Iraqi government tells the Americans to leave, they will not be able to stay. Whether a little too soon or a little too late, this is the way it is supposed to be. 
 I write this from a rundown house in the poorest slum in the Middle East. Until yesterday, my hosts and neighbors had for three decades been among the most repressed people on earth. Yet when I walk out the door, I see a city smothered in posters and banners from a hundred political parties. Like Afghanistan last year, the country has endorsed the right to vote in percentages that shame the electoral apathy of the rich world. Let nobody tell you that this election was anything but real. Iraq's Baathists and Wahhabis may continue to bark, but this caravan is moving on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%) Elections; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Kurds; Legislatures and Parliaments; Terrorism

PERSON: Bartle Breese Bull

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq; Sadr City (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



661 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Catskill Casino Politics: Game of Delicate Balance

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Clint Halftown, a leader of the Cayuga Indian Nation of New York, sent a letter to Gov. George E. Pataki on Dec. 31, saying his tribe was scuttling the planned settlement of a hard-fought land claim only six weeks after it had been signed and ending the tribe's relationship with a casino development company in the Catskill Mountains.
 Mr. Halftown's letter stunned everyone involved in the land-claim and casino negotiations. Elected officials, lobbyists and the developers scrambled to shore up the deal, part of a complex set of negotiations that Governor Pataki hoped will finally resolve most of the state's outstanding Indian claims to hundreds of thousands of acres and allow the construction of at least three, and as many as five, Las Vegas-style casinos in the Catskills.
 Within a few days, another Cayuga leader, Gary Wheeler, issued a corrective letter on behalf of the tribal council saying that the council had not authorized Mr. Halftown's letter and that, in fact, the tribe was committed to the land-claim deal and to its contract with its casino development partner, Empire Resorts. 
 Mr. Wheeler said in an interview that the tribal council's four members would try to settle their differences this month; the governor's aides say the agreement is intact until the council says differently.
 Still, the Cayuga discord reflects the vulnerability of the deals Mr. Pataki is trying to broker as the state moves closer than ever to resolving the land claims. 
 According to Pataki administration officials, the governor intends to submit a bill to the State Legislature that would settle most of the remaining Indian land claims and grant as many as five tribes permission to operate casinos in the Catskills.
 In addition, the legislation -- which could be submitted as early as this week -- would seek to increase the allowable number of Catskill casinos to five from three.
 If it is successful, the state will be relieved of billions of dollars in potential liability and clear the titles held by hundreds of thousands of homeowners, the governor argues. Only two smaller land claims by a federally recognized tribe, the Seneca Nation of Indians, would remain, officials said. 
 But with so many land claims, interests and players -- including dozens of lawyers representing federal, state, county and tribal authorities; armies of lobbyists; and municipalities and citizen groups in the Catskills that want to control if and how casinos will materialize -- the deal is far from a sure thing.
 ''I'm not saying that it's going to be easy, because the last five yards are always the worst in a game,'' said Richard Fields, a member of the development team that is working with the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin, one of five tribes seeking to build a casino in the Catskills.
 The complexity of the interlocking deals, negotiated by the governor's lawyers in relative secrecy, has bewildered elected officials and the public.
 ''There's a great lack of clarity and certainty about the deal: who it's good for, who it's bad for,'' Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat whose district here in Westchester County would be a short trip to the proposed Catskill casinos, said in an interview. ''What you have is a swirl of policies and politics and personalities that no one can get a handle on.''
 The existing Indian claims to lands once occupied by the tribes, which in some cases date to the 18th century, have been litigated and negotiated for decades. After years of frustration and little progress, however, the governor has engaged in flurry of deal-making in the past two months, announcing proposed land-claim settlements with four tribes.
 On Nov. 12, Mr. Pataki and the Seneca-Cayuga tribe of Oklahoma announced an agreement to settle the tribe's claim to land in Seneca and Cayuga Counties in exchange for the right to operate a casino in the Catskills. The tribe is based in Miami, Okla., but traces its ancestry to the New York region.
 Six days later, the governor and the Cayuga Nation, a landless New York tribe, announced an agreement to settle the tribe's claim to 64,000 acres in central New York. As with the Seneca-Cayugas, the governor agreed to allow the Cayugas to operate a casino in the Catskills. Both tribes are working with Empire Resorts, a casino development firm based in Monticello, N.Y.
 But the governor was not through. On Dec. 6 he announced another two deals, this time with the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin and the Stockbridge-Munsee Community, Band of Mohican Indians, also of Wisconsin. Both tribes trace their ancestry to New York.
 The Wisconsin Oneidas, based in Oneida, Wis., have been working with the Cordish Company, of Baltimore, to develop their casino plans; the Stockbridge-Munsees, based in Bowler, Wis., have retained Trading Cove Associates of Waterford, Conn.
 The governor's negotiators are also ironing out the final details of a fifth agreement that would settle a land claim by the Akwesasne Mohawks, a tribe whose reservation straddles the New York-Canada border. Unlike the other four pacts, the proposed Mohawk deal would not include a casino component but would provide additional land for the reservations and tax and other benefits.
 The tribe, a branch of the St. Regis Mohawks, is following an administrative process to get federal and state approval to build a casino with its partner, Caesars Entertainment, at the Kutsher's Sports Academy in Thompson, N.Y.
 All five land-claim settlements require the approval of the State Legislature and United States Congress. Mr. Pataki intends to submit the Congressional version of the land-claims bill sometime in February, his aides said.
 To make the bill more attractive to legislators from Sullivan County, where the five Indian casinos have been proposed, Mr. Pataki plans to require each of the casinos to undergo an environmental review and enter into local agreements with the host communities, the governor's aides said.
 Sullivan County has already signed deals with two of the tribes that, among other provisions, would provide the county with annual payments of $15 million each.
 The Legislature has already agreed to allow up to three casinos in Sullivan and Ulster Counties in the hope of rejuvenating the Catskill resorts. Sullivan County, 90 miles north of New York City, drew the early interest, and other developers, wanting to be part of a concentration of casinos, followed.
 Mr. Pataki's aides say he believes that submitting all the land claims and casino elements together in an one bill would stand a greater chance of success than submitting them one by one. Supporters of this strategy hope the bill creates unstoppable momentum.
 ''If you do it piecemeal, it's always easier to find someone to shoot it down,'' Mr. Fields, the developer working on the Oneida project, said. One bill, he predicted, ''is just going to roll through.''
 Indian tribes and casino developers say they have been told by state and federal officials that they would more likely meet eventual frustration by pursuing casinos through the administrative process, rather than through a Congressional bill, because federal regulators are growing averse to approving off-reservation casinos around the country.
 In a series of open forums in recent weeks, community groups in the Catskills have been debating the merits of casinos and whether to support an increase in the number of allowable casinos from three to five.
 At least two citizen groups, Casino-Free Sullivan County and Catskill Casino Coalition, have planted their flags on opposite sides, and casino opponents have begun to agitate for a countywide referendum.
 The Sullivan County Legislature has not yet voted on whether to support Mr. Pataki's desire for five casinos but several towns nearest the proposed sites support the idea, and several others have voted against it.
 Supporters of the increase say five casinos would help the region's economy. But opponents fear that casino visitors will overtax the region's infrastructure and exact social costs, like increases in crime. Others favor building no more than three casinos and evaluating their effect before deciding whether to add two more.
 In an editorial published this month, The Times Herald-Record of Middletown, N.Y., wondered whether Mr. Pataki was running roughshod over the concerns of local communities to achieve his goal of a state free of Indian land claims. ''Is the governor's plan for five casinos good for Sullivan County?'' the editorial asked. ''How much does he care?''
 It remains unclear how the bill would fare in the State Legislature. Several officials said that the casino and land-claim issues still remained muddy to many legislators, and that only once the Sullivan County Legislature voted and Mr. Pataki presented his legislation would they finally bear down and study the issue.
 ''A lot of them just don't pay attention or they don't dig into the issue,'' said State Senator Frank Padavan, a Republican from Queens and one of the Legislature's most outspoken critics of gambling.
 Even if the legislation passes in Albany, Congressional approval will not necessarily follow, especially as rival casinos take a stand against the Catskill deals.
 ''You have Vegas weighing in, you have Donald Trump, Atlantic City,'' predicted State Senator John J. Bonacic, a Republican and a staunch supporter of Mr. Pataki's casino plan, whose district includes Sullivan County. ''This is not smooth sailing at the Congressional level.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Sullivan County, one casino would be run by the St. Regis Mohawks and Caesars. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Possible Casinos in the Catskills''Four Indian tribes have agreed to settle land claims against the State of New York in exchange for the right to operate casinos in the Catskills. A fifth tribe, the St. Regis Mohawks, is in negotiations to settle its land claim and is separately planning a casino.TRIBE: 1 St. Regis MohawksHEADQUARTERS: Akwesasne, N.Y.POPULATION: 11,000DEVELOPMENT PARTNER: Caesars EntertainmentTRIBE: 2 Cayuga NationHEADQUARTERS: NonePOPULATION: 450DEVELOPMENT PARTNER: Empire Resorts, Monticello, N.Y.TRIBE: 3 Seneca-Cayuga Tribe of OklahomaHEADQUARTERS: Miami, Okla.POPULATION: 4,000DEVELOPMENT PARTNER: Empire Resorts Monticello, N.Y.TRIBE: 4 Stockbridge-Munsee Community, Band of Mohican IndiansHEADQUARTERS: Bowler, Wis.POPULATION: 1,500DEVELOPMENT PARTNER: Trading Cove Associates, Waterford, Conn.TRIBE: 5 Oneida Tribe of Indians of WisconsinHEADQUARTERS: Oneida, Wis.POPULATION: 15,000DEVELOPMENT PARTNER: Cordish Company, Baltimore, Md.Map of Monticello, New York highlighting casinos listed above.(Sources by Indian tribes)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); LAWYERS (74%); COUNTIES (71%) Gambling; Indians, American; Law and Legislation; Gambling; Casinos; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: St Regis Mowhawk Indian Tribe; Cayuga Indians; Seneca-Cayuga Tribe; Stockbridge-Munsee Community; Oneida Indians

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Kirk Semple

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; Catskills (NYS Area)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



662 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Leader Accuses G.O.P. of Drifting From Base

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The leader of New York's Conservative Party warned Sunday that Republicans risked losing their majority in the State Senate because the party faithful was angry over tax and spending increases, business regulation and other measures.
 The chairman of the party, Michael Long, offered a somewhat dyspeptic view of the state of conservatism in New York during remarks to 60 party members as he opened a two-day party conference here. He blamed his Republican allies for hedging on conservative values and adding pork-barrel giveaways to the state budget for the sake of winning re-election and keeping power. 
 ''I would not want to see the Democrats taking control of the Senate. I wouldn't want to see that happen, but it may happen anyway,'' Mr. Long said, referring to the Republicans' narrow majority in the Senate.
 Conservative voters will disengage, he said, ''if the citizens don't see a difference in either party, if both parties are raising taxes, if both parties are mandating restrictions on business and making it more difficult for people to exist in this state.''
 The only Republican whom Mr. Long criticized by name was the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. The men have grown estranged since the party withheld its endorsement of Mr. Bruno's re-election last summer to punish him for positions opposed by Conservative leaders, including tax increases and gay rights.
 In turn, Mr. Bruno disclosed Friday that he would skip the conference and would decline a speaking invitation to its dinner today.
 ''History has brought about a change in him,'' Mr. Long said, referring to Mr. Bruno. ''So we have a moral obligation as a party.
 ''It is so much easier,'' but wrong, he added, ''just to go along with everybody, not to make any enemies.''
 The Conservative Party is entering a crucial stage in its 43-year history. Some Albany Republicans wonder whether it will have relevance or even exist in a few years if it keeps acting as a critic, especially of Mr. Bruno and Gov. George E. Pataki. Mr. Long described state government as ''broken'' Sunday, and he and other speakers bemoaned tax and spending increases in Mr. Pataki's proposed 2005-06 budget. 
 Todd Alhart, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said in response Sunday night, ''The governor looks forward to addressing the party's dinner Monday night to talk about his fiscally responsible budget,'' noting that it proposes reforms to Medicaid and government operations. 
 If Mr. Pataki, who has won the Conservative endorsement in the past, decides not to run for re-election in 2006, the party will be tested to field its own candidate or rally Conservative Party votes for a major-party candidate. For his part, Mr. Long tried to rally the troops.
 ''Maybe I'm focusing too much on the negatives,'' Mr. Long said. ''It's so easy to get down on ourselves and be negative and say, 'What for? What for? The people that we counted on betrayed us.' Well, you know, you lose a battle, you get back up.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); MEDICAID (73%); TRENDS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) Election Issues; Taxation; Law and Legislation; Legislatures and Parliaments; Governors (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: Conservative Party (NYS)

PERSON: Patrick Healy; Michael R (Chmn) Long; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



663 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Good News in Hollywood. Shhh.

BYLINE: By ROSS JOHNSON

 BODY:
Here's a Hollywood riddle: If a car leaves Los Angeles at 9 a.m. traveling toward Reno at 30 miles per hour and another car leaves from Reno for Los Angeles at 40 m.p.h., when will the two meet?
 Answer: We're not obligated to divulge that information.
 It has always been hard to pry reliable numbers out of Hollywood, even when the numbers tell a happy story. The latest example of this is the growing influence of international DVD sales. 
 For the last two years, the Motion Picture Association of America, the lobbying group for the studios, has claimed that Hollywood loses $3.5 billion every year, almost all of it overseas, to the sale of illegally copied films, mainly on bootleg DVD's and their cheaper Asian equivalent, video compact discs (VCD's). 
 But the M.P.A.A. is far less forthcoming when asked how much money the Hollywood studios are making on legitimate foreign sales of home video (a category that includes DVD's, VCD's and VHS tapes). 
 ''Those figures are confidential, and we don't release them,'' said Barbara Berger, a spokeswoman for the M.P.A.A.
 By most estimates and anecdotal evidence, revenues from international home video sales are the fastest-growing part of Hollywood's business. The most reliable estimate comes from Screen Digest, a British data company, which calculated that the home video divisions of the United States studios garnered $11.4 billion in wholesale revenues from the $24.6 billion that overseas consumers spent buying and renting home video products in 2004. 
 What is more certain is that the windfall from overseas home video sales is affecting how the movie business is run. It is inflating budgets for films with big international potential (like the upcoming ''Batman Begins''), changing how top stars negotiate their take of the profits and prompting studios to spend millions fighting piracy -- particularly in Asia and Russia -- that they fear will threaten lucrative developing markets.
 ''International home video is the last great profit center for the studios, and they are going to keep those numbers as smoky as they can for as long as they can,'' said Ron Bernstein, who runs the West Coast book department at International Creative Management, negotiating a piece of the net profit from films for authors.
 The question of how to share the DVD windfall has been a sore subject among Hollywood's labor negotiators for the last year, but the studios have been able to hold their ground. The writers' and directors' guilds recently agreed to new contracts with no gains on the DVD issue. On Saturday, the national board of the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists voted by a 2-to-1 ratio to recommend to members that they accept a new contract with the producers that had no gains for home video residuals.
 No one argues that the studios are purposely underreporting international home video gross revenues or misrepresenting those figures to Hollywood artists who have back-end deals for a share of profits. 
 But the accounting of film and television syndication revenues obtained internationally has long kept auditors busy. Almost none of the multinationals that own the studios break out numbers for their home video divisions in Securities and Exchange Commission filings, preferring to lump them with feature film revenues into a single category called ''filmed entertainment.'' 
 ''The thing about studio accounting is that it's always tricky, but usually legit,'' said Ed Limato, the co-president of International Creative Management, who represents Mel Gibson, Richard Gere and Steve Martin. ''Until we do an audit -- and everybody does one nowadays -- we don't get the video numbers broken out between domestic and international gross revenues.'' 
 For Mr. Limato and other agents for top talent, 2004 was a banner year. Stars are able to negotiate their own portion of home video revenues, unlike rank-and-file guild members who are locked into a royalty fee schedule. As a result, the star pulls in up to 7 percent of gross revenues from video distribution as a royalty -- about a dollar for every DVD version of the films sold. The rest of a movie's cast typically shares in just 1.1 percent. 
 But don't expect the studios to gladly increase the portion not already going to top Hollywood actors. 
 ''For a long time, the film business was a single-digit business on investment return,'' said Charles Roven, the producer of ''Batman Begins'' from Warner Brothers, a division of Time Warner. ''Now, because of home video, it's a low double-digit business, and the studios want to make sure it doesn't go back into the single-digit business.''
 The next Batman project, due out in June, shows how international home video sales are altering the budget calculations of some blockbuster movies. Mr. Roven was able to get a budget, according to an executive at Time Warner who spoke on condition of anonymity, of more than $180 million, based on the expectation of high home video sales in the United States and abroad. The executive also estimates that the film's worldwide marketing budget may exceed $100 million. 
 It is a huge investment, considering that box office ticket sales for the Batman franchise have decreased worldwide, despite currency inflation, from $411 million for the first installment in 1989 to $238 million for the fourth movie in 1997.
 ''Warner Brothers would not be putting this kind of money into the film unless someone thought the investment would be retuned in home video,'' Mr. Roven said.
 Still, an accurate measure of that money is not easy to find. Though independent United States data companies can supply an accurate count of the $27 billion in annual domestic spending on home videos by monitoring bar code scanning, no independent data company has the financial power to track international spending through those bar code systems. Even the leading entertainment industry trade papers do not track international consumer spending on home videos, or gross revenues for international distribution. 
 ''We don't go after those numbers because they're just so hard to get,'' said Scott Hettrick, Variety's home video editor and the editor in chief of its sister publication, Video Business. 
 When it comes to their big international hits, the studios will go so far as to divulge how many units have been shipped. Jim Cardwell, the president of Warner Home Video, said that ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban'' -- the third installment in the Potter franchise, released on home video two months ago -- ''had shipped 27 million units worldwide as of the end of January 2005.''
 At DreamWorks SKG, Kelley Avery, head of the company's worldwide home video team, said that ''Shrek 2'' was the top international seller last year with 37 million units sold, 13 million of them outside the United States. (Ms. Avery noted that the ''Shrek 2'' numbers were for net sales, taking returns into account.)
 And the future could hold more good news for Hollywood. Historically, the sale of DVD players tends to stimulate greater spending on movies and boxed sets of television series. On average, an American household with a VHS tape player increases its spending on home video products by more than $100 annually after it acquires a DVD player, according Adams Media Research of Carmel, Calif. If foreign consumers continue to bring home DVD players and start buying DVD's at the rate United States consumers have done, the international video sales numbers could rise substantially.
 Warner Home Video, which is the leader among the studios with a 20 percent share of international wholesale revenues, is counting on that increase. A Time Warner executive, who asked not to be named because of his company's policy of not breaking out home video figures, said that Warner grossed $2.25 billion in 2004 in international revenues and that the number ''could easily hit $5 billion or $6 billion in three years.'' 
 If the gravy train continues for international home video, it will continue to push up budgets and benefit producers like Mr. Roven of ''Batman Begins.'' 
 ''Nowadays, it's the money, baby,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Although the movie industry says it loses $3.5 billion a year to pirated copies of films, like these being sold in Beijing in December, it will not say how much it earns from legal home video sales. (Photo by Mark Ralston/Reuters)(pg. C1)
The new film ''Batman Begins'' features Christian Bale in the title role. Box office ticket sales for Batman movies are falling, but home video versions still sell briskly overseas. (Photo by David James/Warner Brothers Pictures)
Charles Roven, left, producer of ''Batman Begins,'' said foreign home video sales were pulling up film budgets. At right, a scene from ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban''
27 million copies of the movie have been shipped since its release on home video two months ago, according to the president of Warner Home Video. (Photo by Murray Close/Warner Brothers)
 (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WRITERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); LOBBYING (75%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%) Recordings (Video) ; Sales; Motion Pictures; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Recordings (Video) ; Recordings (Video) 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%) Screen Digest

PERSON: Ross Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



664 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Is Expected To Continue Raising Rates

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Notwithstanding new evidence released on Friday that economic growth has slowed in recent months, the Federal Reserve appears poised to continue raising interest rates for most if not all of this year.
 Analysts almost unanimously predict that the Fed will increase rates on Wednesday by another quarter-point, to 2.5 percent, and most expect the central bank to repeat past statements about raising rates at a ''measured'' pace.
 A variety of economic trends suggests that policy makers have no reason to slow or accelerate the rate increases anytime soon.
 Inflation, though still subdued by most measures, is running higher than a year ago. Strong oil prices and a weaker dollar both push up the cost of imports, and many analysts have predicted that the soaring trade deficit will cause the dollar to fall even further over the next year. 
 But in a series of recent speeches and public comments, Fed officials have placed more emphasis on their view that growth will probably remain fairly strong this year and the economy does not need to be stimulated.
 On Friday, the Commerce Department estimated that the economy grew at an annual rate of 3.1 percent from September through December, much slower than in the previous quarter and less than most forecasters had predicted.
 Still, other indicators point to steady if not spectacular growth of about 3.5 percent this year, which would be the fourth consecutive year of an expansion.
 One significant reason for the Fed to keep lifting short-term rates, analysts said, is that cheap money is almost as plentiful now as it was before the Fed started the process six months ago.
 Although short-term interest rates have been nudged up five times since last June, to 2.25 percent from 1 percent, the cost of home mortgages and long-term corporate financing has actually declined.
 Rates on 10-year Treasury bonds, which directly affect home mortgage rates, were near 4.13 percent on Friday. That was lower than they were last June, before the central bank first raised the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks.
 The persistence of low long-term rates has kept the nation's housing market hotter than most forecasters had expected, and it has also made it easy for companies to raise money at low cost for either expansion or acquisitions.
 Analysts said a pickup in big mergers and acquisitions, like Procter & Gamble's plan to acquire Gillette for $54 billion, points to a greater confidence among companies, illustrated by their willingness to take risks.
 ''Monetary tightening has not yet had an effect on the economy,'' said David Hale, an independent economist in Chicago. ''Credit spreads are tight, mortgage rates are low.''
 The Federal Reserve caused shivers among investors and analysts earlier this month when it released notes from its December policy meeting in which some officials were said to worry about ''speculative excesses'' and inflationary pressures.
 But a number of Fed officials have publicly played down those concerns. ''I disagree with the view that low interest rates promote a sort of moral hazard in financial markets,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, on Jan. 19. 
 Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, expressed a similar skepticism about the risks of excess speculation, as have at least four other senior officials.
 Mr. Greenspan's next broad policy message will probably not come until Feb. 16 or Feb. 17, when he is to testify before House and Senate committees about the economy and monetary policy.
 Many analysts say they believe that if Mr. Greenspan wants to signal any change in emphasis, he will probably wait until he speaks more expansively to lawmakers.
 Minutes from previous Fed meetings have made it clear that a minority of officials on the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets the federal funds rate, would like to abandon the implied pledge to raise rates at a ''pace that is likely to be measured.''
 Critics of the reference to a measured pace contend that it locks the central bank into future decisions. But the Fed is expected to keep the phrase for at least another month, as well as its assessment that the upside and downside risks of inflation and growth are balanced.
 Even at 2.5 percent, the funds rate would be higher than the core rate of inflation, which excludes the costs of energy and food. 
 But it would still be lower than last year's overall increase in consumer prices. 
 ''There is definitely a recognition that we need to get to a different setting, and the only question is how fast to go,'' said Robert DiClemente, a senior economist at Citigroup. ''The inflation outlook is manageable, as long as we keep moving.''
 Based on the prices of federal-funds futures contracts, which are bets on the outlook for the funds rate, investors almost unanimously expect overnight rates to climb to about 3.5 percent by year-end.
 But many analysts said the Fed would probably raise rates at every policy meeting this year, which could push the overnight rate up to 4 percent.
 ''I think the market is low-balling what the Fed is likely to do,'' said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor and now an adviser to the Washington Research Group. 
 Mr. Gramley said investors had focused on the likelihood of slower economic growth in 2005 and were betting that the central bank would feel less need to cool down an overheated economy. 
 But he said it was possible to have slower growth and inflationary pressures at the same time.
 ''This will be Greenspan's last year,'' Mr. Gramley said, noting that Mr. Greenspan's term as a governor ends next January and cannot be renewed.
 ''He's going to be thinking about his legacy, and he doesn't want that legacy to be higher inflation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%) United States Economy; Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



665 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Acts Of Bravery

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You'd have to be pretty hardhearted not to be moved by the courage of the millions of Iraqis who insisted on turning out to vote yesterday despite the very real threat that they would be walking into mayhem and violent death at the polls.
 At polling stations across the country there were women in veils holding the hands of children, and men on crutches, and people who had been maimed during the terrible years of Saddam, and old people. Among those lined up to vote in Baghdad was Samir Hassan, a 32-year-old man who lost a leg in the blast of a car bomb last year. He told a reporter, ''I would have crawled here if I had to.'' 
 In a war with very few feel-good moments, yesterday's election would qualify as one. But as with any positive development in Iraq, this one was riddled with caveats. For one thing, dozens of people were, in fact, killed in election day attacks. And shortly after the polls closed, a British military transport plane crashed northwest of Baghdad.
 So there was no respite from the carnage.
 And we should keep in mind that despite the feelings of pride and accomplishment experienced by so many of the voters, yesterday's election was hardly a textbook example of democracy in action. A real democracy requires an informed electorate. What we saw yesterday was an uncommonly brave electorate. But it was woefully uninformed.
 Much of the electorate was voting blind. Half or more of those who went to the polls believed they were voting for a president. They weren't. They were electing a transitional national assembly that will have as its primary task the drafting of a constitution. The Washington Post noted that because of the extreme violence that preceded the election ''almost none of the 7,700 candidates for the National Assembly campaigned publicly or even announced their names.''
 As John F. Burns put it in The Times yesterday:
 ''Half a dozen candidates have been assassinated. As a result, the names of all others have not been made public; they were available in the last days of the campaign on Web sites inaccessible to most Iraqis, few of whom own computers.''
 ''Democracy,'' according to ''The Oxford Companion to Politics of the World,'' ''refers to a form of government in which, in contradistinction to monarchies and aristocracies, the people rule.''
 That is not the case in Iraq and is not likely to be the case soon. In much of Iraq the people exist in a kind of hell on earth, at the mercy of American forces on the one hand and a variety of enraged insurgents on the other. Despite the pretty words coming out of the Bush administration, the goals of the U.S. and the goals of most ordinary Iraqis are not, by a long stretch, the same.
 The desire of the U.S., as embodied by the Bush administration, is to exercise as much control as possible over the Middle East and its crucial oil reserves. There is very little concern here about the plight of ordinary Iraqis, which is why the horrendous casualties being suffered by Iraqi civilians, including women and children, get so little attention.
 What most ordinary Iraqis have been expressing, not surprisingly, is a desire for a reasonably decent quality of life. They are a long way from that.
 In large swaths of the country, death at the hands of insurgents seems always just moments away. It's also extremely easy for innocent Iraqis to get blown away by Americans. That can occur if drivers get too close -- or try to pass -- an American military convoy. Or if confusion arising from language barriers, or ignorance of the rules, or just plain nervousness results in an unfortunate move by a vehicle at a checkpoint. Or if someone objects too vociferously to degrading treatment by U.S. forces. Or if someone is simply suspected, wrongly, of being an insurgent.
 Crime in many areas is completely out of control. Kidnapping for ransom, including the kidnapping of children, is ubiquitous. Carjackings are commonplace. Rape and murder are widespread.
 In a country with the second-largest oil reserves in the world, drivers have to wait in line for hours at a time for gasoline. Electric power is available just a handful of hours a day. Unemployment rates are sky high. With many women destitute, prostitution is a growth industry.
 Iraqis may have voted yesterday. But they live in occupied territory, and the occupiers have other things on their minds than the basic wishes of the Iraqi people. That's not democracy. That's a recipe for more war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%); ASSASSINATION (65%) Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Reserves (Natural Resources); Terrorism

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



666 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Is I.B.M.'s Lenovo Proposal A Threat to National Security?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
On its face, I.B.M.'s planned sale of its personal computer business to Lenovo of China for $1.75 billion hardly seems a deal that would prompt a national security investigation by the Bush administration.
 Most I.B.M. personal computers are now produced in China. Like other PC's, the I.B.M. machines are powered by Intel microprocessors and are assembled with chips and parts made around the world, though mainly in East Asia.
 ''I don't think anybody has stood up and said with a straight face that PC's are a critical military technology,'' said William A. Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council and a former trade official in the Clinton administration. 
 But the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a multiagency group, will carry out a formal investigation, which is expected to last 45 days, people close to the inquiry have confirmed. The escalation of the committee's examination from a review, begun a month ago, to a formal investigation was reported on Friday by The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal.
 The investigation, foreign trade specialists said, is not surprising at a time when China's stature, both economically and strategically, is in rapid ascent. It has become a manufacturing center for the global economy, is a rising technological power and poses a challenge to the American economy on several fronts. ''The I.B.M. deal falls right into the middle of all that,'' said Michael R. Wessel, a member of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a group established by Congress. ''This deal and this investigation are going to send an important message that these transactions will be scrutinized and that China is an important player on the world stage.''
 The investigation appears to have caught I.B.M. somewhat by surprise. In an interview shortly after the deal was announced on Dec. 7, Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said he was reassured that most of the commentary about the I.B.M.-Lenovo transaction was that it was a sign of the tightening of mutually beneficial economic links between the United States and China -- and that no political ramification had surfaced initially. 
 I.B.M. was aware there would be a review of the transaction by the foreign investment committee, which was established in 1975 and in 1988 was given a stronger mandate to conduct national security reviews of foreign investments. But Mr. Palmisano seemed to suggest that the impression I.B.M. took away from its initial talks with the administration was that the foreign investment committee's review would likely be routine and present no hurdle to its sale.
 But last Tuesday, the Republican chairmen of three House committees, in a letter to Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, urged the administration to begin an extended investigation. Mr. Snow is chairman of the foreign investment committee. 
 Congress is not represented on the administration's foreign investment committee, which includes representatives from the Homeland Security, Defense, Justice, Treasury and Commerce departments, among others. But the administration, trade specialists say, cannot afford to appear to be brushing aside any legitimate questions by Congress or security analysts within the government. 
 Some members of the foreign investment committee, according to people close to the inquiry, have raised questions about whether the sale of I.B.M.'s PC business to Lenovo may increase the potential for industrial espionage and the transfer of technology for possible military uses, given that the Chinese government owns a large stake of Lenovo.
 The concern, these people said, is that research and development work at I.B.M.'s PC operations in the United States in areas like battery technology, encryption and product integration could be used to advance China's military capabilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (59%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Industrial Espionage; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%); INTEL CORP (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES (83%); NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL (56%) Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; Lenovo Group; International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (58%) Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



667 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Leaves Output Levels Unchanged

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
OPEC ministers decided on Sunday to leave their oil production unchanged after meeting here, as they became more convinced that current high prices are not hurting global economic growth.
 The energy ministers at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries maintained the group's production at 27 million barrels a day. And its president, Sheik Ahmad Fahd al-Sabah of Kuwait, said the producers would reduce their output before the group's next meeting in a month and a half if prices tumbled as a result of a seasonally weaker second quarter.
 OPEC, which accounts for one-third of the world's oil production, formally abandoned a pledge to keep its benchmark price at $22 to $28 a barrel, saying that the price band had become ''unrealistic.'' 
 But it did not say what new level it would seek. 
 ''We have to find an acceptable figure to defend,'' Sheik Sabah said. ''As Kuwait's representative, I think $32 to $35 a barrel would be a good number, but all my colleagues have a different number in mind.'' 
 OPEC's adopted its price-band mechanism in March 2000 to help it determine when to reduce production to prevent the benchmark price of crude oil from falling below $22 a barrel or, alternatively, to increase production if the benchmark rose above $28 a barrel. 
 But the target has become irrelevant. OPEC's benchmark price, which is based on a basket of crude oil grades that typically sell at a discount to oil futures traded in New York, has been above $28 a barrel since December 2003.
 On Friday, that basket price was at $41.88 a barrel, and the commonly quoted futures price on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $47.18 a barrel as traders expected little change in production from the OPEC meeting. 
 Some oil producers had expressed concern that rising prices last year would stem the demand for oil and slow world economic growth, though the group took no action to increase supplies. 
 Economists differ on how the United States and China, the two largest markets for oil, have been affected. That has led to renewed confidence in OPEC that the world can live with higher prices.
 The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, told reporters over the weekend, ''The world economy has grown so big that little fluctuations here and there with oil are not doing so much.'' He made similar comments while attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last week.
 Roger Diwan, a managing director of the consulting firm PFC Energy, said: ''They are testing the market. OPEC seems to be saying, 'Tell us how much you are willing to pay and we will tell you what our price is.'''
 Most ministers at the meeting seemed to have an idea about new price targets. Iran's oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, suggested a range of $30 to $40 a barrel. Nigeria's representative, Edmund Daukoru, said he would be ''comfortable'' with $45 to $55 a barrel; and Libya's oil minister, Fathi bin Shatwan, suggested that prices as high as $60 a barrel in New York would not harm the world economy. 
 A new price target may be announced when OPEC meets on March 16 in Isfahan, Iran. 
 Analysts said that while crude oil prices might be high, relatively few consumers had seen rises in their energy bills as great as the oil prices suggested. In Europe and Japan, people have been shielded by the strength of their currencies and the decline of the dollar, the currency in which oil is sold.
 ''The dollar's weakness is allowing economies to grow despite the high oil prices,'' said Yasser Elguindi, a senior managing director at Medley Global Advisors. ''As long as the Bush administration is happy with a weak dollar, OPEC will be happy with high oil prices.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FUTURES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%) KUWAIT (93%); SWITZERLAND (88%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



668 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Has Its Day At Sundance

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

DATELINE: PARK CITY, Utah, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
It is something of a tradition among observers of the Sundance Film Festival to take note of -- and, as often as not, to bemoan -- the apparent contradiction between the daring, idiosyncratic filmmaking that is the festival's reason for being and the buzz-mongering and hucksterism that sometimes seem to dominate it, especially over its first long weekend, when the buyers, agents and movie stars are out in force. At this year's festival, which wrapped up Saturday night with an awards ceremony in the cavernous, remote Park City Racquet Club, the obligatory arguments about the true meaning of independent cinema could be heard on the shuttle buses that ferried festivalgoers from movie to movie.
 The divide between art and commerce -- or between real and ersatz independence -- is beside the point anyway. A more interesting division, one with implications beyond the self-referential confines of Sundance, could be seen in this year's competitive selections. 
 It was a weak year for the American dramatic competition and a strong one for documentaries, but the contrast between these groups of movies was not just a matter of quality. In any case, the dramatic jury had no trouble handing out prizes -- it seems none of the juries did; there were more than 30 awards given. The dramatic jury spread 8 awards among the 16 films that were eligible, including two special prizes for acting, given to Amy Adams, who played a naive pregnant woman in Phil Morrison's strenuously quirky ''Junebug,'' and Lou Pucci, who played a troubled teenager in Mike Mills's ''Thumbsucker.'' 
 Noah Baumbach won both the Waldo Salt award for screenwriting and the director's prize for ''The Squid and the Whale,'' a sharply observed autobiographical story largely about another troubled teenager (played by Jesse Eisenberg). The grand jury prize, the top award, went to Ira Sachs's ''Forty Shades of Blue,'' a domestic drama set in Memphis about a lonely Russian woman, her older husband and his son -- one that did not involve a troubled teenager. (Nor did the festival's other Memphis-based movie, Craig Brewer's hip-hop melodrama, ''Hustle and Flow,'' which won the audience award.) 
 It was perhaps not remarkable that so many of the nonfiction films addressed social problems and political issues, including the Enron scandal, sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church, abstinence-only education in public schools, the recent history of American foreign policy and the strange career of the Peruvian president Alberto Fujimori. The documentary jury acknowledged this tendency by giving a special prize to Jessica Sanders's ''After Innocence,'' which follows the lives of people released from prison after their convictions were overturned based on DNA evidence, and by awarding the grand prize to ''Why We Fight,'' Eugene Jarecki's dense and absorbing critique of American militarism. But even documentaries that did not directly tackle contentious public matters -- like Henry-Alex Rubin and Dana Adam Shapiro's rousing, audience-award-winning ''Murderball,'' about quadriplegic rugby players, or Mark Becker's quiet and poignant ''Romantico,'' about a Mexican guitarist's journey home from San Francisco -- seemed motivated by a desire to take hold of some of the hard and strange realities of modern life. (One possible exception was ''The Aristocrats,'' an uproarious dissection of a notorious dirty joke told by a retinue of famous comedians.)
 What was striking was how few of the fictional films seemed to share this impulse, or, if they did, to give it persuasive form. Even the best of them -- like ''Me and You and Everyone We Know,'' Miranda July's marvelously idiosyncratic debut, which won yet another special jury prize -- took place in self-enclosed worlds, delimited either by the preoccupations of the director or by the narrow perspectives of the characters. If the American documentary competition ranged far and wide in history, geography and politics, its dramatic sibling seemed constricted by comparison, surveying a landscape of small towns, suburbs, unhappy families and, above all, troubled teenagers.
 A festival devoted to nurturing young filmmakers can be expected to have its share of coming-of-age stories and explorations of adolescent angst, but an alien whose space ship happened to land in Park City last week might have concluded, from the evidence on screen, that the United States is populated mainly by high school students whose consuming interests are drugs, sex and killing themselves and each other. 
 Which is not to say that drugs, teenage sex and violence aren't genuine social issues, but that the way they are treated in movies tends, more and more, to be a matter of convention rather than insight. The bright, hypocritical suburban world of ''The Chumscrubber,'' a dreadful movie shown in the noncompetitive, high-profile premieres section of Sundance, seems cobbled out of other movies, notably ''Donnie Darko'' and ''American Beauty,'' that were themselves not all that original. A rancid comedy called ''Pretty Persuasion'' was even worse, inviting viewers to feel morally superior to a predatory 15-year-old girl while leeringly recording her every sexual adventure. 
 Rian Johnson's ''Brick'' is a much better movie than either ''Pretty Persuasion'' or ''The Chumscubber,'' wittily transplanting the hard-boiled language and intricate plotting of classic film noir into a modern suburban high school setting, but it is also an exercise in genre, operating at a knowing, ironic and ultimately safe distance from reality. The jury awarded ''Brick'' -- you guessed it -- one of those special prizes that were suddenly as common as ''my child is an honor student'' bumper stickers on suburban minivans. 
 But the division between inward- and outward-looking filmmaking -- between engagement and solipsism -- is not just a matter of the differences between fiction and documentary. This much was clear in the world cinema competition, which for the first time included a dramatic as well as a documentary slate. Even more than its American counterpart, the world documentary jury focused on politics, awarding special prizes to Simone Bitton's ''Wall,'' which deals with life on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian divide, and ''The Liberace of Baghdad,'' Sean McAllister's portrait of an Iraqi musician. The grand prize went to ''The Shape of the Moon,'' Leonard Retel Helmrich's exploration of religion, family and daily life in Indonesia. (The audience award went to Peter Raymont's ''Shake Hands With the Devil: The Journey of Romeo Dallaire,'' about the Canadian general who commanded United Nations forces during the 1994 Rwandan genocide.)
 And while the world dramatic competition had its share of genre exercises, under-age sex and coming-of-age stories, it featured two films that showed greater maturity -- greater worldliness, if you like -- than anything on the American side. The jury gave a special prize (yes, one of those) to Jorge Gaggero's ''Live-In Maid,'' a quiet, self-assured film about the complicated, largely unspoken bond between a maid and her employer, both older women struggling to maintain their dignity during the collapse of Argentina's economy. This is a first film, and it proves that young filmmakers can make movies about something other than themselves. It is also exemplary in showing, with both clarity and subtlety, the impact of historical events on individual lives.
 The same might be said of the grand jury prize winner, ''The Hero,'' from Angola, a country that, in the words of the film's director, Zeze Gambao, ''does not even have a film industry.'' ''The Hero'' takes place at the end of that country's long civil war, and it is one of those movies that are sad without being depressing, in part because of the generosity and warmth the filmmaker brings to the story, and to the actors. It owes an obvious debt to ''The Bicycle Thief'' -- one of its main characters, a war veteran, spends much of the film searching the rough streets of Luanda for his prosthetic leg -- and is infused with the durable spirit of Italian neorealism. Its presence here did Sundance proud, and was a reminder that amid all the hype and the hustle and flow, there is still plenty of room for humanism.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sundance films, clockwise from top left: ''The Chumscrubber,'' with Glenn Close
''The Hero,'' with Oumar Makena Diop and Maria Ceica
''The Aristocrats,'' with Paul Provenza and Penn Jillette
and ''The Squid and the Whale,'' with Jesse Eisenberg and, bottom, Owen Kline. (Photo by Richard Foreman/Newmarket Films)
(Photo by Rui Xavier)
(Photo by James Hamilton)
(Photo by Mighty Cheese Productions)(pg. E1)
 Ira Sachs receiving the grand jury prize for ''Forty Shades of Blue.'' (Photo by George Frey/EPA)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); SEX EDUCATION (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (62%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Motion Pictures; Sundance Film Festival (Park City, Utah); Documentary Films and Programs

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: PENN JILLETTE (58%) A O Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



669 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Search Sites Play a Game of Constant Catch-Up

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Last Monday, Google representatives called analysts and reporters to trumpet a new service that searches the transcripts of television broadcasts. Yahoo, Google's rival, got wind of the announcement and within hours, its publicity machine had bolted into action to say it had a similar service in the works. 
 Perhaps the fiercest competition on the Internet these days is among sites offering new ways to search through more information. Yahoo and Microsoft each have hundreds of engineers trying to challenge Google's leadership, and dozens of minor players are trying to find ways of getting their services noticed. A9, Amazon.com's search service, recently sent vans with digital cameras onto the streets of some cities to take pictures of businesses. The photos were later displayed alongside telephone numbers in A9's phone directory. 
 So far, all this innovation has yet to shake Google from its perch at the top of the search market, although its growth in market share has slowed. Google, which reports its earnings for the fourth quarter today and is expected to double its revenue from a year ago, has continued to increase its share of searches conducted over the last year, according to research by ComScore Networks. In November, 47 percent of searches in the world were on sites owned by Google, up from 44 percent a year earlier. Yahoo's sites rose to 27 percent, from 25 percent a year ago.
 But underneath those numbers, Yahoo is making significant gains, particularly in the United States, with new features that it has yet to introduce to international users. And at a time when Google has stalled in getting some new products to the market, Yahoo has been methodically working on a master list of projects: first, core Internet search, then shopping search, local search and next travel search, according to Danny Sullivan, the editor of Search Engine Watch, an Internet news site. He said Google had been more erratic. 
 ''Yahoo says, 'Where is the mountain? Let's climb it,''' Mr. Sullivan said. ''Google says, 'Maybe we want to go up the mountain and maybe we want to go surfing.'''
 In the United States, Yahoo is gaining on Google. Yahoo's share rose to 35 percent of searches in November from 29 percent a year earlier, according to ComScore. During the same period, Google rose to 38 percent from 37 percent. And Yahoo is receiving acclaim for some of its innovations, like local search that allows users to see a map that pinpoints the location of the area or business they are searching for.
 ''Each one of our new products can bring in new users who rediscover the core product we offer,'' said Jeff Weiner, Yahoo's senior vice president for search.
 A study of consumer behavior by Keynote Systems showed that while Google remained the top search engine, ranked by the perceived quality of customer experience, both Yahoo and MSN were closing the gap. 
 Mr. Sullivan said he believed that over the last year Yahoo had focused on improving its core search service, while Google's management was preoccupied with its elaborate stock offering.
 ''The biggest thing that slowed them down was the I.P.O., which took a lot of energy from the top,'' he said.
 And even before the stock offering, Google appeared to be distracted in its product development plans, Mr. Sullivan said. 
 ''The bigger problem with Google is that they will pick some idea, deliver a first version of the product and move on,'' he said. He noted that most of their trumpeted new services -- like Google news; Froogle, its shopping service; and Gmail, its e-mail service -- are all still beta services, the industry term for preliminary test offerings. Gmail, indeed, is still available to users only by invitation nearly a year after its introduction.
 Marissa Mayer, Google's director for consumer Web products, said those services had kept the beta label because there were important features that the company had not yet been able to add. Even so, each of the services has been improved several times, she said.
 ''It's hard to argue that we have dropped the ball on any of the major services we have released,'' she said. ''They just move at different paces.''
 Moreover, she said, Google users have come to expect the unexpected.
 ''There is more creativity involved in our process here,'' she said. ''And isn't that more fun and more interesting? We respond not only to competitive pressures but also to internal ideas.'' 
 Yusuf Mehdi, the Microsoft corporate vice president who manages MSN and its search effort, said he was encouraged that Yahoo's share of searches in the United States increased over the last year. 
 ''I think there is a lot of room to improve the customer experience and you can change share with better experience,'' he said.
 He also argued that Google had lost its way.
 ''There has been so much innovation in other areas -- like photos and news -- that they have not moved as fast in core search as I would have thought,'' Mr. Mehdi said. 
 Microsoft's test search site (search.msn.com) has a few innovations, like the use of content from its Encarta encyclopedia and a function called ''search near me'' to find local listings. But Mr. Sullivan said that so far Microsoft's results did not have the quality of Google and Yahoo and were more open to manipulation by site owners. Mr. Mehdi said that Microsoft's formulas were improved each week, and that its main MSN site would soon be ready to replace the search technology from Yahoo.
 Behind all the jockeying for position in the search engine business, however, it is still not so clear how people decide on which search engine to use. 
 Microsoft, for example, historically has gotten a large part of its traffic because it installs MSN as the default home page for the Internet Explorer browser. And today, many search specialists say that the differences between the various search engines are much smaller than a few years ago, when Google was clearly superior to the competition.
 ''If you slapped the Yahoo logo on the Google results, a lot of people wouldn't know the difference,'' Mr. Sullivan said. 
 And some observers wonder if the intensity of competition, particularly between Yahoo and Google, may have its own distractions, leaving both companies vulnerable.
 ''There is so much tit-for-tat between Yahoo and Google when they match each other's futures, that they are leaving an opening for things they are not watching,'' said Seth Goldstein, the chairman of Majestic Research, a firm that studies online consumer behavior for investors. He noted a lot of innovation among smaller sites in using blogs and other methods to associate, or tag, Web pages with information about their content.
 ''A lot of the real innovation is happening under the radar,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the competition among Google and its rivals for new ways to search online information misstated the timing of Google's earnings announcement. It is today; it was not yesterday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Weiner, the senior vice president of Yahoo's Search and Marketplace unit, and a page showing the company's new video search engine. (Photo by Peter DeSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Still Gaining Favor''Google attracts the most searches even though other sites, like Yahoo!, have been adding new options.Share of all searches worldwideGoogleNov. '03: 44%Nov. '04: 47Yahoo!Nov. '03: 25Nov. '04: 27MSN-MicrosoftNov. '03: 14Nov. '04: 12Time Warner (Includes AOL)Nov. '03: 9Nov. '04: 5OthersNov. '03: 8Nov. '04: 9(Source by comScore Networks) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKET SHARE (67%) Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); KEYNOTE SYSTEMS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Amazon.com Inc; Yahoo Inc; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); KEYN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (50%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (50%)

PERSON: Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



670 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Adelphia Weighs Options As Cable Bids Come Due
As bids for Adelphia's cable systems come due, a joint bid from Time Warner and Comcast remains the one to beat. But investors and analysts are warning that Time Warner and Comcast could be overpaying at the $17.5 billion asking price.
 And Adelphia is weighing other options that include selling off pieces to financial buyers or simply keeping its assets and emerging from bankruptcy. Market Place. [Page C6.]

Best Product in a Leading Role
Now that nominees for the Academy Awards have been announced, it is time to consider another category: best product in a leading role. One nominee could be the Sanford wines sold by the Terlato Wine Group, which is among the brands featured in the movie ''Sideways,'' above. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C10.]

Madison Avenue is responding to the planned acquisition of Gillette by Procter & Gamble with a mix of anxiety and eagerness. Procter is already the world's largest advertiser. [C9.]

Airlines Spur Travel Agency Shift
In a move expected to save millions annually, some airlines are persuading travel agents to shift to Web-based services from the mainframe systems they have used for 30 years. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce report. [C4.]

OPEC Leaves Output Unchanged
OPEC ministers decided to leave their production unchanged as they become more convinced that high prices are not hurting global economic growth. [C2.]

U.S. to Examine Lenovo Deal
The United States will lead a formal investigation of I.B.M.'s planned sale of its personal computer business to Lenovo of China to determine if the deal poses a risk to national security, people close to the inquiry confirmed. [C6.]

Kodak Said to Be in Talks for Creo
The Eastman Kodak Company is in talks to acquire Creo, a Canadian printing technology company, for about $1 billion, executives close to the negotiations said. [C9.]

Getting Credit for Spider-Man
When a federal judge ruled that Stan Lee, a co-creator of many Marvel Comics characters, was entitled to 10 percent of the profits from Marvel Enterprises film and television productions, he renewed a long-simmering debate in comic book history: How much credit does Mr. Lee deserve for creating characters like Spider-Man, above, and the Fantastic Four and how much was due to his collaborators? [C8.]

Ford to Develop Diesel Prototype
Ford Motor said it would work with the Environmental Protection Agency to try to develop a diesel engine prototype for use in its cars and trucks. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,427.20 up 34.21Nasdaq composite -- 2,035.83 up 1.5610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.14% Unch.The euro -- 1.3046 down 0.0005The dollar -- 103.36 yen up 0.69Graph: ''TODAY''Graph tracks the percentage change in personal income from June - Nov. 2004.December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +3.3%Graph tracks the percentage change in new-home sales from June - Nov. 2004.December figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +6.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); FILM (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (51%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (94%); TIME WARNER INC (92%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (82%); FORD MOTOR CO (72%); TERLATO WINE GROUP (70%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (94%); CCV (NYSE) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (72%); F (NYSE) (72%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



671 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Rebuttal Begins for a Speech Not Yet Given

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
With President Bush scheduled to deliver his State of the Union address on Wednesday, Democratic leaders in Congress are planning a pre-emptive strike on Monday, challenging Mr. Bush on his policy in Iraq and his plans for Social Security.
 In a ''prebuttal'' to the presidential address, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader, plans to urge the president to use Sunday's elections in Iraq as an opportunity to change course in that country and ''come clean'' with the American public by presenting a coherent plan for what lies ahead in Iraq.
 ''Most of all, we need an exit strategy so that we know what victory is and how we can get there; so that we know what we need to do and so that we know when the job is done,'' said a draft of the speech Mr. Reid is to deliver in an appearance with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, his counterpart in the House, at the National Press Club here. 
 Excerpts of Ms. Pelosi's remarks show that she plans to emphasize Democratic skepticism about Mr. Bush's efforts to change Social Security so workers could place some money into personal investment accounts rather than pay into the existing retirement program.
 ''Private accounts also take away the one thing that makes Social Security the bedrock upon which Americans can build their retirements -- the guaranteed benefit,'' says Ms. Pelosi in her speech. ''The burst of the Internet bubble in 2000 wreaked havoc on private investments. Imagine if it had done the same to their Social Security. We won't let a guaranteed benefit become a guaranteed gamble.''
 As the Democrats planned their presentation, House and Senate Republicans returned Sunday from a four-day strategy session in West Virginia, where Mr. Bush and the leadership sought to alleviate uneasiness about the Social Security initiative. One senior Republican official who attended the sessions said lawmakers were anxiously awaiting promised details in the president's address.
 ''The president made a very solid presentation on Social Security, but until people see a plan and see exactly what it will entail, it is hard for them to get their arms around it,'' said the official. ''People understand the problem and the need to act, but until that action is defined there is still going to be some nervousness.''
 Another Republican official said lawmakers were heartened by a presentation by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, seen as a moderate voice in the party and a possible presidential candidate, who was encouraging about Social Security changes. Both officials spoke about the private retreat only on the condition that they would not be identified.
 The president's speech will not be the only flashpoint between the parties this week. The Senate could consider the nomination of Alberto R. Gonzales to be attorney general as early as Monday. 
 Democrats have indicated that they intend to subject his confirmation to extended floor debate, given his role as White House counsel in helping to develop administration policy on treatment of detainees from Afghanistan and Iraq. ''There's certainly no secret that he was involved in the prison abuse situation, which involved torture,'' Mr. Reid said last week. 
 Opponents of the nomination say they would like to rally as many Democratic votes against Mr. Gonzales as they as can in a repudiation of the administration's policy on treatment of detainees and what they see as its lack of accountability.
 Mr. Reid's remarks on Iraq followed a call last week by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, for the United States to begin disengaging militarily and politically from that country. 
 Saying the American presence was helping to fuel the insurgency, Mr. Kennedy called for the president to withdraw 12,000 or more troops soon after the voting. Mr. Kennedy, who reaffirmed that view in a statement Sunday after Iraqis voted, became the first senator to call publicly for withdrawal; about two dozen Democratic House members have done so as well.
 In his remarks, Mr. Reid intends to press the Democratic case that the Bush administration is failing to fulfill its full commitment to members of the military.
 ''President Bush needs to do much more to live up to his obligations as commander in chief in this new term,'' the speech says. ''That starts with no longer sending our troops into battle without the weapons and equipment they need.''
 In her comments, Ms. Pelosi says the Bush administration's claim that the Social Security program faces a crisis follows a White House pattern of exaggerating problems to enforce preconceived solutions.
 ''We can solve this long-term challenge without dismantling the system, and without allowing this administration's false declaration of a crisis to justify a privatization plan that is unnecessary, unaffordable and unwise,'' the text said.
 The two Democratic leaders will also offer the formal televised response to the president's address on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The minority leaders, Senator Harry Reid and Representative Nancy Pelosi, will offer the Democrats' response to the State of the Union address on Wednesday. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Politics and Government; State of the Union Message (US) ; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; United States Politics and Government; Social Security (US); Privatization

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (82%) National Press Club

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NANCY PELOSI (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Carl Hulse; Harry (Sen) Reid; Nancy (Rep) Pelosi; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



672 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: Jackson May Be Here, There, or Everywhere

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
When Isiah Thomas was an unemployed coach and not yet the Knicks' presumptive savior, he had two chances to see in person the methods of Phil Jackson, the most successful coach of this era.
 He missed both appointments.
 In October 2003, Thomas was scheduled to fly to Los Angeles and observe the Lakers' training camp. But he aborted the trip when his daughter broke her kneecap. Thomas rescheduled for December, but canceled that trip when the Knicks made him their team president. 
 ''I was just trying to see as many college and pro coaches as I possibly could and just trying to learn more about the game,'' Thomas said. ''Keep adding to your book, keep adding new ideas and just keep talking to people about the game of basketball and how you could get better.''
 Thirteen months later, Thomas is still talking about getting better and, quietly, still seeking Jackson's wisdom.
 The Knicks need a new head coach. Jackson -- a hustling, savvy Knicks forward in the 1960's and 70's -- is easily the best coach available, and Thomas has made clear that he intends to pursue him after the season. The two have made their mutual interest known through intermediaries.
 And though Jackson has tempered his public comments, friends say he is intrigued by the chance to coach his old team.
 ''New York would be his No. 1 choice,'' one of Jackson's confidants said. Another close friend called the Knicks position ''the job he's always wanted.'' As Tex Winter, who coached under Jackson in Chicago and Los Angeles, put it, ''He has a special place in his heart for the Knicks.''
 Likewise, Thomas has said that Jackson, who has won nine N.B.A. championships as a coach, a record he shares with Red Auerbach, is an attractive candidate.
 But the path that could bring Jackson back to his New York roots promises to be more complicated.
 Although Jackson is an obvious choice to replace Lenny Wilkens, who resigned on Jan. 22, Jackson is not yet certain he will coach again. At 59, he is monitoring his health and his motivation.
 If Jackson does return to the N.B.A. -- and many friends believe he will -- he is expected to entertain offers from coast to coast. 
 No other team holds the sentimental intrigue of returning to New York, but several could entice Jackson with better players and the promise of instant gratification in the playoffs.
 There could be vacancies in Sacramento, Portland and Seattle, whose coaches are in the final years of their contracts. Jackson has socialized with the Maloof brothers, who own the Sacramento Kings. And he is friendly with the Seattle SuperSonics owner Howard Schultz, who like Jackson supported the presidential run of Bill Bradley, a former Knick, in 2000.
 Dallas Coach Don Nelson has one season left on his contract, but he speaks often of retiring, and the Mavericks have assets that would be attractive to Jackson -- a talented roster and a generous owner, Mark Cuban, who has not endorsed Nelson's protege, Avery Johnson, as the next coach. Jackson, who made $6 million a year in Los Angeles, may command a salary of $8 million to $10 million.
 He could also be drawn to teams like Golden State, Miami and Houston, friends said. None of those teams are expected to have an opening, but situations change quickly in the N.B.A.
 In Miami, if the Heat were to underachieve, it would not be surprising for Shaquille O'Neal to demand a reunion with his former coach. The Houston Rockets have been accused of underachieving, and -- given Jackson's success with O'Neal and Kobe Bryant -- he would be a natural fit with the Rockets' center-guard tandem of Yao Ming and Tracy McGrady.
 ''He's not going to make a commitment to any team until he's heard every offer,'' the confidant said. ''Even though New York is attractive to him, there will be other opportunities. He's enjoying keeping everyone guessing.''
 Jackson has been guarded about his future since parting ways with the Lakers last summer. In a December interview, Jackson said, ''I'd have to listen'' if the Knicks called, and he repeated that sentiment last week to ESPN.
 ''I'm just sitting back and watching, myself, and seeing if I have a thirst to go back and coach,'' he told ESPN. ''And if I don't have the dedication and desire to go back and coach, I'm not going to do it. And it hasn't arisen yet. I don't have that urge.''
 Friends say the urge is greater than Jackson will publicly admit, though he is enjoying his leisure time and is sticking to his vow to sit out this season.
 Jackson still lives in the Los Angeles beach community of Playa Del Rey, has been working out regularly with a trainer and has lost about 15 pounds. An avid tennis fan, Jackson attended the Australian Open and will soon embark on a motorcycle trip through New Zealand with his brother, Joe.
 But Jackson, who will return to California in late February or early March, is also keeping a close eye on the N.B.A., friends said. Many believe he will coach again.
 Those who were interviewed dismissed or played down the presumed obstacles to a Jackson-Knicks reunion.
 One commonly held perception is that Jackson is interested only in teams that are ready to contend for a championship -- a standard that would rule out the Knicks. Jackson said he would not entertain a wholesale rebuilding effort, but he could work for a team that is at least headed in the right direction.
 ''It may intrigue him at this particular point in his career,'' said Frank Hamblen, an assistant under Jackson in Chicago and Los Angeles. ''He always felt that he kind of had this ability to get a team that's on the verge of winning over the hump. But things change. This may be his new thing that he wants to do.''
 Although critics say Jackson has simply benefited from coaching elite players, his supporters point to the 1993-94 season in Chicago. After Michael Jordan retired, the Bulls retooled around Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc, and Jackson guided them to 55 victories. They took the Knicks to seven games in the Eastern Conference semifinals.
 Winter said Jackson would be reluctant to take over only a team that has no hope of making the playoffs.
 ''I've always felt like Phil wouldn't take the challenge of coaching a team unless he felt like they had a chance to have a pretty good team,'' Winter said. ''That doesn't mean win the championship necessarily, but make the playoffs.''
 As for winning a 10th championship, which would break Jackson's tie with Auerbach, ''I don't know whether that's that important to him,'' Winter said. ''He's won, what, nine of them?''
 Although the Knicks are struggling, they have two talented guards, Stephon Marbury and Jamal Crawford; two budding prospects, Mike Sweetney and Trevor Ariza; and $43 million in expiring contracts to use in potential trades this summer.
 It is likely that Jackson's interest in the Knicks will depend largely on what assurances Thomas can make about personnel upgrades. But friends dismiss the oft-repeated notion that Jackson would want full control over personnel and that he could not coexist with Thomas.
 ''I don't think he's interested in being both general manager and coach,'' Winter said. ''But I think he'd like to have some say in the kind of players he's coaching.''
 Most successful N.B.A. coaches have a say in player-personnel decisions. Jackson is known to be highly selective, desiring players with a high basketball intellect, passing skills and a team-oriented mind-set.
 Those skills are important for the passing-oriented triangle offense that Jackson has used with such success, and Thomas is already a fan of the offense. He used parts of it when he coached the Indiana Pacers and has discussed its principles with Jackson before.
 Jackson would need assistants who are experts in the triangle and would probably seek to hire some of his former colleagues, possibly including Winter, Jim Cleamons and Kurt Rambis. Winter is semi-retired, Cleamons is an assistant with the New Orleans Hornets and Rambis is working in the Lakers' front office.
 Two of Jackson's former players would also be candidates to join his bench: Ron Harper, who played for Jackson in Chicago and Los Angeles, and Bill Cartwright, the former Bulls center who is now an assistant with the Nets.
 The triangle offense could be an awkward fit for the Knicks. Marbury and Crawford dominate the ball and like to break down defenses through individual skill.
 ''Can they be triangle players? Yes, they probably could be,'' Harper said. ''They can both play basketball, we know that.''
 Crawford disliked the offense when he played in Chicago under Cartwright. But, Harper quipped, ''Cartwright ain't Phil.''
 Jackson is said to be skeptical of Marbury's game. He also has long eschewed traditional point guards, and he had difficulty getting Gary Payton -- a ball-dominating point guard -- to comply with the offense in Los Angeles last season.
 ''These guys are successful players; I don't think there's any problem as long as they're willing to make the commitment to it,'' Winter said of Crawford and Marbury. ''They have to make a commitment to the team concept instead of individual glory. I think both of them would fit nicely into the triangle offense. And that's been Phil's strength. He's been able to sell players on it.''
 Indeed, Jordan mocked the triangle offense before he embraced it. Jordan and Jackson went on to win six championships in Chicago, and Jackson added three more titles in Los Angeles. Along the way, lightly regarded role players -- John Paxson, Jud Buechler, Rick Fox and Derek Fisher among them -- became playoff legends because of the opportunities the offense created.
 ''I think the greatest job Phil ever did was convincing Michael that he could participate in the triangle offense and still lead the league in scoring,'' Hamblen said. 
 ''Michael bought into it, and here we are several years later, several championships later. Phil's great with players and having the ability to get them to do what he wants them to do. I think they would love to be under his leadership, whatever team he should go with.''
 Of course, Jackson's interests run well beyond basketball -- to politics, literature and social issues -- and it is possible he could simply sit out another year, or retire altogether.
 ''He's a well-rounded individual,'' Hamblen said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Phil Jackson coached Michael Jordan, above, and the Bulls to six N.B.A. titles and coached Shaquille O'Neal, top, and the Lakers to three. Jackson, above left, played for the Knicks' title team in 1973, and he and Isiah Thomas, the team president, are considering his return as coach. (Photo by Jeff Haynes/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by Associated Press, 1975)
(Photo by Jason Szenes for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Henny Abrams/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (59%) New York Knickerbockers

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); HOWARD SCHULTZ (55%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (55%) Howard Beck; Isiah Thomas; Phil Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (65%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



673 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: At Davos, the Johnny Appleseed of the digital era shares his ambition to propagate a $100 laptop in developing countries.

BYLINE: By John Markoff

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
NICHOLAS NEGROPONTE, the technology guru from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Laboratory, prowled the halls of the World Economic Forum holding the holy grail for crossing the digital divide: a mock-up of a $100 laptop computer.
 The machine is intriguing because Mr. Negroponte has struck upon a remarkably simple solution for lowering the price of the most costly part of a laptop -- the display -- to $25 or less.
 He has been a passionate advocate of using digital technology to improve the quality of life and erase economic barriers in the developing world since the early 1980's, when he took Apple II computers to Senegal with his colleague Seymour Papert. 
 Now, in partnership with Joseph Jacobson, a physicist at M.I.T., he wants to persuade the education ministries of countries like China to use laptops to replace textbooks.
 He has not yet found a customer. Indeed, his mission has been complicated at Davos 2005 because the digital divide and the information technology industry are no longer the center of attention at this annual intimate gathering of the world's most powerful and wealthy.
 The digital power elite remain in vogue. Bill Gates of Microsoft, Eric Schmidt of Google and Carleton S. Fiorina of Hewlett-Packard played prominent roles, as usual, at the January forum. There was a distinct shift, however, away from geek chic and toward traditional star power: Richard Gere, Sharon Stone, Angelina Jolie and Bono took center stage. 
 The rush to close the digital divide began in earnest at Davos in 1998 during the height of the dot-com era, driven by American executives like John Chambers of Cisco and John Gage of Sun Microsystems. Committees were formed, money was committed and during the next three years the idea of digital equity became a rallying cry for the world's dot-com elite.
 ''It was really cool, but in the end we got nothing done,'' one executive candidly acknowledged.
 At the time, Mr. Gates was a notable skeptic, arguing that it was more important to address basic life necessities -- health and food, for example -- before connecting the world's poorest citizens to the Internet.
 Although he was widely criticized for his remarks then, he now appears to have been vindicated. Mr. Gates was in the thick of the plenary discussions at the 2005 Davos forum -- considering ways of eliminating poverty and disease that do not encompass information technology.
 In a late-evening discussion Jan. 28, however, he acknowledged the shift in emphasis: ''I think it's fascinating that there was no plenary session at Davos this year on how information technology is changing the world.''
 Despite technology's absence from center stage, there was a general consensus that many of the technology companies have dug in for the long haul with significant education initiatives in countries like Jordan and Egypt, with support from companies like Microsoft and Cisco.
 Mr. Negroponte said that he had found initial backing for his laptop plan from Advanced Micro Devices and said that he was in discussions with Google, Motorola, the News Corporation and Samsung for support.
 The device includes a tentlike pop-up display that will use the technology now used in today's rear-projection televisions, in conjunction with an L.E.D. light source.
 Mr. Negroponte said his experience in giving children laptop computers in rural Cambodia had convinced him that low-cost machines would make a fundamental difference when broadly deployed.
 ''You can just give laptops to kids,'' he said, noting that they quickly take advantage of the machines. ''In Cambodia, the first English word out of their mouths is 'Google.'''
 Advanced Micro, Mr. Negroponte's first backer, brought its own low-cost computer initiative to Davos 2005. Hector deJ. Ruiz, the chief executive, said that the company believed that its new Personal Internet Communicator, or PIC, might have a broader market than just developing countries.
 At the 2004 Davos forum, the company started an effort to give half the world's population access to the Internet by 2015. Currently, about 12 percent of the world is connected.
 Now, Mr. Ruiz said, Advanced Micro has been working with a variety of mainstream applications for low-cost computing, ranging from inexpensive Web surfing terminals to digital cash registers.
 The PIC, which sells for $185 without a monitor and comes with a stripped-down version of Microsoft Windows, is housed in a rugged sealed case without a fan. 
 ''With very minor alternations we can create a variety of new platforms,'' he said.
 The box, which Advanced Micro hopes to shrink to the size of a deck of cards soon, has generated a good deal of interest. But the availability of an inexpensive device that can do the work of its higher-priced cousins will undoubtedly create challenges for high-technology companies as they try to sell low-cost versions of hardware and software products that are far more expensive in the developed world.
 Several people at the conference, for example, suggested that Intel had shied away from inexpensive laptops for fear of cannibalizing its fastest-growing market. An Intel executive, speaking at the conference, responded that the company believed in offering computer users a wide variety of options.
 Mr. Negroponte said he was confident that his computers, which run the free Linux operating system, would find a ready market as early as 2006. 
 ''China is important because there are 220 million students,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); TEXTBOOKS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Computers and the Internet; Third World and Developing Countries; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%) World Economic Forum; Advanced Micro Devices Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (78%); BILL GATES (77%); HECTOR DE J RUIZ (59%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (50%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%) John Markoff; Nicholas Negroponte; Hector Ruiz

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (87%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (87%); SENEGAL (79%) Davos (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



674 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Land Could Cost Jets $300 Million

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority wants the Jets to pay nearly $300 million, or nearly three times what the team has offered, for the rights to build a 75,000-seat stadium over the railyard on the Far West Side of Manhattan, according to executives who have been briefed on the negotiations.
 The gap between the two numbers, which are based on each side's land appraisals, sets up a showdown on the value of the property, which represents one of the last hurdles in the Jets' quest for a new home in Manhattan. It is also a final step in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign for a stadium that could be used for the 2012 Olympics if the city's bid for the games is successful.
 For months, both sides have been debating the value of the Long Island Rail Road yard, a roughly 13-acre site between 11th and 12th Avenues, from 30th to 34th Street. Stadium proponents have staked out a position that the land is worthless, while transportation advocates and stadium opponents have demanded that the team pay top dollar for the property, in hopes that a high price will either kill the deal or produce a windfall for the authority. 
 Already, the project has gotten increasingly expensive for the Jets. The team initially agreed to invest $800 million in the stadium, the largest sum ever contributed by a professional team, and to cover all cost overruns. The city and the state agreed to put in $600 million. Since then, the Jets have agreed to pay for several other stadium-related costs, including two pedestrian bridges over the West Side Highway, which are expected to cost about $75 million. In addition, Jets executives say that new construction estimates put their cost at closer to $1 billion -- an amount that does not include any costs for the development rights.
 Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the M.T.A., and Katherine N. Lapp, its executive director, are expected to give the appraisals from both the authority and the Jets to the 23-member authority board today or tomorrow. Mr. Kalikow and the Jets have tentatively agreed that if the two sides reach an impasse they will call on former United States Senator George Mitchell to arbitrate the dispute.
 Because the M.T.A. has so far refused to make its appraisal public, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat of Westchester and chairman of the Assembly Committee on Corporations, Authorities and Commissions, issued a subpoena for the document last week and called for a public hearing on Thursday. It now appears that Mr. Kalikow will appear at the hearing and provide the appraisal.
 The Empire State Development Corporation, the state's economic development arm, is expected to reaffirm its support for the project at a meeting this month, despite opposition from some local residents, West Side politicians and some Broadway theater owners. The stadium still needs approval by legislative leaders in Albany in the coming months and it faces two lawsuits that challenge the project on environmental grounds.
 The only other remaining issue is the negotiation over the railroad yards.
 Mr. Brodsky, along with transit advocates and stadium opponents, has argued that it would be unconscionable for the M.T.A. to give the land away to the Jets at a low price, at a time when the authority is desperately in need of cash just to keep its vast network in proper working order.
 The Bloomberg administration, the Jets and some members of the Pataki administration have argued that the railyard is essentially worthless, because nothing can be built there without an expensive platform that will be paid for by the city and the state.
 The Jets have complained in the past that Gov. George E. Pataki has not pushed Mr. Kalikow to move more quickly. According to several people who know him, Mr. Kalikow has been reluctant to make a ''sweetheart'' deal with the Jets to sell the development rights for a low price when the transportation authority is facing a fare increase and multibillion-dollar deficits in its capital budget.
 But land appraisals are more art than science, especially in Manhattan. The parcel is well west of highly sought neighborhoods. Also, the city recently rezoned much of the Far West Side for high-rise buildings, making development sites suddenly plentiful. Construction of the platform over an active train yard would take 30 months, according to the team's estimates. 
 The property would, however, provide potentially valuable views of the Hudson River in a city that seems to have an unquenchable thirst for housing.
 The M.T.A. puts the value of the entire 560,000-square-foot parcel at nearly $900 million, while the Jets' appraisal puts it at $365 million to $390 million, according to the executives. Because the stadium would account for about one-third of the parcel's 6.5 million square feet of development rights, each side is beginning the negotiation at an amount equal to about one-third of the full appraisal. The M.T.A. anticipates that it could sell the remaining rights to other development projects at almost $135 a square foot.
 The Jets' appraisal puts the value of the development rights at a much lower figure, anticipating that no developer would be able to build as much as the M.T.A. suggests. The team's appraisal also discounts the price because of potential environmental risks and the premium for building over an active railyard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); THEATER (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); SUBPOENAS (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Football

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%) Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (69%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (50%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005



675 of 675 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: On Eve of Jury Selection, Jackson Begs for Fair Trial

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Jeff Leeds contributed reporting from Los Angeles for this article.

DATELINE: SANTA MARIA, Calif., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Fourteen months after a small army of sheriff's deputies laid siege to Michael Jackson's Neverland ranch seeking evidence of lewd acts by Mr. Jackson with a 13-year-old cancer patient, jury selection is set to begin on Monday in California's latest and greatest celebrity show trial.
 With his liberty, his livelihood and what is left of his reputation riding on the outcome of the trial, Mr. Jackson made a pre-emptive move on Sunday. He released a videotaped statement, approved by the judge, in which Mr. Jackson responded to reputed grand jury reports leaked to the news media over the last few weeks that said his accuser, who is now 15, had testified that the entertainer groped him and plied him with alcohol two years ago.
 On Sunday, Mr. Jackson denied the accusations against him, pleaded for a fair hearing from the jury and the public, and predicted he would ultimately be ''acquitted and vindicated.'' 
 ''In the last few weeks, a large amount of ugly, malicious information has been released into the media about me,'' Mr. Jackson said in the video, which he released on his Web site www.mjjsource.com. ''Apparently, this information was leaked through transcripts in a grand jury proceeding where neither my lawyers, nor I, ever appeared. The information is disgusting and false.''
 The entertainer said he had invited the boy and his family to stay at his Neverland ranch because they had told him the boy was ill with cancer and needed his help. Over the years, he said, he has helped thousands of similar children who were ill or in distress.
 ''These events have caused a nightmare for my family, my children and me,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''I never intend to place myself in so vulnerable a position ever again.
 ''I love my community, and I have great faith in our justice system. Please keep an open mind and let me have my day in court,'' he continued. ''I deserve a fair trial like every other American citizen. I will be acquitted and vindicated when the truth is told.'' 
 Mr. Jackson's life and music career have seemed on a downward spiral for the past decade, beginning with similar accusations involving sex with a young boy in 1993, which Mr. Jackson settled out of court for $15 million to $20 million.
 The attention this new case has generated has further damaged the onetime King of Pop's already bizarre image and slashed his economic value. Music industry executives said conviction on some or all of the counts against him could effectively end his career as a public performer, although he still stands to profit from royalties on music catalogs he controls.
 Mr. Jackson, 46, is expected to be in court on Monday as the first of hundreds of prospective jurors are screened for service on a trial that court officials project will last into the summer. Nearly 1,000 reporters, photographers, television technicians and courtroom artists have applied for credentials to cover the trial, which will be re-enacted nightly by a combined British-American television group that includes E! Entertainment.
 Months of pretrial maneuvering have already produced thousands of pages of legal pleadings and teased a global audience awaiting the lurid details of Mr. Jackson's extravagant and eccentric life at his 2,700-acre private Xanadu in the hills between Santa Maria and Santa Barbara.
 The case itself offers all the elements of a pop culture roundelay, including a music superstar who likens himself to Peter Pan; a grandfatherly prosecutor who has pursued him for 12 years; a silver-maned chief defense lawyer who is a colorful defender of the famous and the downtrodden alike; and a scandal-saturated media horde, many of them fresh from the Scott Peterson murder case. And throngs of Jackson groupies are promising daily courthouse rallies.
 Court documents and pretrial arguments indicate that evidence will include testimony from experts on Mr. Jackson's finances, sexually explicit books and magazines taken from Mr. Jackson's bedroom, notes written by the performer to his young accuser, and a pair of white briefs, boy's size small.
 The stern ringmaster in the case, Judge Rodney S. Melville of Santa Barbara County Superior Court, has conducted the pretrial action under extraordinary secrecy. The judge sealed virtually every piece of paper and silenced all the lawyers and other parties to the case under threat of jail time.
 The lawyers have complied with the judge's order silencing them. But hundreds of pages of explicit grand jury testimony recently leaked out and have hurtled around the globe on the Internet and on ABC News programs.
 In the final pretrial hearing before Judge Melville on Friday, Gordon Auchincloss, one of the lead prosecutors, said he expected the trial to produce ''scorched-earth combat.'' ''There's no mystery this will be a very contentious lawsuit,'' Mr. Auchincloss said.
 Judge Melville, offering his final commentary before the legal winds begin to howl on Monday, noted dryly that he had felt a marked increase in tension around the courthouse. ''Tempers are beginning to get short,'' he said. ''There is a lot of pressure on everyone to have a case of such public scrutiny.''
 The defense team, led by Thomas A. Mesereau Jr., has made it clear it is going to put the accuser and his family on trial, accusing them of changing their stories and seeking to extort millions from Mr. Jackson. And the defense lawyers clearly intend to put the state on trial as well, beginning with the Santa Barbara County district attorney, Thomas W. Sneddon Jr., who they contend has a long-running vendetta against Mr. Jackson.
 After his first run-in with Mr. Sneddon over the 1993 pedophilia accusations, Mr. Jackson wrote a satirical song about a ''Dom Sheldon'' who ''really tried to take me down by surprise.'' The song's refrain, rendered ''Dom Sheldon is a cold man'' in the liner notes, sounds very much like ''Tom Sneddon'' on the album.
 Mr. Sneddon, in his sixth and final four-year term as district attorney, is leading the prosecution himself. He was asked early on if he believed Mr. Jackson had gotten away with a crime in 1993. ''I think there's a sense in the public that he did that,'' Mr. Sneddon said. ''My feeling about this is I'm sad that there's another victim out there.'' 
 The trial will exert pressure on Mr. Jackson's financial empire, which has appeared increasingly fragile in recent years. Even his close advisers say he is an extravagant spender whose wealth has been eroded by an overly lavish lifestyle, poor investments and a rogue's gallery of business associates. 
 Mr. Jackson has taken out an estimated $270 million in loans from Bank of America Corporation, backed by his two major music-publishing catalogs, and at least part of the debt must be repaid -- or refinanced -- by early 2006, according to advisers close to Mr. Jackson. 
 For his income, Mr. Jackson relies heavily on the profits from the two publishing companies, which generate sales when the songs they own are recorded or licensed for commercials, films and the like. There has been speculation for years that Mr. Jackson might put his publishing assets on the auction block to pay off his loans, and there is little doubt that such a move could help clear his balance sheet. 
 Mijac Music, which holds the copyrights to Mr. Jackson's own hit compositions and other songs, including ''People Get Ready'' by Curtis Mayfield, has been valued at roughly $75 million. Mr. Jackson's share of Sony/ATV, a joint venture with the Sony Corporation that holds rights to the Beatles hits, is worth perhaps $400 million or more, music executives say.
 Mr. Jackson's worth as a performer, once of incalculable value but steadily declining for years, hinges on the outcome of the trial, industry executives said.
 ''If he's convicted, that'd be a tough mountain to climb,'' said Steve Rennie, the former West Coast general manager for Sony's Epic Records label, which releases Mr. Jackson's albums. But even if he is acquitted, the prospects for a lucrative new contract appear dim, Mr. Rennie said, noting that Mr. Jackson's music is extremely expensive to produce.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Rennie said, Mr. Jackson still could cash in on the international concert circuit, and even perhaps profit from his new notoriety. 
 ''Forgetting Michael Jackson's personal circus, there was never a more electrifying performer, ever,'' he said. ''It's a big world out there. I think there are promoters that would step up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The public is already having its say on the trial, pro and con. Diane Horne, right, is with Parents United Against Child Sexual Abuse International.
Outside Santa Barbara County Superior Court, the requisites of a celebrity trial are in place, including television satellite trucks and street barricades.
 In a video statement on Sunday, Michael Jackson said he would be ''acquitted and vindicated.'' (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (84%); SHERIFFS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACQUITTAL (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (74%); LAWYERS (74%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); JUDGES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); RECORD REVENUES (64%); ROYALTIES (60%) Sex Crimes; Child Abuse and Neglect; Recordings (Video); Jury System; Alcohol Abuse; News and News Media ; Sex Crimes

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (94%) John M Broder; Michael Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Santa Barbara (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

 
