

401 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; What Should Kerry Do?; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Trading Up

BYLINE: By Bob Kerrey. 
Bob Kerrey, president of New School University, was a Democratic senator from Nebraska from 1989 to 2001 and a member of the 9/11 commission.

 BODY:
In a campaign that has been devoted to Vietnam, Iraq and the economy, there is one issue that John Kerry would do well to bring up, an issue that has received little attention this political season: trade. I would love to see Senator Kerry announce that if elected he will immediately convene a summit meeting on international trade and globalism to be held in Columbus, Ohio. He should announce that the meeting will be an annual event and that he intends to invite American business, political, and education leaders to join him. 
 The meeting's agenda would not be so different from what the campaign's agenda should be -- to help us reduce our current trade account deficit, to forge a plan to increase the size and vitality of our middle class, to design a way to ensure health and retirement benefits in an age of growing uncertainty, to see to it that we sustain the public and private investment needed for growth, to construct an agriculture policy that promotes healthy rural communities in America and around the world, and to balance our desire for growth with our need to conserve natural resources. 
 No issue is going to strain the political process in the United States more than trade. Here's one illustration: today nearly 25 percent of the clothing Americans buy is manufactured in China. The percentage would be higher except that quotas are imposed on some Chinese imports. Those quotas are set to expire next year. Even with strict enforcement of anti-dumping statutes, it is likely that millions of jobs in the United States will not survive the competitive reach of Chinese factories. 
 These losses have been putting pressure on low-skilled, low-wage workers in the United States for years. As China and India continue their phenomenal growth, the pressure will grow and expand into the ranks of skilled, middle-class workers. The effect is that millions of Americans will become poor, dependent on the government, uninsured and increasingly desperate. Correctly observing the benefits to consumers of inexpensive foreign goods does not mean we do not need a response other than to spend more tax dollars to support those who have been hurt. 
 Senator Kerry has resisted considerable pressure from fellow Democrats to adopt protectionist trade policies. He has advocated providing more public money to help working Americans buy health insurance and he has proposed modest increases in public and private investments. He has also suggested that we do away with tax breaks that encourage companies to shift jobs overseas. None of these, however, add up to a sufficient response to the demands of our new economic world -- especially since Congress and the American people seem so terribly divided on what should be done. 
 The Columbus Summit meeting would be a means of giving our political, education and business leaders a venue at which they can reach consensus on trade and globalism. With the damage being done by trade deficits, inadequate savings and investment, and the growing numbers of poor, uninsured Americans, it is vitally important for this consensus to be found. 
 However, it simply will not and probably cannot be found during a modern presidential campaign. That is something Senator Kerry must promise to do if he is elected in November. The Columbus meeting would be the means of keeping that promise -- and a way of telling the American people that he is the person to lead them through this vexing time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); POLITICS (72%); TAX LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); AGRICULTURE (52%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; International Trade and World Market; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%) Bob Kerrey; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



402 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Good News: Turnaround Specialists Are Gloomy

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
ATTENDING a meeting of turnaround professionals during a time of economic recovery is a little like going to a mortician's convention after a drug company introduces a blockbuster drug for a fatal illness. There's good news, but not for everyone.
 The economy, according to economists and those politicians currently in office, is expanding. Interest rates remain low. Many companies are sailing along aided in large part by cheap access to capital, three commercial credit executives told the Long Island chapter of the National Turnaround Association on Sept. 8 at the Milleridge Inn in Jericho. 
 For turnaround specialists -- a category that includes bankruptcy lawyers and liquidators, factors and auctioneers, and perhaps a dozen other job descriptions that come calling when a company goes on death watch -- good economic news is not necessarily welcome news.
 Whether it was because they now have more time on their hands or because their ranks have expanded, the program drew 140 people, the best-attended program so far this year.
 ''This is quite a crowd,'' Jeffrey A. Wurst, the outgoing chapter president, said, beaming.
 Terrence J. Ullrich, president of J.P. Morgan Business Credit, a New York City-based lending arm of JPMorgan Chase, spoke first. 
 ''It's probably a slow period for turnaround professionals now,'' Mr. Ullrich said. The fixed expressions on the faces in his audience suggested this was not the first time they had heard this news.
 Another visitor from the city, Victor D. Russo, president of CIT Commercial Finance's business credit unit, spoke next, to the same effect.
 ''There is a lot of liquidity and a decent economy'' these days, Mr. Russo said. His assessment: ''This isn't a very good time to be in the turnaround profession.''
 He was followed by Martin McKinley, president of Wells Fargo Business Credit in Minneapolis. Mr. McKinley, a past chairman and president of the association, an international body with some 6,700 members, didn't sugarcoat his remarks, either.
 ''The opportunities for turnaround professionals are few'' these days, he said. ''There has been some attrition in the field. And there will be more.''
 As far as the economy and the commercial lending industry went, the speakers were sanguine, delivering what was essentially a rosy take.
 Their optimism cast something of a pall over the crowd, which was mute for several minutes after the formal presentations finished. Stephen B. Mischo, the panel moderator and since Monday the incoming chapter president, had to prod repeatedly to provoke questions. Ronald R. Fink, a turnaround specialist in the audience that night, said the panelists told him nothing new.
 ''The turnaround business has been slower than the year before, and the year before was slower than the year before that,'' said Mr. Fink, president of Tono-Bungay Consulting in Port Washington. ''The panelists were all saying that for the last year the number of new turnaround problems that have popped up on radar screens has been very slim. That is absolutely true. What we are seeing in the turnaround business is that inventory, which is what we call existing problems, are cleaning themselves up.''
 But Mr. Fink said the speakers' forecasts suggested a brighter future for his line of work.
 ''Lenders as a group are starting to make riskier and riskier deals to be competitive,'' he said. ''They are afraid that with a blip in the economy those deals, which are O.K. now, are going to become problems. That's the way it has always been in this business. Its countercyclical to the general economy.''
 Under Mr. Wurst, the outgoing president, the turnaround chapter has completed a turnaround of its own.
 Mr. Wurst is a former Oceanside High School music teacher who earned a law degree and passed his bar exams at age 38, in 1987, and joined Ruskin Moscou Faltischek. Today, he is chairman of the Uniondale law firm's financial services, banking and bankruptcy department. He joined the Turnaround Association's local chapter in 1999.
 The chapter, which began in 1998 with about 25 members, grew to 70 members by 2000. The following year it added 10 more. Then, even as the economy imploded, the chapter stopped growing. It fact, it shrank by several members
 The association's national office in Chicago took note, and put the chapter on its watch list.
 Mr. Wurst said two chapter trustees approached him the summer of 2002 and suggested he run for president. ''I was flattered,'' Mr. Wurst recalled, and agreed with one condition. (Mr. Wurst is a lawyer, after all.)
 ''The term of office was then one year,'' he said. ''I thought it would take me two years to move my agenda. The board met and agreed to modify the bylaws, adapting a two-year presidency.'' Mr. Wurst said his plan was to help the chapter grow by making the meetings more conducive to striking up potential business relationships. He initiated a monthly mixer -- no program, just after-work socializing at the Davenport Press, a pub in Mineola.
 Tapping techniques he once used to recruit recalcitrant musicians into the Oceanside High band, Mr. Wurst made it a point to greet prospective members at events and mixers, and introduced them around.
 ''Give me your business card, and right away I'm thinking, 'Who can I introduce you to?''' Mr. Wurst said.
 Chapter membership began to rebound. Enrollment reached 102 at the end of 2003. Last week, Mr. Wurst, still eagerly recruiting prospects, brought the tally to 117. 
 ''I picked up three new members last night,'' Mr. Wurst said, one day after the lender's forum.
 This month, national headquarters in Chicago removed the chapter from its watch list and gave it an award for most improved chapter. Mr. Mischo, the incoming chapter president and a vice president at State Bank of Long Island, praised Mr. Wurst's interpersonal skills.
 ''Jeff is the consummate networker,'' Mr. Mischo said. ''He is probably better at that than anybody I've ever met.''
 Mr. Wurst said that turning the chapter around was not all that different from turning a company around. ''The first thing you have to do,'' he said, ''is face up to the problem. It's like treating an alcoholic. The patient has to face up to the behavior and change it, or he won't survive.''
 He continued: ''Our problem was we needed to build membership. To do that, we needed to make it easier for people to do business together.''
 Even the panelists' optimism didn't faze him. If they insisted on depicting the economic glass as being half full, Mr. Wurst was prepared to say it might just as well be half empty. 
 ''Banks are sitting on billions of dollars, capital that isn't being used,'' he said, echoing Mr. Fink's line of reasoning. ''To get loans, I suspect they're lowering their standards. At some point, those loans are going to get into trouble.''
 And trouble, when you're in the turnaround business, is not a bad thing.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen B. Mischo, left, president-elect of the Long Island chapter of the National Turnaround Association, was the moderator of a forum where Victor D. Russo, left, president of CIT Commercial Finance's business credit unit
Terrence J. Ullrich, president of J.P. Morgan Business Credit
 and Martin McKinley, president of Wells Fargo Business Credit, fielded questions. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%) United States Economy; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); WELLS FARGO BUSINESS CREDIT INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Cit Group Inc; Morgan, J P, & Co; Wells Fargo & Co; National Turnaround Assn

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: Victor Russo; Terrence Ullrich; Martin Mckinley; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



403 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The World -- Dark Age; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Putin Gambles On Raw Power

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
COUNTRIES react differently to terror. After the Sept. 11 attacks, Americans rallied behind their government of their own free will. After the Madrid train bombings last March, Spaniards ousted theirs. President Vladimir V. Putin took steps last week that seem to ensure that Russians will do neither.
 After modern Russia's worst terrorist act -- the horrifying seizure of a school that ended with more than 300 hostages dead -- Mr. Putin ordered an overhaul of the political system, stripping Russians of their right to elect their governors and district representatives in Parliament. Mr. Putin's response seemed like a non sequitur, since how the country conducts its elections on the regional level has little, if anything, to do with fighting the terrorism that war in Chechnya has spawned. But there was a logic to it, at least for Mr. Putin and his supporters, and it was one that dashed -- perhaps decisively -- hopes here and abroad that Russia had left behind its long, tortured history of authoritarianism when the Soviet Union collapsed. 
 Democracy, Mr. Putin suggested in remarks after the school siege, does not result in stability, but rather instability. It does not unify, but rather divides. The principal threat posed by democracy in Russia today, he made clear on separate occasions in the last two weeks, lies in simmering ethnic and religious tensions along the rim of Russia where ethnically non-Russian people live. That division, he suggested, can only be controlled with an iron hand from above.
 The attack on the school in Beslan was a watershed in a country that has had its share of them in history. And to Mr. Putin's critics, it confirmed their fears that, instinctively, he puts his faith in the Kremlin's unquestioned authority as the force to hold Russia together.
 In the tragic arc of Russian history, it has always been so -- even if, in the end, the rigid power of the center has always failed.
 A theme of those who accepted Mr. Putin's prescription was distrust of the unruliness of electoral will in a country with deep ethnic, social, class and religious divisions.
 It was those divisions that the fighters who seized the school -- terrorists loyal to the Chechen separatist commander Shamil Basayev -- seemed eager to stoke when they struck in multiethnic North Ossetia.
 They seemed well aware that what Russia has failed to do in more than 13 years of post-Soviet politics is develop a sense of national identity that might overcome those divisions. Indeed, in the southern and Asian areas where Russia's Muslim groups live, an ardent religious identification is threatening to take its place. 
 ''We live in conditions of aggravated internal conflicts and interethnic conflicts that before were harshly suppressed by the governing ideology,'' Mr. Putin said the night after the siege in Beslan ended on Sept. 3. In his speech, he lamented the demise of ''a huge, great country,'' the Soviet Union, and rued the forces of disorder that its dissolution unleashed in Russia.
 He returned to the theme four days later when he met with a group of American and European academics and analysts. Media accounts afterward focused on his pointed rebuff of calls to negotiate with Chechnya's separatists, whom he equated with Al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. More telling about his plans to come was his reference to an obscure electoral dispute in Karachayevo-Cherkessia, one of the troubled republics of the North Caucasus.
 In 1999, a disputed presidential election split the republic's two main ethnic groups, the Karachai and the Cherkess. As Mr. Putin recounted it, only his intervention -- as prime minister, at the time -- averted a civil war.
 Clifford Kupchan, vice president of the Nixon Center in Washington, attended the meeting with Mr. Putin, and summarized Mr. Putin's dark view of democracy as ''one man, one vote, one war.''
 ''Given that Russia is not a melting pot, but rather a fragmented pot,'' Mr. Kupchan said in an interview, ''he does not believe that democracy is the solution.''
 As he has before, Mr. Putin insisted last week that Russia remained on a democratic course, but he did so more reservedly than ever. When he announced his political overhaul on Monday, he said, ''we must also, of course, react adequately to everything happening within the country.''
 In the turbulent years since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, Russia's embrace of democracy -- and Mr. Putin's -- has always been awkward.
 The country's Constitution, written in 1993 after President Boris N. Yeltsin ordered the shelling of Parliament to roust defiant legislators, codifies basic democratic freedoms. In practice, though, democracy has been treated as little more than a license for a well-positioned few to steal and loot the old Soviet assets and to exploit Russians' baser instincts, especially when it comes to ethnic minorities.
 Grigory A. Yavlinsky, one of the country's most prominent liberals, said the public's concept of democracy had been tainted by financial scandals and crises, by the consolidation of wealth in the hands of a few well-connected billionaires, by a decade of war in Chechnya, and lately by a wave of terrorist attacks, staged not in symbols of grandeur like skyscrapers and government buildings, but in places chillingly familiar to virtually every Russian: trains, subways, airplanes, a theater and, worst, a school.
 ''All this period of time was called democracy,'' Mr. Yavlinsky said in an interview. ''The people looked at it and said, 'If that is democracy, then, thank you very much.''' But he added, angrily: ''All these things had nothing in common with democracy. It was Potemkin democracy.''
 During his presidency, Mr. Putin has shown little enthusiasm for the democratic experience. He has smothered political opponents, wrested control of independent television and manipulated the outcome of regional elections, none more so than the two presidential elections in Chechnya, where loyalists were elected by Soviet-like margins last October and again last month, after credible challengers were struck from the ballots.
 Still, until Monday, Mr. Putin had never before reversed the fundamental democratic right of representation through the ballot -- a right enshrined in the Constitution's letter and spirit, according to his critics. Under his proposal, which the Parliament will almost certainly adopt since it is dominated by parties loyal to him, Mr. Putin will appoint governors, presidents or other leaders who are now elected in each of country's 89 regions. Mr. Putin's proposals also would eliminate the district elections that choose half of the 450 seats in Parliament; instead, they will be selected based on national party lists drafted in Moscow in close consultation with Mr. Putin's Kremlin.
 What was striking last week was how many Russian elected officials heartily endorsed Mr. Putin's plan.
 ''Elections are often dirty, with money from the shadow economy and criminal groups trying to influence the results,'' Valentina I. Matviyenko, the governor of St. Petersburg, told Itar-Tass on Wednesday as she fell into line behind a proposal that would deny her much of her electoral legitimacy and political authority. (She was elected last fall and, apparently, knew whereof she spoke.) ''All this causes concern and alarm.''
 Her counterpart, Murat M. Zyazikov, president of the semi-autonomous republic of Ingushetia, who was elected with the Kremlin's help, echoed her fears. In a telephone interview, he said that elections had turned into ''competitions between people with more money, which resulted in tensions in society.''
 ''Western and human values are very close to us, but we have our own way of development,'' he said. ''I think this was done in order to consolidate society.''
 In other words, it would seem, ''the people have spoken'' remains a phrase that strikes fear in Russia's ruling elite, which presumes to know better what is better for the country.
 ''It is soft Stalinism,'' Mr. Yavlinsky said.
 He and others have spoken out against Mr. Putin's reordering, but they have done so from the margins. A rally organized by Mr. Yavlinsky's Yabloko party -- with posters of Mr. Putin as Hitler -- drew a handful of protesters. A few of the 15 independent members of Parliament voiced objections and then admitted there was little they could do to stop Mr. Putin.
 The most prominent criticism came from the two men who, arguably, did much to create the system Russia has today, for better or worse. In twinned essays that appeared on Friday in the newsweekly Moskovskiye Novosti, Mr. Yeltsin and Mikhail S. Gorbachev wrote that Russia should preserve the democratic gains of the last 13 years.
 ''Strangling freedoms and curtailing democratic rights,'' Mr. Yeltsin wrote, ''marks, among other things, the victory of terrorists.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Mirko Ilic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%) Politics and Government; Education and Schools; Hostages; Terrorism; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; United States International Relations

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%) Steven Lee Myers; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Russia; Beslan (Russia); Chechnya (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



404 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2602 words

HEADLINE: No Crowds of Commuters Here

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: SECAUCUS 

 BODY:
IT is a getaway Friday afternoon, and the roads in New Jersey are already thickening with cars. On the radio 1010 WINS is warning of troubles on the bridges and in the tunnels. The swarms are beginning their descent on the train stations in Hoboken and Newark. 
 In Secaucus, it is as quiet as the dead of night. 
 About 30 people are seated on benches in the soaring rotunda of the Frank R. Lautenberg Rail Station at Secaucus Junction, which at $609 million is easily one of the most expensive buildings ever sunk into the swamps of New Jersey. A dozen commuters slog through the vast, largely vacant station that will cost $6.5 million to run this year. A New Jersey Transit police officer acknowledges that things are normally pretty slow around here, and commuters echo his sentiment. 
 ''There's never anyone here,'' is how David Rosen, a 36-year-old computer programmer from Montvale, put it as he sat on a bench and flipped through a magazine. 
 It has been a little more than a year since the sprawling station -- hailed by the governor and the executive director of New Jersey Transit as one that would ''revolutionize'' transportation in the state -- officially opened for business.
 Apparently the word has not spread.
 Yes, some of the commuters who pass through the cream-colored marble interior shave as much as 15 minutes off of their trips into the city. And for the first time in the state's history, 9 of the 11 lines of the entire New Jersey Transit rail system now link up in Secaucus, allowing easier access into the city from Bergen and Passaic Counties. 
 But it is the future that transit officials are aiming for. They see the new station as a catalyst for rail connections to other parts of the state, like the Meadowlands Sports Complex, whose link is scheduled for completion in 2007.
 ''I think, ultimately, 15 years from now, it will be looked at as a great investment,'' said Martin E. Robins, director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers University, and one of the founders of New Jersey Transit. ''Right now, it's problematic.''
 Indeed, problems large and small abound. There are ambitious development plans -- hailed as a linchpin on the project --that have been stalled. There are riders who complain of long waits on platforms that reek of a funky marsh smell. There is a paucity of riders in the waiting rooms that broil in the summer and freeze in the winter. There is a computerized announcer who seems oblivious to train delays. There was a meager advertising campaign -- widely ignored -- to get people to ride the train. And there is no place to park.
 Since the project was begun two decades ago, planners have been making lofty claims about the number of people who would pass through the station. In 1992, developers boasted that eventually 70,000 riders a day would use the station. Throughout the 1990's, transit officials said that by 2010, about 32,000 passengers would make their way to the station. Two years ago, that figure was scaled back even more, to 16,500. For the first six months of this year, the number of riders was projected to be 7,500. But in May, after six months of operation, the number stood at a mere 5,600. By way of comparison, Pennsylvania Station in Newark handles 12,000 commuters on an average weekday, and Hoboken 19,000.
 Still, New Jersey Transit officials insist that they are not discouraged by the numbers, contending that in time, the riders will come. ''For the first time we're getting ahead of the demand curve,'' George D. Warrington, executive director of New Jersey Transit, said in an interview. ''And if you look at the plans for commercial and residential development for New Jersey and the Meadowlands and Midtown Manhattan, we will look back in a few years and say, 'Thank God we have Secaucus.''' 
 Officials and advocates of the station offer a variety of explanations for the dearth of customers: The high price of an advertising campaign in New York -- particularly for a cash-starved transit system -- is prohibitively expensive; the station's benefits may not be as readily apparent as, say, Midtown Direct service; and old habits -- like taking the bus or driving the car -- die hard. 
 ''You have 30 to 40 years of ingrained thinking in that area,'' said Douglas J. Bowen, president of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, an advocacy group. ''The thinking becomes ossified, and that takes time to change.''
 To change that thinking, New Jersey Transit plans to begin rolling out a new advertising campaign this fall that will not promote the station itself but rather destinations that use the station as a link like the Meadowlands, the shore, the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark and Madison Square Garden. In addition, New Jersey Transit plans to offer discounts to college-age students to get them into the habit of using trains to get around the state.

Promotion 'Is a Challenge'
 ''I think the promotion of the Secaucus Transfer is a challenge,'' Mr. Robins said. ''It takes some marketing bravado to reach this group of people.'' 
 For his part, he laid part of the blame at the feet of previous transportation officials in Bergen and Passaic Counties, who he said were not early advocates of the plan. 
 All of this comes against a tight budget backdrop, one in which New Jersey Transit has had to continue to raid its long-term capital funds -- more and more every year -- to pay its day-to-day expenses, a budgeting gimmick that transit officials agree is detrimental to the future health of the system. 
 This year, however, there was some good news of sorts. For the first time in several years, the amount of money that the agency is taking from the capital budget is about the same as it was a year ago, $356 million. 
 The fact is, the low ridership is not completely the fault of New Jersey Transit. The Pascack Valley Line, which should be a bulwark, operates a schedule that is almost laughably limited for a line that slashes through some of the most populous parts of the state. It has only one track, a limited schedule in and out of Hoboken, and no weekend service. The last inbound train of the day leaves Spring Valley, N.Y., at 7:58 a.m., and there are no more inbound trains after that. And outbound service does not start until 1:42 p.m.
 ''The last train I can catch is 8:30 in the morning,'' said Jessica Slota, a 26-year-old market researcher who has been taking the train from River Edge to Secaucus to Pennsylvania Station for four months. ''Eight-thirty. That's the last train in the morning. And it doesn't work on weekends.''
 To improve service, New Jersey Transit had plans to build four ''sidings'' on the line, which would allow for two-way travel on the tracks. But earlier this year, nine Bergen County towns joined together to sue the agency, claiming that the project would only encourage freight train travel on the line and clog traffic at street crossings. A hearing on the matter is scheduled for Sept. 24 in Bergen County Superior Court.
 For its part, New Jersey Transit denies that it would run more freight service on the line. In an interview last week, Mr. Warrington said that New Jersey Transit had shifted direction and would not build one of the sidings in Oradell, a town that had strongly objected to the plan.
 Now, transit officials say, work should be completed by 2007.
 Despite these problems, there are commuters who could not be more pleased with the station. These are people who once slogged through the daily traffic on herky-jerky buses that line the Lincoln Tunnel, or who had to take three trains to get from Bergen County to Newark. Many now save up to 15 minutes each way. And some, like Mr. Rosen, are delighted with the service even though it takes 25 minutes longer than his old 320 bus, which he would get at the park-and-ride in North Bergen.
 ''The only problem is the time,'' he said ''but there's not a lot I can do about it.'' 
 Much of that time, he said, is spent waiting in the station for a train to Montvale, where he lives.
 ''I like the train better,'' he said. ''I don't like the time better.''
 The waiting time is a bugaboo for many officials and transit experts, who say they are consistently tinkering with timetables to make passing through the station easier. Most commuters say that the morning rush is linked up well, with waits usually not exceeding 10 minutes. But the afternoon is another matter, when people like Mr. Rosen say they wait an average of 20 minutes for their train. In response, Mr. Warrington said the agency planned to phase in around-the-clock service on the Northeast Corridor line in the next three to five years to reduce waiting times.
 But then there is the station itself, where officials have had to deal with a host of problems. Some riders complain that when the days are warm, many of the platforms exude a strange, marshy smell. Others say the waiting rooms are stuffy in the summer and chilly in the winter. Escalators are frequently broken. And a computerized female announcer pleasantly -- albeit incorrectly -- insists that trains are on time when they are not even close.

Addressing the Complaints
 Jim Redeker, an assistant executive director of New Jersey Transit, said that he has heard many of these complaints, and is working to fix them. As for the waiting room, Mr. Redeker attributed the problems to doors blowing open as express trains pass and said that officials were trying to figure out how to make the doors heavier.
 But perhaps the biggest disappointment has been the stalled efforts to develop office towers, a hotel and shops around the site, a part of the project that was seen as essential for the success of the transfer station. 
 ''People who want to see this development come on line are impatient to see that come on line,'' said Lynn Bowersox, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Transit. ''We're impatient to see this happen.'' 
 Indeed, officials have long emphasized the importance of building there, despite the objections of many officials and residents alike in Secaucus.
 ''It's always been my belief that to build a transfer station out there without putting in other development is not a wise move because you'd end up with a station out in the middle of no man's land,'' Richard T. Roberts, the chief planner at New Jersey Transit and a former chief of transportation at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said in a 1992 interview. ''And that is no man's land.''
 Even those who have been relentlessly upbeat about the station, like the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, acknowledge that Secaucus is a white elephant financially. ''The whole thing was for the 'City in the Swamp,''' said Mr. Bowen, the rail advocate. ''We weren't enthusiastic about it.'' 
 It was not supposed to be this way.
 In the 1970's, the Allied Junction Corporation of South Hackensack bought 28 acres of land from the now-defunct Erie-Lackawana railroad and waited. In 1993, after years of discussion, it entered into a complex agreement with the state to build the station. The plan called for 3.5 million square feet of office space, built in five towers atop the station, a 600-room hotel and 112,000 square feet of shops. Under the arrangement, Allied Junction would pay New Jersey Transit for some of the construction, and 36 cents for every square foot of rentable space on the property. 
 For its part, New Jersey Transit contributed $15 million for I-beams atop the station that would act as reinforcement when the towers were built.
 But as the 90's dragged on, the economy was dragged down and the station was being built, Allied -- a billboard company that had no experience in real estate development -- failed to attract any investors. As construction on the station progressed, it became clear that Allied would not have the money to pay for its share in realigning a part of the track, something it had agreed to do. So in 2001, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority essentially bailed out the cash-strapped company to complete construction on the station. Allied Junction now owes the state $140 million, but it will not have to pay a dime if nothing is developed by 2011.
 The situation has left relations between the developer and the state somewhat strained. In fact, matters had deteriorated so badly by last year and development of the site had lagged to such an extent, according to sources in the state who insisted on anonymity, that New Jersey Transit began working on plans to seize complete control of the development rights from Allied Junction.
 Some high-level officials have gone so far as to call the plan to put millions of square feet of office in the middle of the swamp a ''pipe dream,'' and one that the taxpayers of New Jersey will end up paying for. The coup de grace came with the disappearance of the name ''Allied Junction'' from any reference to the station, with the exception of one marker outside the bus and car entrance, which sits among a cluster of cultivated cattails and wordily proclaims: ''Frank R. Lautenberg Secaucus Rail Station at Allied Junction.'' 
 In a recent interview, Mr. Warrington insisted that Allied Junction had attracted serious interest to the site. 
 ''We look forward to that development taking off,'' he said. ''They've briefed us that they are in active discussions with some well-financed development partners'' who ''have an eye on both Midtown Manhattan development and Secaucus as an adjunct facility.'' He declined to say how much space it was interested in taking.
 Marc Joseph, the chief operating officer for Allied Junction, confirmed that talks had taken place, though was displeased with Mr. Warrington's disclosure. ''So much for confidentiality,'' Mr. Joseph commented.
 With that, he explained that a letter of intent had been signed by a party interested in developing all of the 3.5 million square feet and 100,000 square feet of retail space at the site. 
 Mr. Joseph said he, too, was frustrated with his company's inability to develop the space faster, but blamed market conditions for the lag. He said he had been unaware that New Jersey Transit had considered seizing the site, though he said he knew of its dismay.

Development Has Lagged
 ''It's taken us a long time, perhaps longer than we ourselves anticipated, in generating interest in the project,'' he said. ''We never gave up our intention to proceed to complete fruition.''
 But other officials in the state say that development at the site will probably be on a much more modest scale than originally envisioned. And as it currently stands, there is no parking at the station, even though 4,400 spaces were called for in the original plan. Ms. Bowersox and Mr. Joseph said that New Jersey Transit was considering some kind of parking plan for the site, though it was unclear how much space would be approved. 
 Some close to the situation say the rail agency had better decide quickly, since next year there will be entrance and exit ramps to the station from the New Jersey Turnpike, which runs parallel to the tracks there. ''I get calls saying: 'I want to use the station. Where do I park,''' said Mr. Joseph. ''I say: 'Don't call me. Call New Jersey Transit.'''
 Despite the problems, there have been hopeful signs as well. In July the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission approved development of 1,850 apartments for a so-called ''Transit Village'' adjacent to the station. 
 The challenge in making the station and its development work is daunting, said Mr. Robins of Rutgers, and New Jersey Transit has its work cut out.
 ''I think they have a big job here,'' he said. ''They have to do more.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: New Jersey Transit riders who use the Secaucus station -- far fewer than anticipated -- complain of long waits on platforms that reek of a funky marsh smell. (Photographs by Jim Cummins for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Frank R. Lautenberg Rail Station at Secaucus Junction -- which cost $609 million to build -- is one of the most expensive buildings ever sunk into the swamps of New Jersey.
 Rail passengers head toward a waiting train in the vast, largely vacant Secaucus station, which will cost taxpayers $6.5 million to run this year. (Photographs by Jim Cummins for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Map of New Jersey highlighting Secaucus Transfer and surrounding areas. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%); HISTORY (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Railroads; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Parking Garages and Lots; Railroads

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (73%) Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Secaucus (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



405 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; What Should Kerry Do?; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Pick a Message, Any Message

BYLINE: By Leon E. Panetta. 
Leon E. Panetta, a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and chief of staff to President Bill Clinton from 1994 to 1997, is director of the Panetta Institute for Public Policy at California State University at Monterey Bay.

DATELINE: Monterey, Calif. 

 BODY:
If John Kerry is to win this election, he will have to be much bolder about telling the American people exactly what he will do to make the country better. As a wise colleague in the House of Representatives once told me: voters don't care so much about what you believe so long as you believe in something. 
 President Bush has convinced voters that he believes in something even though polls continue to show that a majority believe that he is taking the country in the wrong direction. Mr. Kerry cannot win simply by complaining about where the country is going. He must show that he has a clear sense of what must be done to change course and to make the lives of Americans better in the future. 
 There is not much time left in this election to make that case. But it is exactly because the American people do not feel good about what is happening in Iraq and in our economy that Mr. Kerry can win if he is willing to take some risks. Presidential campaigns are by their very nature averse to risk-taking. In the 44 days that remain, Mr. Kerry will have to break that pattern to win.
 Above all, he needs to be simple and direct with voters. For too long, the campaign has played with too many messages. Mr. Kerry must develop a single, simple, succinct message: ''We need a safer and stronger America'' might work. Then he needs to stick to it every day.
 Mr. Kerry must also forget the past. Too much of this campaign has been consumed by the debate about service in Vietnam and how we got into the war in Iraq. The public has moved beyond these debates. People want to know what the president will do in the future so as not to repeat the mistakes of Vietnam in Iraq.
 In making that argument, Mr. Kerry should point out that being stubborn is not the same as being decisive or wise. Sticking to the same policy in Iraq regardless of worsening conditions is wrong. Pushing even larger tax cuts in the face of a weak economy and a huge deficit is wrong.
 President Bush says he's decisive, but refusing to change policies in the face of facts is irresponsible. This election cannot be about who is tougher. It must focus on who is wiser.
 Mr. Bush is most vulnerable on two issues -- Iraq and the economy. Mr. Kerry needs to confront the president on both, with specific proposals that make clear the stark choices facing voters.
 There are no guarantees as to who will win this election and, in the end, national and international events may determine the outcome more than anything Mr. Kerry or Mr. Bush do. And yet, if John Kerry can bring some clear, straight talk to his campaign, not only will he have a better chance to win, but the nation will be the better for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (72%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); TAX LAW (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Terrorism; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); LEON E PANETTA (59%) Leon E Panetta; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (68%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



406 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SWING STATES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: For Many in Missouri, Picking a President Is More a Matter of Values Than Policy

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES, Mo. 

 BODY:
Tom Ampleman, a blue-collar union member who lives near this suburb just outside St. Louis, says he voted for Bill Clinton twice and then Al Gore, but he is now grappling with deep religious misgivings about the Democratic Party.
 ''I haven't declared myself a Republican, but if I had to go in there and vote right now I probably would vote for the Republicans,'' Mr. Ampleman said recently, sitting in his pickup truck at a public park here.
 ''I'm not happy with the moral issues at all with the Democrats,'' continued Mr. Ampleman, who works as a welder at an aerospace company. ''The Republicans will hurt me in the long run in providing for my family, but it's probably more important to watch out for the unborn and that kind of stuff.'' 
 Missouri, almost evenly split between Republicans and Democrats, straddles the Midwest, the Deep South and the Great Plains, and has some of the sensibility of each region. Elections can turn on the interests of labor unions, farmers, city dwellers or suburban parents. 
 But Mr. Ampleman's internal tug of war, echoed in different ways in interviews with dozens of voters throughout the state, begins to explain why Republicans are increasingly confident they can prevail here this year, even as Democrats say they remain hopeful of winning Missouri's 11 electoral votes.
 Residents from blighted city neighborhoods and gritty industrial outskirts to the leafy suburban enclaves and vast stretches of rolling hills and open farmland exude anxiety over the economy and the Iraq war that Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, hopes to transform into votes. But they also echo the Christian-influenced social values and distaste for big government and taxes that helped propel President Bush to the White House. In August, a referendum on a proposed amendment to the State Constitution banning gay marriage was approved with 71 percent of the vote.
 The cultural divisions run deep, even within families. Take Paula D. Hamilton, an African-American financial adviser who lives in Raytown, a middle-class suburb of Kansas City. Over the years she has swung between parties, and this time around she too is in a quandary.
 She says she is impressed with Mr. Bush's strong stance on terrorism but unsure whether the country should have gone to war with Iraq. She finds Mr. Bush's emphasis on religion-based solutions to social problems appealing, but worries about jobs lost during his administration and what she calls an unfair tax burden on the middle class.
 ''I'm really thinking about who I'm going to vote for,'' Ms. Hamilton said, after hearing Vice President Dick Cheney speak at a rally in Springfield, some three hours' drive south of her home. ''We need someone in our office who doesn't cower down,'' she continued. But, she added: ''I'm looking at the numbers, at how many of our troops are being killed and tortured. I'm just concerned.''
 Ms. Hamilton said that she would probably not make up her mind until she walked into the voting booth. But her son, Zacqrey Woods, pastor at the Greater Metropolitan Baptist Church in Springfield -- ''the buckle of the Bible Belt,'' as he put it -- has no such difficulties.
 ''I can't get past the moral issues, I just can't,'' said Mr. Woods. ''So I cannot in any way support the Democratic Party,'' because of his objections to abortion and homosexuality. 
 Experts point to other factors that may come into play. ''The gay marriage amendment reproduces what I think is the quiet cleavage in Missouri, which is urban-rural,'' said Dave Robertson, a political science professor at the University of Missouri at St. Louis. Gone are the days when candidates could carry the state by winning St. Louis and Kansas City, campaign strategists say. In both Democratic and Republican rural counties, where the gay marriage ban passed by much higher margins than in the cities and suburbs, ''those traditional values are very strong,'' Professor Robertson said. And Republicans, who dominate the legislature, argue that Mr. Bush best reflects those values. 
 Even so, part of what has made politics in the state so fluid is that Missouri is such an amalgam. ''We are a state of parts,'' said Gov. Bob Holden, a Democrat who grew up in the Bootheel, a cotton-growing area in the state's southeastern corner. ''We touch as many states as any other state in the nation.'' Adding that the state frequently votes with the winning presidential candidate, he said, ''If Al Gore could have carried Missouri in 2000, he would be president today, irrespective of what happened in Florida.'' (Mr. Gore lost by fewer than 80,000 votes.) 
 Boosters like to say that Missouri mirrors the country, with representative proportions of whites, blacks, union members, urban and rural residents and the elderly. More than half of the state's population of 5.7 million is concentrated in and around the Democratic strongholds of St. Louis and Kansas City, but the remaining landscape is largely small towns and rural areas.
 Officials of both campaigns say the key to victory here lies in mobilizing core supporters and swaying a relatively small population of moderate, undecided voters, many in the counties ringing the large cities.
 Toward that end, both campaigns have large ground operations in place and have been intensifying their presence of late. Mr. Bush has come to the state 21 times since his inauguration, visiting on 9 days this year, while Mr. Kerry has visited on 12 days since securing the nomination in March. 
 But there are signs that the tide may be shifting in Mr. Bush's direction. After months of running virtually even in opinion polls, Mr. Bush has taken a double-digit lead in at least one recent survey, from CNN/USA Today/Gallup. And although Mr. Kerry and his allies advertised more aggressively than the Bush campaign in the spring, that balance has now shifted as the Kerry camp has sharpened its focus on other battleground states.
 Even so, strategists on both sides of the aisle say it is too early to count out Mr. Kerry, especially because the issues of most concern in the state, the economy and the war in Iraq, cut both ways.
 Like many other states, Missouri has been bleeding manufacturing jobs. At the same time, the airline industry, which was strong here, has suffered since the Sept. 11 attacks. But there are signs that the economy is rebounding. Since July 2003, economic analysts say, the state has gained nearly 83,000 jobs, many in health services and tourism, bringing it closer to its pre-recession levels. Although the most recent figures show a net loss of 57,000 jobs for July and August, labor officials say most of that is in the educational sector and is likely to rebound in the fall.
 Republicans like to cite their party's emphasis on tax cuts as a major factor in the state's economic growth, and they say their policies better dovetail with Missouri's libertarian spirit. But Democrats point to vanishing industries and an unemployment rate that has been creeping up. They say the task is to make sure that voters like Frank Brown, who works in an auto repair shop in Chaffee, a small town near conservative Cape Girardeau on the Mississippi, focus on their pocketbooks.
 ''You hate to see any small jobs go out, whether they've got two people or 200 people,'' said Mr. Brown, who said he tends to vote Democratic but had not yet made up his mind this year. ''They want to tell these people, 'Well, we'll train you for something else.' Well, maybe they could have stopped that before that job went overseas.''
 Similarly, events in Iraq will play a role here in determining which lever is pulled by undecided voters like Jason Horn, who works as a portfolio manager in downtown St. Joseph, a livestock and manufacturing city an hour north of Kansas City.
 ''I guess if someone announces they're going to jack my taxes way up or something, sure, it could affect the way I vote,'' said Mr. Horn, who is in the National Guard and says he voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. But he added that the more important factors were foreign policy and military policy, including benefits for service members, as well as whether or not the country is at war, and where.
 But in the end, many people may vote more on values and culture than on policy in a state that houses the headquarters of the Assemblies of God; where the Archbishop of St. Louis has said he would deny communion to Mr. Kerry, a Roman Catholic, because he supports abortion rights; and where hand-lettered signs for churches dot meandering country roadsides. Indeed, for some voters, like Stephanie Helfrich, a practicing Catholic who lives in the St. Charles area, values and policy are inextricably intertwined.
 ''Those values affect how you're going to make decisions on other things,'' Ms. Helfrich said, explaining that she planned to vote for Mr. Bush primarily because of his anti-abortion stance. ''I would be suspect of someone making decisions about the war or the economy or whatever comes up without that strong foundation of the respect for life and the sanctity of marriage.''
 Kerry strategists hope that his military background and fondness for hunting will help him win votes in a state with a sizable veteran population and strong pro-gun sentiments (a state law allows residents to carry concealed weapons). Four years ago, rural and small-town voters went overwhelmingly for Mr. Bush, but the Kerry camp says it plans to deploy yet another weapon: his running mate, John Edwards, who has displayed a willingness to highlight his own small-town background.
 Whether the tactics will work remains to be seen. Donnie Kiefer, a Democrat who runs the auto repair shop in Chaffee, said that his hometown was becoming more Republican because of ''the pro-life and the pro-gun.''
 ''You know, that's just a Republican political tool,'' he said. ''They're going to stay with it and I don't blame them, because it's just smart on their part.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Horn of St. Joseph, Mo., says military issues will help determine which candidate he votes for. (Photo by Chris Cummins for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''A Narrowly Divided State''Missouri, which straddles the Midwest, the Deep South, and the Great Plains, is almost evenly split between Republicans and Democrats.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized by the total number of votes cast, and shaded by the winning candidate.Map of Missouri highlighting number of votes casted (by county) for Bush and Gore in 2000.MARGIN OF VICTORYIn percentage points for past presidential elections.2000REP: 3 PT. EDGE1996DEM: 61992DEM: 101988REP: 41984REP: 201980REP: 7MISSOURI'S ECONOMYGraphs about Missouri's economy tracking the following since 1999:Change in real household income versus year earlier.Change in median home price versus year earlier.Percentage without health insurance U.S. (since 1997)ELECTED OFFICIALSREPUBLICANGOV.: 0SEN.: 2REP.: 5DEMOCRATGOV.: 1SEN.: 0REP.: 4DEMOGRAPHICSMO.WHITE: 84%BLACK: 11%HISPANIC: 2%ASIAN: 1%U.S.WHITE: 69BLACK: 12HISPANIC: 13ASIAN: 4(Drawing by Matthew Ericson/The New York Times)(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); FAMILY (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CITIES (71%); MARRIAGE (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); APPROVALS (62%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%); TERRORISM (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Christians and Christianity; Urban Areas; Rural Areas ; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (59%) University of Missouri

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Diane Cardwell; Dave (Prof) Robinson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (93%) Missouri; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



407 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: A World of Nuclear Dangers

 BODY:
The cold war generation grew up worrying about the bomb, the Russians and World War III. Today's nuclear nightmares are more varied, but no less scary. The list of nuclear-armed states is lengthening alarmingly, and each new entry increases the chances that some nasty regional war could turn nuclear. Nuclear terrorism has emerged as a terrifying new threat. Russia has huge, poorly guarded stockpiles of nuclear bomb fuel and there is a small but increasing possibility that its decaying early warning system could trigger an accidental launch. 
 President Bush often says he means to halt the nuclear arms programs of North Korea and Iran, although he has yet to produce any workable plans for doing so. In February, he rightly called for tighter controls over nuclear fuel processing, used by several countries to produce bomb ingredients. 
 As a senator and a candidate, John Kerry has offered constructive proposals addressing almost every aspect of current nuclear dangers. While Mr. Bush has tended to focus narrowly on rogue states like North Korea and Iran, Mr. Kerry wisely favors a more comprehensive approach that would combine crisis diplomacy on these two priority cases with accelerated efforts to protect Russian stockpiles. The North Korean and Iranian nuclear programs are at the top of the nation's agenda. But it is disingenuous to ignore the fact that 95 percent of the nuclear bombs and most of the nuclear weapons fuel are in the hands of Russia and the United States.
 Mr. Kerry would also break with Bush policies that unintentionally encourage nuclear proliferation, like the Strangelovian plans for research on unneeded new nuclear weapons. 
 India and Pakistan tested their first nuclear bombs in 1998. North Korea is close, if not already there. Iran is not very far behind. In the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent and the Korean peninsula, an escalation of conventional conflict into nuclear war has to be treated as a realistic possibility. 
 The steady spread of these weapons also increases the risks of backdoor sales of nuclear technology, as the worldwide arms bazaar run by A.Q. Khan of Pakistan so chillingly demonstrated. This creeping proliferation has meant the dispersal of nuclear bomb ingredients like highly enriched uranium and plutonium into countries with poor governance, uncertain stability and corrupt officials. That makes it easier for terrorists to acquire such material and try to fashion usable nuclear bombs.
 Mr. Bush once lumped Iraq, Iran and North Korea together as an ''axis of evil.'' But his decision to invade Iraq limited the diplomatic and military tools left available to influence North Korea and Iran -- which were undoubtedly taught by the Iraq experience that the best protection against a pre-emptive strike is a nuclear arsenal.
 In both cases, precious time has been lost while the administration has followed largely unproductive diplomatic strategies. Mr. Bush now wants to ask the United Nations Security Council to impose sanctions on Iran. But many Council members, including major European allies, are not ready to do so. On North Korea, the administration has insisted on discussions including Russia, China, Japan and South Korea as well as North Korea and the United States. These have made no discernible progress, in part because Washington waited until this summer to put its first serious negotiating proposal on the table. With the talks stalled, North Korea has all the time it needs to reprocess its plutonium into several nuclear bombs. 
 Mr. Kerry would try to jump-start the North Korea talks with a comprehensive new American proposal. He would, like Mr. Bush, insist that Iran renounce all domestic processing of nuclear fuel while promising that it could count on access to reliable imported supplies of civilian reactor fuel in return. Any distinction between the two candidates on Iran rests on Mr. Kerry's contention that he could better line up European support. 
 If there is still time to dissuade these two countries from going nuclear, there isn't much. North Korea may already have assembled test devices. Iran may soon have all the technology and raw materials needed to proceed. Still, the international community should explore every avenue to persuade both countries that it is not in their best interest to build nuclear weapons. In exchange for a verifiable dismantling of their nuclear programs, Washington and other governments ought to be willing to offer substantial economic, diplomatic and security concessions. If that fails to produce results, international pressure will have to be substantially ratcheted up. Further months of stalemate while nuclear fuel processing work continues is not an acceptable option. 
 There is nothing secret anymore about how to process uranium or plutonium to the purity needed for bomb-making, nor is it all that hard to acquire the raw ingredients. And every nuclear wannabe has now learned how to disguise the early phases of a nuclear weapons effort as part of a civilian nuclear energy program, a trick pioneered decades ago by India and most recently employed by Iran. Unfortunately, the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty was explicitly intended to encourage such power programs, making it much harder to fend off the emergence of new nuclear weapons states. Obviously, the treaty needs to be toughened. 
 Mr. Bush has rightly called on other countries to deny nuclear-related exports to any nation that refuses to forgo such fuel processing plants. He should accelerate the process by calling on the four other main nuclear exporting countries to join Washington in an immediate ban. 
 It is also vital to extend the reach of the nonproliferation treaty with a proposed new fissile materials agreement. Senator Kerry strongly supports this and President Bush says he supports it too, but his administration recently undermined the treaty talks by announcing, perversely, that Washington would insist that the agreement contain no provisions for verification or inspections. 
 Although the United States and Russia have deactivated thousands of nuclear warheads since the end of the cold war, tens of thousands remain activated or sitting in stockpiles where they can be quickly reassembled. The arms reduction agreement signed by President Bush and President Vladimir Putin in 2002 calls for most of these warheads to be deactivated by 2012, but no reductions are required sooner than that and many of the deactivated warheads will still be retained in stockpiles. America's stored and deactivated weapons are well secured, but many of Russia's are not. In addition, Russia's poorly maintained launch command and early warning systems may be dangerously degrading. At some point, they might conceivably become vulnerable to terrorists. Well over a thousand warheads on each side remain on hair-trigger alert.
 Washington is helping Russia upgrade its storage security, but at such a slow rate that hundreds of tons of highly enriched uranium and plutonium will be lying around for many years. Every ton of highly enriched uranium can be used to make more than 100 nuclear bombs. A ton of plutonium can go even further.
 The answer is to sharply increase funding for the broad range of American programs intended to secure this material and reduce or eliminate other threats from cold war weapons. This is the most cost-effective defense spending in the federal budget. A bipartisan commission in 2001 recommended tripling spending for these programs, but the Bush administration has failed to follow through. Senator Kerry proposes a significant increase aimed at securing all of Russia's loose bomb fuel in four years.
 While Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry seem to agree on many nuclear proliferation issues, the difference lies in their approach to international problems. Voters will have to decide whether Mr. Kerry's emphasis on diplomacy and international cooperation is the best way to keep a lid on these nuclear threats, or whether Mr. Bush's more unilateral approach to foreign affairs is better. There is no graver subject for their consideration this election year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (97%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); CORRUPTION (50%) Atomic Weapons; Editorials; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; Iran; Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



408 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Are Some Red States Blue About Jobs?

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
HOW big of an issue will the economy be on Election Day? Pollsters have been saying that it's a top concern for undecided voters. That makes sense, given that people with strong feelings about foreign policy, civil rights or the candidates' personalities have probably made up their minds already. But could differences in economic performance among the states actually determine how the election shakes out?
 The answer is a definite maybe. Traditionally, economists have doubted that a president or his party can dictate the overall path of the economy. ''Most economists assume that the major person who can affect the business cycles in the economy is Alan Greenspan,'' said Ray C. Fair, an economics professor at Yale who has studied economic trends and elections for decades.
 But things may be different at the state level. Economists and political scientists say that some presidential policies can have a direct and predictable impact on state economies, at least in the short term. 
 ''In some ways you can actually do more at the local level,'' said Alan J. Auerbach, director of the Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California. ''An example would be the steel tariffs. They probably had a negligible impact on the economy as a whole, but they certainly had an impact on the particular steel mills affected by the tariffs.''
 Voters sure seem to think that the White House can make a difference. A look at recent polls and the electoral map suggests that people may hold the president responsible for their states' economic fate.
 Though his recent campaign speeches have focused on terrorism and the war in Iraq, the president must know that the economy is important to voters. After all, the economy was the issue that thwarted his father's re-election bid, and, according to recent polls like the IssuesPA/Pew survey in Pennsylvania last month, it is also the chief concern of undecided voters this time.
 As a result, the economy could be the determining factor in the election. So how have the 13 swing states, as classified by The New York Times, using poll analysis and projections, fared under President Bush? Not very well. The average increase in the unemployment rate in the swing states was 1.2 percentage points from January 2001 to August 2004. That performance was worse than the averages for states that are expected to back the president and those likely to support Senator John Kerry. States that are expected to vote Republican, according to The Times's handicapping, had an increase of 0.8 percentage points in their unemployment rate, while Democrat-leaning states had an average increase of 0.9 percentage points. 
 SO, will those swing states reject the president because of the economy? Looking at unemployment rates may be only the first step toward an answer. According to some political scientists, the relationship between the economy and the casting of electoral votes could involve a complex combination of local and national forces.
 Daron R. Shaw, an associate professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin, said voters were most likely to be influenced by an issue when it had surfaced at the national level and begun to resonate locally. He cited jobs moving abroad as the most recent example on the economic front. 
 ''The notion of outsourcing -- people say, 'I've seen that,''' Professor Shaw said. A feeling that the president has done little to deal with outsourcing abroad, he argued, may have loosened Republicans' hold on some states that they won in 2000. ''The people who were most at risk over the last four years also tend to be the sorts of cultural conservatives -- blue-collar Democrats -- that flipped West Virginia and helped Bush carry Ohio last time,'' he said. ''It's the particular nature of unemployment in this last cycle that has brought them into play.''
 The unemployment data raise another question, however: Did the White House reward states for voting Republican in 2000? Among all the red states from the last election, the average increase in unemployment has been 0.8 percentage points. In the blue states, it has been 1.1 percentage points. 
 The difference is not large, regardless of the Bush administration's efforts or intentions. ''The best they've been able to do is play defense and knock the edge off some of the problems those states have encountered due to national economic forces,'' Professor Shaw said.
 Still, in a state of five million workers, like Michigan, that difference could amount to 15,000 jobs -- and votes.
 Professor Auerbach pointed out that the government had some scope for funneling spending projects to chosen states. But he said he doubted that the White House could have controlled enough of those allotments to turn the election. ''I'm not willing to give George Bush or Karl Rove enough credit for having the capacity to do this,'' he said, referring to the president's chief political strategist. 
 But a reward is not the only possible explanation for the red states' superior performance. Voters in those states might have chosen George W. Bush exactly because they expected to reap some material benefits from his administration. Indeed, Professor Auerbach said, some of those voters might have been right: ''States with a big military presence are likely to be more pro-Republican, and certainly defense contractors must have done well under Bush.''
 The relationship may even amount to a self-fulfilling prophecy: people vote for a candidate because they believe they will do well under his administration, and then, presto, he enacts policies that serve their interests. But even this kind of analysis, incorporating Professor Shaw's theory about resonant issues, may miss one more layer of complexity. For many voters, the economic situations in their home states may not be the major factor in their decisions.
 ''People who think they're hurting, but the country's doing well -- those people vote for the incumbent,'' Professor Shaw said. Voters who work in one state but live in another may present a further challenge, Professor Fair added. ''It could be that the other state is as important to them as the state they actually reside and vote in,'' he said.
 With just six weeks left before the election, there may be little that the president and his party can do with the economy to affect the results. Professor Auerbach says voters tend to be most influenced by their economic experience, up to but not including the quarter just before the election.
 And in any case, it may be too late to attract votes by using an economic surge as a lure. During the administration of George H.W. Bush, economic indicators took a turn for the better just before the election in 1992 -- and he still lost. ''Things were finally starting to pick up at the very end,'' Professor Auerbach recalled, ''but I don't think it helped him.'' 
 Professor Auerbach also warned against a last-minute spending or tax-cutting spree aimed at attracting votes. ''Anything that the president would propose in the last two months before an election would amount to pandering,'' he said, ''and that just isn't good fiscal policy.''
 THAT does not mean politicians won't try. ''You'd expect that the federal government would be quite generous to Florida now, in the hurricane cleanup,'' Professor Fair said. ''Would they be less generous to Florida if it wasn't a swing state? Who knows?''
 If the White House does swamp Florida with dollars, the president will most likely say that the gesture came out of the goodness of his heart. Even if he can't win points for an economic windfall so late in the game, perhaps it's not too late to burnish his character.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Navajo women encourage voters in Window Rock, Ariz. The economy, especially at the local level, could be a deciding factor in the election. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 9)
(Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)
(Photo by Gary Caskey/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Will Jobs Push the Swing?''Five swing states are among the 10 states with the biggest jumps in unemployment since George W. Bush's presidency.1. MassachusettsNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.7August's rate: 5.4%Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY2. Oregon*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.6August's rate: 7.4Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A3. Colorado*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.5August's rate: 5.1Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A4. OhioNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.4August's rate: 6.3Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH5. Michigan*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.1August's rate: 6.7Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A6. South CarolinaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.1August's rate: 6.4Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH7. ConnecticutNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +2.1August's rate: 4.6Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY8. TexasNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.7August's rate: 5.7Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH9. Iowa*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.5August's rate: 4.5Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A10. Minnesota*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.5August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A11. New YorkNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.4August's rate: 5.6Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY12. Pennsylvania*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.4August's rate: 5.6Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A13. District of ColumbiaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.3August's rate: 7.5Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY14. IndianaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.3August's rate: 5.1Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH15. New JerseyNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.3August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY16. Rhode IslandNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.3August's rate: 5.5Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY17. UtahNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.3August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH18. CaliforniaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.2August's rate: 5.8Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY19. Maine*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.2August's rate: 4.5Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A20. IllinoisNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.2August's rate: 6.1Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY21. MississippiNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.1August's rate: 5.9Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH22. MissouriNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.1August's rate: 5.5Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH23. AlabamaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.0August's rate: 6.0Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH24. AlaskaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.0August's rate: 7.6Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH25. VirginiaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.0August's rate: 3.5Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH26. OklahomaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.0August's rate: 4.1Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH27. New Hampshire*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.9August's rate: 3.7Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A28. TennesseeNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.9August's rate: 4.9Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH29. Wisconsin*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.9August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A30. ArkansasNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.7August's rate: 5.4Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH31. IdahoNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.7August's rate: 5.0Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH32. KansasNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.7August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH33. NebraskaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.7August's rate: 3.6Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH34. New Mexico*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.7August's rate: 5.4Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A35. ArizonaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 4.4Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH36. WashingtonNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 6.2Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY37. Florida*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 4.5Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A38. GeorgiaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 4.2Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH39. North CarolinaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 5.0Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH40. North DakotaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.6August's rate: 3.3Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH41. MarylandNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.5August's rate: 4.3Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY42. South DakotaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.4August's rate: 3.2Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH43. West Virginia*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.4August's rate: 5.5Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A44. KentuckyNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.3August's rate: 5.1Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH45. MontanaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.2August's rate: 4.8Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH46. VermontNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.1August's rate: 3.4Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY47. WyomingNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): 0August's rate: 3.7Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH48. DelawareNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): -0.4August's rate: 3.6Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY49. Nevada*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): -0.4August's rate: 4.0Currently leaning or strongly for: N/A50. LouisianaNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): -1.1August's rate: 5.0Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSH51. HawaiiNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): -1.2August's rate: 2.9Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRYAVERAGESBush-leaning statesNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.8August's rate: 4.9%Currently leaning or strongly for: BUSHSwing states*Net change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +1.2August's rate: 5.1Currently leaning or strongly for: N/AKerry-leaning statesNet change in unemployment rate since January 2001 (In percentage points): +0.9August's rate: 5.1Currently leaning or strongly for: KERRY*Swing state(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 New York Times Analysis)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); TERRORISM (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) Daniel Altman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



409 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Whose Recovery Is It, Anyhow?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Why, Ben Stein asks, is President Bush not given credit for the economic recovery? The answer isn't all that mysterious. The stimulus provided by the Bush tax cuts has indeed given the economy a temporary boost, but his policies have not addressed the right fundamental problems.
 For example, the glut of labor on the world market has debased the value of huge segments of our work force, which has affected not just those whose jobs have been lost, but also those whose pay and prospects are diminished. Those who benefited most from the Bush tax cuts may not care whether the factory or call center that ultimately provides their livelihood is in New England or South Carolina or China, but it matters, and the fundamentals will catch up to us all pretty quickly. Mr. Bush is not addressing this, and, frankly, neither is John Kerry. Not a perfect recovery, indeed!

Dave Losch
Stamford, Conn., Sept. 12


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%) Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) dave losch; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



410 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: There's Gold in That Rubbish

 BODY:
If Mayor Michael Bloomberg does nothing else to help New York City with its mushrooming garbage problem, he will have accomplished something monumental by committing residents to long-term recycling of their bottles, plastics and cans. 
 The announcement last week of a 20-year contract with a major recycling company, the Hugo Neu Corporation, came after some troubling fits and starts during which the mayor had placed recycling in limbo -- suspended, then resurrected in stages. It was a confusing process that put the eventual outcome in doubt. In the end, the numbers told the only story New York's businessman-mayor needed: recycling, done right, can save the city lots of money. 
 To get there, Mr. Bloomberg wisely heeded the advice of environmentalists, led by the Natural Resources Defense Council, and his team at the Economic Development Corporation, rejecting short-term contracts that not only were costly but also reflected an uncertain attachment to recycling. The model for the change was the city's newspaper recycling program, a dependable revenue producer, which is handled through a long-term contract with Visy Paper on Staten Island.
 With a 20-year contract in hand, Hugo Neu, which recycles glass, plastics and metal, will now invest $25 million to build a high-tech plant in Brooklyn. Part of the deal calls for the company to seek out markets for the processed materials and share revenues with the city.
 The benefits should be felt fairly soon. Once the plant opens in 2007, New York can begin reducing the mountain of garbage it trucks daily to landfills in Pennsylvania, Virginia and beyond, a process that puts heavy stress on roads and pollutes the air. The cost of shipping a ton of garbage to landfills is $70. The cost of recycling a ton of glass, plastic and metal will be $48. Since New York produces about 12,500 tons of residential trash every day, the savings will be substantial.
 To get the most from the deal, however, the city will also have to find ways to streamline its recycling collection. And it can't ignore the people on the front lines. According to city officials, about 15 to 20 percent of the residential trash stream is recycled. They would like to see the number rise to 25 percent or higher -- still below the performance for other cities, but not so bad considering the dedication required of New York's apartment-dwellers, who, unlike their suburban counterparts, simply don't have space to collect cans and bottles. The city could help the cause by doing a better job of educating people to incorporate recycling into their lives. That will be easier to do now that it's clear the program is permanent.
 The recycling overhaul, big though it is, is just the precursor to a larger announcement the Bloomberg administration is expected to make next month when it releases its long-awaited 20-year solid waste plan. That plan needs to address other ways of getting a better handle on the city's rubbish, including, for starters, encouraging manufacturers to minimize packaging. The waste has been made all the greater by Rudolph Giuliani's decision when he was mayor to close the city's only municipal landfill, at Fresh Kills on Staten Island, without offering an alternate plan. 
 Mr. Bloomberg did not get recycling right the first time. But he seems determined to stick to the issue until he does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials; Editorials

COMPANY: HUGO NEU CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%) Hugo Neu Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



411 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Flip-Flopping Slip-Slides Into the Debate

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
RICHARD M. Nixon flip-flopped on China. George W. Bush embraced protectionism for the steel industry after preaching free-market principles on the campaign trail. Ronald Reagan failed to remain consistent. In the 1960's he promised not to raise taxes, adding, ''I am in concrete'' for emphasis.
 Then, when he became the governor of California in 1970, he raised the tax rate and genially laughed it off. ''That sound you hear,'' he told reporters, ''is the concrete breaking around my feet.'' 
 Among historians, such shifts in opinion -- and the public's willingness to accept them -- inspire little consternation. Reinvention, they argue, is as American as Thanksgiving and jazz. We live in a country, after all, where a Hollywood figures like Samuel Goldwyn and Louis B. Mayer could change things like names and birthdays without being called a traitor to their roots; a place where the cosmetic surgery industry hauls in more than $9 billion a year, and where recreating yourself is a constant theme of drama, music and art. As Walt Whitman, the most American of poets, once wrote: 
 Do I contradict myself? 
 Very well then I contradict myself, 
 (I am large, I contain multitudes).
 Yet Senator John Kerry seems to be suffering in the polls for changing his mind. Republicans have tagged him a flip-flopper, and the mildly ridiculous term has somehow become a potent weapon, an 11-letter dig suggesting that Mr. Kerry has shifted policy positions frequently and is therefore weak, indecisive and more ambitious than principled. 
 Senator Kerry's defenders say he is a pragmatist whose views reflect the complexity of evolving issues. So what makes the term flip-flopper so radioactive this year? Why is Senator Kerry falling victim to the charge? It could be a matter of style. Even flip-flopping, it seems, can be nuanced.
 Mr. Kerry isn't altering his views, conservatives argue, or reinventing himself; he's just changing what he tells people. ''There's a difference between evolving and growing -- and changing with time and culture -- and being politically expedient,'' said Reed Dickens, a spokesman for the Bush campaign. ''This is a man who changes his position depending on who he talks to. That is not American.''
 Others on the political right agree. ''Self-reformation or transformation suggests there was a starting position and a finishing position,'' said David Horowitz, a former left-wing radical who has transformed into a conservative pundit. ''Flip-flop is a vibration -- it's constant motion.''
 In the arts, repeated reinvention is welcomed. 'You're expected to go places you've never been,'' said Jim Guerinot, manager of Beck and No Doubt. Bob Dylan went electric; U2 moved from guitar rock to techno and back again. Ice Cube, one of rap's all-time greats, became an actor. And because negative campaigning rarely exists in pop culture -- you'll never find Eminem calling Josh Groban a ''girlie-man'' -- consistency is rarely an issue.
 In today's angry politics, however, change is bad, conversion is good. President Bush's transformation from a frat-boy alcoholic to a teetotaling Christian public servant is believable; so are the multiple epiphanies on race experienced by Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, if only because they asked for forgiveness.
 The key, says Walter Russell Mead, of the Council on Foreign Relations, -- especially in a country where a Gallup poll found that roughly 40 percent of the population identifies itself as evangelical or ''born again'' -- is to tap into America's tradition of religious reinvention.
 ''That notion that natural man is full of sin and weak, but that he can be changed through God's intervention, is deeply rooted in American culture,'' Mr. Mead said. ''Even when people are not exclusively religious, we have this notion that you can have a road-to-Damascus experience and radically change.''
 David M. Kennedy, author of ''Freedom From Fear,'' a Pulitzer-prize-winning book about the Depression and World War II, made a similar point. He argued that successful flip-floppers have always managed to convince the public that the decision of the moment was incontrovertibly correct. They projected the faith of a zealous apostle, steadfast and stern.
 Consider Franklin D. Roosevelt, Mr. Kennedy said. He tacked like a windsurfer on issues of the economy. He cut the federal budget before raising it. In his first inaugural address in 1933, he attacked unscrupulous money-changers, then he forged ties with big business through private-public partnerships, only to later pursue more than 100 companies for violations of antitrust regulations.
 ''And yet he was strong,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''He said, 'We have a list of things we'll try, and we'll do them all until the problem is gone.' ''
 Senator Kerry, Democrats say, is cut from the same cloth. He seeks results, not ideological purity. His ability to see all sides of an issue is precisely what makes him a compelling leader. 
 ''In a world that changes as quickly as this one does,'' said Michael Feldman, who was chief of staff to former Vice President Al Gore, ''where the facts on the ground can move from minute to minute, I want a commander in chief who can take those changes into consideration before making a decision. I want someone who is decisive but who is willing to have an open mind.''
 Democrats also argue that Senator Kerry is being unjustly singled out because he is a legislator with a long history of votes. ''The issues change, the economic issues change, the social environment changes -- and your history is a liability when U.S. senators run for president,'' said Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant who worked on Representative Richard A. Gephardt's recent presidential campaign.
 It is easier than ever to exploit the past as well, Mr. Carrick said. Today's 24-hour news cycle, fused with digital technology, has given journalists an ever-present eye, and the ability to broadcast every shift in phrasing with a simple keystroke.
 One look at the Bush-Cheney campaign Web site captures the shift. From the ''Kerry media center'' Web page, it is possible to click through more than 35 of what the site describes as Senator Kerry's flip-flops. There's a ''flip-flop of the day,'' which contrasts Senator Kerry's old statements with those he is making on the campaign trail.
 ''It used to be possible for candidates to say one thing in Georgia and something else in Ohio and not get called on it,'' said Bruce J. Schulman, a professor at Boston University and the author of ''The 70's: The Great Shift in American Culture, Society and Politics.'' ''That's not possible anymore.''
 The role of religion is different too, Mr. Schulman added. ''When Jimmy Carter ran for president, his overt, obvious faith was a source of controversy,'' he said. ''With the famous Playboy interview where he mentions lust in his heart, the whole purpose was to show that it was O.K. and it wasn't scary for him to be so obviously religious.''
 Contrast Mr. Carter's experience with the 2000 campaign, when both Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush made conspicuous displays of faith, and Senator Kerry's problem becomes apparent. Reason is slipping, religion is sprinting and Mr. Kerry has bet on the wrong horse. His pragmatic liberalism, says Mr. Schulman, ''doesn't play as well as George Bush's religious conversion.'
 Mr. Kerry had his chance to join the converted. According to Mr. Mead, the events of Sept. 11, 2001, could have been the right reason for Senator Kerry to reinvent himself -- to become a flip-flopper that today's fearful, religious voters could really understand.
 ''What Kerry should have started doing,'' Mr. Mead said, ''was saying that, 'In this new world, I'm born again. All of us, Democrats and Republicans, have done things in the past that are not the right thing. But now, we're different.' ''
 In American life today, Mr. Mead said, ''you get a flip but not a flop.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sept. 19 about politicians who have revised their positions misstated the year in which Ronald Reagan became governor of California before changing his mind and raising state taxes. He took office in 1967, not 1970. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: BOTH SIDES NOW -- Demonstrators in huge flip-flops protested against Senator John Kerry in Boston. (Photo by John Gress/Reuters/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); WRITERS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HISTORY (70%); POETRY (66%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%); RICHARD NIXON (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) John (Sen) Kerry; Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



412 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Swallowing The Elephant

BYLINE: By Henry Louis Gates Jr.. 
Henry Louis Gates Jr. is a guest columnist through September. Thomas L. Friedman is on book leave.

 BODY:
The moment when the Republican Party lost black America can be given a date: Oct. 26, 1960. Martin Luther King Jr., arrested in Georgia during a sit-in, had been transferred to a maximum-security prison and sentenced to four months on the chain gang, without bail. As The Times reported, John F. Kennedy called Coretta King, expressing his concern. Richard Nixon didn't.
 ''It took courage to call my daughter-in-law at a time like this,'' King's father said about Kennedy at a church rally. ''I've got all my votes and I've got a suitcase, and I'm going to take them up there and dump them in his lap.'' In 1956, Dwight Eisenhower had received nearly 40 percent of the black vote. (I myself sported an ''I Like Ike'' button in first grade.) In 1960, Nixon received 32 percent. A few years later, as the civil-rights era heated up and the G.O.P. pursued its ''Southern strategy,'' blacks effectively became a one-party constituency. 
 But at what cost? Speaking to a National Urban League audience in July, President Bush quoted an Illinois legislator's piquant remark that ''blacks are gagging on the donkey but not yet ready to swallow the elephant,'' and went on to pose a series of questions that black people themselves have been asking: ''Does the Democrat party take African-American voters for granted? Is it a good thing for the African-American community to be represented mainly by one political party? How is it possible to gain political leverage if the party is never forced to compete?''
 Of course, such questions have an unspoken corollary: Why support a party that has written you off?
 Some black Republicans will tell you that however important the legal reforms of the civil-rights era had been 40 years ago, blacks today will be well served by the party of school reform and faith-based programs, the party of the so-called ownership society. ''These are going to be the pillars of the black community,'' Condoleezza Rice told me. ''In my little community in Birmingham, Alabama, in the 50's and 60's, there were black-owned businesses everywhere, and everybody owned their own homes. That made our community strong. We've got to get back to that.''
 Karl Rove, President Bush's chief political strategist, says the Republicans' low levels of black support are unhealthy for the party -- once the party of Lincoln, after all -- and for the African-American community. Part of what's gone wrong, he told me, is that Republicans don't advertise in black media markets. ''If the conversation in the community is predominantly Democrat, and we don't make the argument on urban radio and we don't pay attention to the African-American newspapers, and if we don't campaign in the community, then why are we surprised when people don't hear our arguments and don't vote for our candidates?'' 
 What's more, many blacks are evangelical Protestants, and tend to be more conservative than their white counterparts on ''social'' issues like gay rights and capital punishment. ''The Democratic Party is not 90 percent more black friendly than we are,'' Rove exclaims.
 Why, then, are blacks such down-the-line Democrats? My Harvard colleague Michael Dawson, a descendant of a black Democratic congressman from Chicago, agrees with Rove that black people are socially conservative. But the issues they vote on are racial and, especially, economic.
 When it comes to race, he points out, parties have multilevel strategies. Republicans can appeal to white moderates by signaling a measure of compassion about problems of race. ''On the other hand,'' Dawson observes, ''you can go into places such as Florida and try systematically to disenfranchise poor black votes.''
 The real watershed, in his view, was the 1980 election. Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford tried to build up, and win over, a black middle class; the Reagan team figured they could do better by shutting out the black political establishment and mobilizing white conservatives. ''Black elites were shocked to find out that with Reagan and his advisers, there were no longer 'good Negroes' and 'bad Negroes,''' Dawson says.
 What the big-tent rhetoric ignores is that a more ''black friendly'' G.O.P. might pay a price in white support. ''The Republicans would lose more white votes than they would gain black votes,'' Dawson says. And so blacks, as a one-party constituency in a two-party system, get sidelined.
 It isn't that the candidates won't call. It's just that they're calling collect. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RELIGION (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Election Issues; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); KARL ROVE (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Henry Louis Jr Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004



413 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Lost in the Din: Security vs. the Dream

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Passers-by glanced curiously at the few dozen young people rallying on the sidewalk outside the Interfaith Center of New York on Thursday, immigrant students wearing bright orange stickers saying ''Ask Me Why I'm Fasting.'' But no one stopped to ask, and as student speakers addressed a handful of reporters, their words were often muffled by the roar of midday traffic in Midtown.
 It was Day 2 of a five-day fast that organizers called a National Week of Action for Immigrants' Rights. There were protests in 70 cities around the country. But even in New York, where immigrant concerns have historically been the bread and butter of local politics, it was hard to draw attention to issues that seem, for many, to be stuck on the back burner this election year.
 Many advocates cited a disconnect between convention rhetoric that prominently celebrated immigrant opportunity in America, and a darkening reality since Sept. 11, 2001. Time is also running out on several immigration bills languishing in Congress, including the most modest bipartisan measure, known as the Dream Act, which would give access to college aid to high-achieving teenagers in families of illegal immigrants. 
 Yet some also see a disconnect between the expansive legislative goals of national immigration organizations, which are busy lobbying for pathways to legal residency and citizenship, and a grass-roots panic over day-to-day shortcuts to criminalization: administrative policies and computer crackdowns that lead to the loss of driver's licenses, immigration arrests at traffic stops, and the detention and deportation of longtime residents who leave their children, United States citizens, behind.
 The director of the New York Immigration Coalition, Margaret McHugh, said her trips to Washington for immigration meetings were like trips to another world.
 ''Down there, it's about what are the components of a good legalization bill going to be,'' she said. ''And here we're frantic, because every day we're seeing the de-legalization and the criminalization of so many immigrants.''
 Scores of community organizations participated in the week of vigils and symbolic hunger strikes, which are to culminate locally today with a community hearing in Harlem, and tomorrow in Washington with a day of lobbying. Among the most active participants are students like 18-year-old Alejandra, who would not give her last name for fear of deportation. Alejandra was 7 when her mother brought her to New York from their native Colombia, and she was valedictorian of her high school class in Queens in June, but she could not apply for government financial aid for college.
 ''These children are de facto Americans,'' contended Partha Banerjee, director of New Immigrant Community Empowerment, a group taking part in the sidewalk rallies. ''But because of all the 9/11 problems, their hopes are being dashed on a daily basis.''
 Despite public enthusiasm for the speeches of Barack Obama and Arnold Schwarzenegger, it is a generation coming of age in a climate of growing hostility to immigration, say those who have supported amnesty programs for illegal immigrants. 
 In the last three years, they say, economic insecurity has converged with national security concerns -- and a new influx of immigrants -- to revive the immigration backlash of the early 1990's.
 ''At one level,'' said Muzaffar A. Chishti, a senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute, ''everyone wants to appease immigrants -- mainstream Republicans and mainstream Democrats -- because they're seen as a very important voting bloc.
 ''But they don't want to do too much toward moving the ball forward, because they run into this problem of the rest of the country, the feeling of insecurity both on economic grounds and on security grounds,'' he said.
 As the specter of job loss to foreigners angers parts of the Democratic base, immigration advocacy, too, may rely on symbols to stand in for substance. The National Week of Action, for example, was billed as the first anniversary of the Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, modeled after the Freedom Rides for civil rights in the 1960's. But, Mr. Chishti said, black Democratic leaders acknowledge -- only privately -- that many of their native-born black constituents are increasingly resentful about illegal immigration. 
 Few leaders are discussing the hard issues that emerged from a study issued in July by the Center for Labor Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, which found that recently arrived immigrants accounted for all the employment growth in the United States since 2001. With little net job growth, employment of new immigrants, mostly from Mexico and Latin America, appears to be displacing some established immigrants and native-born workers, especially black men in central cities, the study's author, the economist Andrew Sum, concluded.
 Even where there is political common ground, as on issues involving the police, local officials may not be in a position to call the shots. In a rally on the steps of City Hall on Friday, two members of the City Council and several immigrant organizations complained about Attorney General John Ashcroft's decision in 2002 to load thousands of civil immigration records into the national crime database, which the F.B.I. uses to notify law enforcement agencies about people wanted for crimes.
 This, said the council members and advocates, had subverted Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's Executive Order 41, which, in 2003, promised that no immigrant would be arrested by the police for illegal status alone. 
 By late last year, Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, reported that 317 noncitizens with immigration violations had been arrested in New York by the police using routine computer checks, out of a total of 5,092 nationwide. 
 Federal officials said adding immigration records to the database strengthened homeland security. 
 But several advocacy groups have challenged that reasoning. The National Council of La Raza, the New York Immigration Coalition, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Latin American Workers Project and Unite, joined in 2003 in a class action lawsuit against the use of the criminal database for immigrant violations. 
 ''The federal government is subverting the express will of the residents and mayor of New York,'' Monica Tarazi, the executive director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination League, contended at the City Hall rally.
 One of the pending immigration bills that the national week of rallies was meant to oppose would require local police to enforce federal immigration laws. The police in New York and several other large cities say that would undermine local crime-fighting by making immigrants even more fearful of reporting crimes or helping an investigation. Supporters of the measure, sponsored by United States Representative Charles Norwood, Republican of Georgia, say that it is the only serious way to crack down on illegal immigration.
 ''Security has become so central to any position on immigration that unless you can frame your argument on security grounds, it doesn't have legs,'' Mr. Chishti said.
 In that context, even a measure like the Dream Act, which highlights the most appealing cases, can have trouble gaining traction. Though the Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, has endorsed the bill, Democrats in Congress are doing little to push it to a vote, advocates and critics agree. 
 ''It's really just amnesty du jour,'' said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports more restrictive immigration. ''And it doesn't matter because it's not going to pass anyway.''
 That leaves the future uncertain for young people like those at the rally on Thursday. ''Every day I see students, bright students, who drop out of college because they can't get a loan, because of their immigration status,'' Mr. Banerjee said. ''What is going to happen to all these young kids, hoping that something is going to fall from the sky?'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Monday about nationwide protests by immigrants against the hostility they perceive in an age of security concerns misstated the name of the organization represented by Monica Tarazi, who spoke at a City Hall rally in New York, and misstated her title. It is the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, not League; she is the New York director, not the executive director.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chan Hong, 3, of Queens, with his mother and other protesters at the Interfaith Center of New York on Saturday during the groups five-day fast for improved immigrants rights. Demonstrations were held in 70 cities. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); CHILDREN (87%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); POLITICS (74%); RELIGION (73%); LOBBYING (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); RIOTS (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Demonstrations and Riots; Deportation

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



414 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: NEIGHBORS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Helping Insurgents In Iraq, U.S. Officials Say

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have raised sharp complaints in recent days that Iran is providing support for the insurgency in Iraq, expressing concerns over what they say are Iran's attempt to shape Iraq's future.
 Pentagon, State Department and military officials, describing intelligence reports that are fueling those concerns, say money, weapons and even a small number of fighters are flowing over the border from Iran to assist Shiite insurgents commanded by Moktada al-Sadr, a rebel cleric. But there is no consensus on the exact scale of Iranian activities.
 Mr. Powell, in an interview with the editors of The Washington Times released by the State Department on Friday, said that Iran was ''providing support'' for the insurgency but that the extent of its influence was not clear. Most of the insurgency, he added, was ''self-generating'' and drawing support from indigenous sources. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld, speaking Tuesday during a visit to Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., said, ''We have no doubt that the money comes in from Syria and Iran and undoubtedly other countries as well.'' He also cited reports that a shoulder-launched, antiaircraft missile had been smuggled into Iraq from Iran.
 Bush administration officials, in addition to their charge that Iran is supporting the insurgency, described new concerns that Iran is financing medical clinics, hospitals and social welfare centers in Iraq, especially in areas where the interim government of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and American forces are not in control.
 ''Now that these folks are starting to provide services that should be provided by the Iraqi government, their purpose is to provide a political base to extend Iran's influence in Iraq,'' one administration official said. 
 Such support is seen in Washington as akin to Iran's support for Hezbollah, the organization in Lebanon that runs social welfare centers and carries out attacks on Israel.
 The extent of Iranian support for Iraqi insurgents has been debated within the administration since last spring, American officials said. While blaming outside support could be viewed as a convenient explanation for a tenacious insurgency, officials who spoke of the intelligence from Iraq made clear that the most serious threats to security there remained home-grown: Iraqis still loyal to Saddam Hussein, Iraqi Shiite militants and criminals, although the effects of foreign influence and foreign terrorists remain significant.
 Administration and military officials say financial support from Iran is especially vital in allowing Mr. Sadr to challenge the new Iraqi leadership and the American military.
 Mr. Sadr still can attract fighters from among the tens of thousands of disenfranchised, poor Shiite youths. But Pentagon and military officials say he has alienated the business class of Shiite moderates in southern Iraq, where the economy was disrupted by the fighting to dislodge his forces.
 ''He is not popular in Karbala and Najaf,'' said one senior military officer. So the money from Iran is critical in keeping Mr. Sadr's movement alive, officials say.
 Weapons smuggled into Iraq from Iran are also a concern, but officials note that Iraq remains awash anyway in Baathist-era automatic rifles and domestic military ordnance. 
 In a new assessment of the changing face of the Iraqi insurgency, Pentagon and military officials now speak of what appears to be a small but worrisome alliance with Iraq's Sunni insurgents -- mostly loyalists to Mr. Hussein's ousted government and Hussein-era military officers -- who may be offering tactical combat training to the Sadr militia. 
 Senior military officers cite reports that a small number of Sunni insurgents have assisted Mr. Sadr's militia with explosives and sniper training.
 Although the Sunni minority fears Shiite majority control of a unified Iraq, the new reports of cooperation indicate that the Sunni insurgency in a triangle of central and north-central Iraq is aided by Shiite fighters tying down thousands of American soldiers in the Najaf region.
 ''There are alliances of convenience,'' a partment official said. 
 Iraqi leaders, including Dr. Allawi and Defense Minister Hazim al-Shalaan, have contended in past public statements that Iran is providing weapons and material support to Mr. Sadr. Shiite clerics run Iran, and Shiites make up most of Iraq's population. But Dr. Allawi, asked in an interview with ABC News whether Iranians were causing trouble in Iraq, responded in a more tepid fashion.
 ''Well, we don't know,'' Dr. Allawi said, according to a transcript of the full interview provided by the ABC News program ''This Week.'' ''There are some people, some elements, who are coming and still are coming from Iran into Iraq.'' Dr. Allawi, who will travel to the United States this week in his first visit as acting prime minister, said the issue was of sufficient concern that he sent a deputy to meet with Iran's president and foreign minister. 
 For its part, Iran has denied accusations of interference in Iraq's affairs, repeatedly called for the withdrawal of all American-led forces from Iraq and officially invited Dr. Allawi to visit. Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, reporting Saturday on the arrival of Iraq's first ambassador to Iran since 1980, when the two countries began an eight-year war, said Dr. Allawi's visit would be a ''positive step.''
 Some Bush administration officials remain skeptical of the extent of Iranian actions. Even Mr. Powell has noted that, while some limited support for Mr. Sadr is likely, Iran would not necessarily want to support a group like Mr. Sadr's, which also sees itself as a rival to Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the most powerful Shiite cleric in Iraq. Mr. Sistani was born in Iran and has strong links to its clerical leaders.
 ''There are reasons for them to cooperate with one another and there are strong reasons why there is a limit to that cooperation,'' Mr. Powell said in the Washington Times interview.
 Mr. Powell also said the administration was concerned about support for Iraqi insurgents from Syria. That concern was raised with Syrian leaders on a recent trip to Damascus by two administration officials, William J. Burns, assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, and Peter W. Rodman, assistant defense secretary for international security affairs.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Militiamen loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr taking cover as Americans shelled a building in August in Najaf, Iraq. American officials say money from Iran is critical in keeping Mr. Sadr's movement alive. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)
 Colin L. Powell said the extent of Iranian influence was unclear. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); TRENDS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); POLITICS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (64%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Foreign Aid; Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Thom Shanker; Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Moktada Al- Sadr; Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



415 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Island Tries to Evade Flight Path

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SHIMOJI SHIMA, Japan, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Too tiny to appear on most maps, this tropical island of snorkelers and sugar cane farmers, of turquoise waters and red soil flecked with white coral, may appear on the agendas of President Bush and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi when they meet Tuesday on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
 Shimoji Shima, population 75 and less than four square miles, has something the militaries of the United States and Japan desperately want: a 10,000-foot concrete runway, about halfway between Okinawa Island and Taiwan. In the 160-mile island chain of the Southern Ryukyus, the runway here is the only one capable of safely handling a fully loaded F-15C fighter jet.
 The United States is worried about Chinese saber-rattling over Taiwan and rising sentiment against American bases on Okinawa's main island. In a sign of the times, United States Air Force commanders canceled an air show at Kadena Air Base on Wednesday, and called in the Japanese police on Thursday when protesters started shoving Marine guards the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station. 
 Japan is worried about a long-running border dispute with China that has left the confines of diplomacy for the open waters of the East China Sea. Six months ago, a boatload of Chinese citizens landed on one of the Senkakus, an island group 125 miles northwest of here claimed by both Japan and China. A Japanese Coast Guard ship arrived, and the protesters were detained and sent back to China.
 But the economic prize behind the obscure island dispute came into sharp focus last month as China started laying a 291-mile gas pipeline from Shanghai to Chunxiao, a huge undersea gas reservoir believed to straddle both nations' claims. Without waiting for the dispute to be settled, a Chinese-led international consortium started to build drilling rigs this summer. It intends to extract gas next year from an 8,500-square-mile field estimated to hold up to nine trillion cubic feet, enough to meet all of China's needs for seven years at current consumption rates.
 Furious, Shoichi Nakagawa, Japan's minister of economy, trade and industry, flew over the field on June 23 to inspect the Chinese gas complex. Although the Chinese are drilling in uncontested Chinese waters, the Japanese believe that the Chinese will suck up Japanese gas. From Beijing and Tokyo, diplomats have been trading such words as ''regrettable'' and ''provocation.'' 
 In this environment, high-level American and Japanese discussions were held in Tokyo this month about opening Shimoji Shima's civilian airstrip to military use -- largely maritime patrols and joint training drills -- by American and Japanese pilots.
 ''There is determination of the top leadership in the Defense Agency to move forward on Shimoji,'' said a Washington-based American military expert who talked to principals from both countries. ''It would help if Bush would say to Koizumi next week, 'We really need this, can you make it happen?'''
 Lance Gatling, an aerospace expert in Tokyo, said, ''If you move to Shimoji Shima, you get closer to the Taiwan Straits, which is currently one of the missions in Okinawa.''
 A spokeswoman for the Defense Agency said Friday that ''there have been no proposals'' to allow military use of the strip here. But on Sept. 2, Japanese helicopters, a fighter plane, military ships and 800 soldiers took part in an unprecedented ''disaster prevention'' exercise on Ishigaki, Shimoji Shima's immediate western neighbor. 
 But as news of the talks started to leak out, it drew Okinawan opposition. With many Okinawans committed to shifting their economy from military spending to ecological tourism, they voiced opposition to the idea of American warplanes using the strip here, originally built to train Japanese commercial jet pilots.
 ''I'm shocked and feel a strong sense of crisis,'' Akira Ishimine, who heads the regional municipal leaders association, told officials on Wednesday on the nearby island of Miyako. ''I will absolutely not let our ports, as well as Shimoji Shima Airport, be used for military purposes.''
 On Thursday, Miyako Mainichi, the region's newspaper, carried three articles, including interviews with residents, who held universally negative views of the proposal. Residents worried that their islands could become targets for terrorism or pawns in a conflict with China. 
 ''Okinawan people had an awful experience during the war and are very much sensitive about such a issue,'' Yasuto Hamakawa, a taxi driver, said Friday, referring to heavy losses suffered by civilians during World War II. ''Their image of the military is directly connected to the war. So I think majority of people here are against such a plan.''
 Across Okinawa, the opposition to maintaining a heavy American military presence here has grown. In a survey conducted last weekend by the newspaper Asahi Shimbun, 81 percent of 901 Okinawan voters surveyed said they did not want military air operations at Futenma here to be shifted to an artificial island to be built about 40 miles away. For many Okinawans, the move should be to Guam or Hawaii.
 From one economic point of view, military use of Shimoji Shima would help turn around a regional decline. With young people repelled by the hard work and low pay of fishing and sugar cane farming, the combined populations of Shimoji Shima and its sister island of Irabu have dropped by half during the last quarter-century, to about 6,500 people today. With the population aging and tax collections shrinking, budgets are cut by closing schools and merging towns.
 Thirty years ago, when the concrete was laid here, the new airstrip was to bring a new economy: flight training and tourism.
 But tourism peaked 15 years ago when 1,000 tourists a month arrived here on direct flights from Okinawa Island. Traffic dwindled, then died in 1995, when the flight was abandoned. Tourism billboards with sun-faded signs now stand in front of an empty lot where the passenger terminal stood until it was destroyed by a typhoon a year ago.
 On Thursday afternoon, a few tourists gathered at the head of the runway to watch an apprentice All Nippon Airways pilot go through ''touch and go's'' at the controls of a Boeing 777. But, since peaking in 1992, use of the strip for training by ANA and Japan Airlines has dropped by 60 percent, as measured in flight hours and landings.
 ''The amount of training has decreased because the simulators have gotten better,'' Masatoshi Ando, director of JAL flight training.
 But Tokyo's generous subsidies to Okinawa, Japan's poorest prefecture, have taken some of the urgency out of the economic decline. Though the press in Tokyo has been talking about a military threat from China and though this is one of the last stops in Japan before mainland China, people here repeatedly expressed reluctance to get drawn into a superpower confrontation.
 ''If it is going to attract the attention of the Chinese, I don't want the Self Defense Forces here,'' a young man running a new beachfront convenience store said, referring to Japan's military. ''Our best hope is to reopen the civilian flights.''
 Nearby, Hideki Taketomi, 41, the manager of a new inn, said: ''China understands what the Ryukyus are. We want to avoid a conflict with the people of China. It is best to leave things as they are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An airliner approaching Shimoji Shima's 10,000-foot runway, originally built for tourism and flight training.
 A farmer tending his bonsai trees on Shimoji Shima, a small island with a population of 75 strategically situated near Taiwan, China's coast and an underwater natural gas field coveted by China and Japan. (Photographs by Elena Aframova for The New York Times)Map of the Pacific Ocean highlighting Shimoji Shima

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (88%); WATER SPORTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); AIRLINES (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); AIR FORCES (74%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); SUGAR FARMING (73%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); CONSUMPTION (64%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Aircraft; United States International Relations; Military Bases and Installations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Travel and Vacations; Environment; Airlines and Airplanes; Pilots

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); US AIR FORCE (56%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%) James Brooke; George W (Pres) Bush; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) KYUSHU, JAPAN (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); JAPAN (96%); TAIWAN (94%) Japan; Shimoji Shima (Japan); Okinawa and Other Ryukyu Islands; China; Japan; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



416 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Intimidation Alleged in Vote In Kazakhstan

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER PALA

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Kazakhstan voted for a largely toothless Parliament on Sunday in an election marred by low turnout, widespread irregularities and a climate of intimidation.
 Human rights monitors said the election contradicted government promises that Kazakhstan, an oil-producing nation nearly four times the size of Texas, was slowly moving toward democracy.
 The election was held under a new law praised for bringing Kazakhstan closer to international standards than most former Soviet republics. 
 But Dos Kushyn, the director of the Network of Independent Monitors, which placed 2,000 observers around the country, said after polls closed: ''I have never seen such a degree of unreadiness and focused falsification among the electoral commissions. In the last elections, there were violations, but nothing like this.''
 Acacia Shields, a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch, said in an interview in Almaty: ''This election really discredits Kazakhstan's bid to be known as the democracy of Central Asia. It sets a sour precedent for upcoming elections throughout the region.''
 About 330 foreign observers working under the aegis of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe are expected to deliver their assessment on Monday afternoon, after the results are known.
 Kazakhstan, a multiethnic Muslim nation where more than a third of the population is Russian, has religious freedom, a well-managed economy and strong economic growth. Political killings are unknown, and the only political prisoner was allowed to leave prison for house arrest so he could resume running the main opposition party, Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan.
 The new election law was a result of international and domestic pressure on the government of President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev. It included a provision for computer voting in some urban precincts.
 Voters cast a ballot for one of 12 parties but were not told who was running on each party list. They also voted for one of as many as 20 candidates but were not shown which party, if any, the candidates represented.
 The system is ''complicated and cumbersome,'' said Patrick Merloe, director of election programs at the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs in Washington.
 The computerized system also raised fears that the government could know how everyone had voted.
 Yulia, 19, a kindergarten teacher who spoke on the condition that her last name not be used, said her school director had gathered all the teachers and told them to call their students' parents and tell them that they must vote for a pro-presidential candidate, or their children would face expulsion.
 ''She told us to vote for this woman, and she said that she would know how we voted,'' Yulia said with disgust.
 Kanat, 21, a geography student who also spoke on the condition that only his first name be used, said the 200 residents of his student housing unit had been told that if they did not vote for the candidate of the president's party, Otan, they would lose their housing.
 ''I voted for an opposition party because I'm in my fourth year and I have my opinions, but I think the younger students all voted for Otan out of fear,'' he said.
 Tom Bridle, of the National Democratic Institute, said, ''We've observed a climate of intimidation all day set by local officials that really undermine confidence in the fairness of these elections.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (66%); CHILDREN (65%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); HOUSE ARREST (64%); ARRESTS (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (56%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (55%)

PERSON: Christopher Pala

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Kazakhstan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



417 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Hearst Land Settlement Leaves Bitter Feelings

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

DATELINE: SAN SIMEON, Calif., Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The mesmerizing tranquillity at San Simeon Cove this weekend was far removed from the turmoil surrounding the future of the cove and of the 18-mile stretch of wild, undeveloped coast from here north almost to the Monterey County line. 
 After fighting for years to preserve unfettered public access to the area, conservationists say they have been defeated by a state board's approval on Wednesday of an agreement that allows the land's owner, the Hearst Corporation, to restrict the public's use of the entire stretch of coast.
 The agreement is part of a larger deal under which the state will pay $95 million to descendants of the publishing magnate William Randolph Hearst to preserve most of the 82,000-acre Hearst Ranch. The property included the legendary Hearst Castle, the family's 85-year-old crown jewel, until it was donated to the State of California in the 1950's.
 The effort to save the rest of the property, widely considered the largest and most complex conservation deal in the United States, is being thoroughly scrutinized by land-use planners, conservationists and environmentalists who see it as a precursor for similar deals in the future. Some are not pleased by the way it has worked out. 
 A coalition of environmental and conservation groups has vigorously opposed the terms of the pact, which they say limits public access to whole swaths of pristine beaches and gives the Hearsts too much in return for too little.
 ''It's a lot about protecting the economic interests of the Hearst Corporation and very little about the protection of conservation values,'' said Patrick Veesart, a Sierra Club official who acts as a liaison between the organization's various state chapters. ''This deal actually results in a lower level of public access than the public currently enjoys.''
 Under the deal, the Hearst company will give up its right to develop much of its land here, although it will be allowed to build a 100-room hotel in the village of San Simeon, 15 houses for employees and 27 larger houses that, because the area is zoned for agricultural use, would each sit on parcels of at least 320 acres.
 State park officials will assume ownership of 13 miles of beachfront property, but, conservationists say, state officials agreed to the Hearsts' demand that public visits to the new state beaches be restricted to daylight hours.
 In addition, the state's beachfront property will not include San Simeon Cove, its beach or San Simeon Point, the promontory that overlooks it. Neither will it include the other two most appealing spots on the Hearsts' coastal stretch, Ragged Point and Pico Cove, which will remain in the family company's hands. While the public has always been able to use the coves and beaches, even though the Hearst family has owned them for more than 100 years, the agreement approved Wednesday by the Coastal Conservancy allows the Hearsts to begin restricting visits to San Simeon Point to just 100 people a day.
 Only 20 people at a time, once a month, will be able to visit Ragged Point and Pico Cove, and then only in the company of a guide.
 ''Hearst retained the most dramatic parcels,'' Susan Jordan, the director of the California Coastal Protection Network, said in an interview. ''They got the meat and we got the bun. This was our one chance to get real access to the coast for the public so that people, when they travel here, know that they can enjoy one of the most dramatic coastlines in the world. What we ended up with was crumbs.''
 The dispute illustrates the difficulties in finding a middle ground between the interest of the public, which is entitled by state law to access to the beach, and that of private entities like the Hearst trust, which controls vast tracts of land from which it has the right to profit. Opponents say that state officials, in their eagerness to strike a deal that would stave off extensive development, have been too generous with the Hearsts, who will receive $80 million in cash and $15 million in state tax credits. About $23 million came from federal transportation funds, allocated for scenic highway protection, with most of the balance provided by conservation bonds.
 The state Public Works Board is expected to ratify the terms of the agreement before the end of the year.
 In an interview, Stephen T. Hearst, who heads the Hearst Corporation's land division and is a great-grandson of William Randolph Hearst, said the deal's $95 million price tag did not take into account the appraised value of the land, which he said was $230 million.
 ''The difference between those two numbers is a donation by Hearst,'' Mr. Hearst said. Besides, he said, the agreement does not give carte blanche to the Hearst Corporation to develop the 27 parcels of ranch land. ''We would have to apply to the county planning commission and meet all their criteria,'' he said. ''We would have to comply with all county and state laws and everything else.''
 And rather than restricting access to the beach, he said, the pact would increase it. ''We're talking about increasing the usage to 100 people a day,'' he said. ''You do the math: That's 30,000 people, a whole lot more people than go out there now.''
 Mr. Hearst said the family company -- which owns newspapers, magazines, television stations and other assets -- had done all it could to accommodate conservationists and state officials.
 ''We've bent over backwards, without giving the state complete access to our property, which we're not going to do,'' said Mr. Hearst, 47. ''Everybody would like to have everything, but you've got the best deal we can make.''
 In any event, he said, the agreement was a far cry from a plan in 1965 that had called for turning the area into a city with 65,000 residents, complete with an airport, hotels and businesses.
 He said that the Hearst descendants -- there are 56 heirs in the family trust -- initially had ''no intention of selling'' any of the 128-square-mile property, and that the idea of doing so had been ''a hard sell in the family and in the boardroom.''
 Mr. Hearst insisted that under the agreement the state would have ''complete control'' over the 13 miles of beaches and bluffs it is acquiring to the west of Pacific Coast Highway. 
 Most opponents of the deal were not convinced.
 ''What Hearst is doing is retaining private beaches for the exclusive use of the folks who are going to be living in the mansions they're going to build,'' Mr. Veesart, a former member of the San Luis Obispo County Planning Commission, said as he strolled on the beach at San Simeon Cove, south of Big Sur and 245 miles north of Los Angeles. 
 ''I've been coming here since I was a teenager, since before I had gray hair,'' said Mr. Veesart, 52, who took particular exception to the clause in the agreement that limits the number of visitors to the cove to 100 a day. ''This will be the most exclusive subdivision on the West Coast. How many people can say they have Hearst Castle as their neighbor?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The hillsides of San Simeon, Calif., part of the Hearst property, include Hearst Castle, upper right. Under an agreement reached between the Hearst Corporation and the State of California, public use of the 18-mile stretch of coast on the property will be reduced, conservationists say. (Photographs by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)Map of California highlighting Hearst Ranch: The Hearst Ranch sits on 82,000 acres of undeveloped coastline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BEACHES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); CORPORATE GIVING (75%); APPROVALS (71%); DIVESTITURES (62%) Coastal Areas; Historic Buildings and Sites; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Land Use Policies

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Hearst Ranch (Calif); California Coastal Conservacy

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%)

PERSON: Nick Madigan; William Randolph Sr (1863-1951) Hearst

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) California; California

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



418 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Fact Check

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:

A Closer Look at Kerry's Record on Taxes
 At almost every campaign stop, President Bush accuses Senator John Kerry of having voted repeatedly for higher taxes on the middle class and of proposing more than $2 trillion in spending the country cannot afford.
 There is a kernel of truth in both statements. But like many charges the candidates exchange, they are exaggerated to the point of distortion.

WHAT BUSH SAYS
 Here is how Mr. Bush framed his charge at a rally in Pennsylvania last week:
 ''Over two decades in Washington, he has voted for higher income taxes, higher taxes on Social Security benefits. That's part of his record. He repeatedly voted for higher taxes on small businesses, higher taxes on gasoline. He voted against tax relief for married couples, for increasing the child credit, and against expanding tax-free retirement savings. We have a difference of opinion when it comes to taxation.
 ''If you drive a car, Senator Kerry has voted for higher taxes on you. If you have a job, he's voted for higher taxes on you. If you're married, or have children, he's voted for higher taxes on you.''
 Mr. Bush continued: ''On the campaign trail, he's proposed more than $2 trillion in new federal spending, so far. And we still have 54 more days to go. Now, he says he's going to pay for all that by raising taxes on the wealthiest 2 percent of the population.
 ''There's just one problem with that. My opponent's tax increases would bring only about $650 billion in revenue over the next 10 years, see. And he wants to spend over $2 trillion. So you do the math. The plan leaves him more than $1.4 trillion short.''

THE FACTS
 Mr. Kerry is less devoted to tax cuts than the president, and the Democrat has proposed a raft of new spending without showing explicitly how he would pay for it. But Mr. Bush exaggerates both points.
 The middle-class tax increases Mr. Kerry voted for (and the tax cuts he voted against) were parts of large bills mostly aimed at raising or lowering taxes on the wealthiest, and the additional spending he proposed would be somewhat offset by suggested spending cuts that the Bush campaign does not mention. 
 Mr. Kerry voted for the 1990 tax increase sought by Mr. Bush's father and the one offered by President Bill Clinton in 1993, both of which were intended to cut the deficit. The bulk of the higher taxes in both laws fell on upper-income taxpayers. But the 1993 law did include an increased gasoline tax and a new tax on the Social Security benefits of retirees with incomes over about $45,000 for a couple.
 The revenue from the latter is used to help meet a shortfall in Medicare, the medical insurance program used by most Social Security recipients.
 As for small businesses, Mr. Kerry has voted most of the time to cut their taxes, including his vote for the 2002 Bush tax cuts. 
 Mr. Bush's large 2001 tax bill, which Mr. Kerry voted against, did lower the taxes for some middle-income couples by eliminating what was called the marriage penalty, and it gave a tax credit to most parents with children at home. 
 Mr. Kerry could not support those elements without voting for the entire bill. He opposed the overall legislation, which awarded about 40 percent of the total tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers.
 On the spending side, Mr. Kerry's campaign says that his proposals would total only slightly more than $1 trillion over 10 years, not more than $2 trillion as the president charged. The difference in estimates seems to result largely from the Kerry campaign's counting only specific proposals he has made since the spring and the Bush campaign's including most of the spending that Mr. Kerry has supported in recent years.
 For instance, Mr. Kerry once supported significant new money for Head Start, the preschool program, but that is no longer part of his campaign platform.
 Jason Furman, one of Mr. Kerry's top economic advisers, said Mr. Kerry's proposals for about $200 billion in new spending for education and for expanded access to health insurance -- which he said would cost about $650 billion over 10 years -- would be offset by his proposal to raise taxes on people with incomes above $200,000 a year.
 The Kerry campaign calculates that the higher taxes would generate $860 billion over 10 years.
 Mr. Furman said the rest of the new spending Mr. Kerry envisioned would be offset by spending reductions. Some of these savings are rather vague, like money saved from reducing corporate tax cuts, closing tax loopholes and improving government efficiency. As a consequence, the president is probably justified in saying that all told, Mr. Kerry's spending would exceed the revenues and spending cuts. 
 But other proposed savings are quite specific. For example, the billions it would cost Mr. Kerry to increase the number of active duty troops by 40,000 would be paid for by cutting the spending Mr. Bush favors for a missile defense system. The Bush campaign does not give Mr. Kerry credit for such offsets.
 In addition, the Bush campaign seems to vastly overestimate the cost of some of Mr. Kerry's proposals. For instance, the Republicans say he wants to spend $300 billion on veterans health care, a figure apparently derived from a Congressional Budget Office study of a different proposal. The Kerry campaign calculates that what Mr. Kerry is proposing for veterans would cost $26 billion.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); MARRIAGE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%) Taxation; Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%) David E Rosenbaum; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



419 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for the Candidate to Emerge

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I had a feeling John Kerry was in trouble when, coming out of the primaries, voters kept saying they were for him because he could win. It was clear that many voters had cast primary ballots for Mr. Kerry not because they liked him, or because they felt strongly about his positions on the issues, or because they were drawn to his compelling vision of a better future for the United States and the world, but simply because they felt he was capable of beating George W. Bush.
 History tells us you need more of a rationale than that to win the White House. The best candidates offer the electorate not just something, but someone, to believe in. Describing the aftermath of Harry Truman's remarkable triumph over Thomas E. Dewey in 1948, the biographer David McCullough wrote: 
 ''To such staunch Truman loyalists as Sam Rayburn and George Marshall, to the weary White House staff workers who had been with him all the way, there was never any question as to why Truman won. He had done it by being himself, never forgetting who he was, and by getting to the people in his own fashion.''
 Who is John Kerry? He doesn't seem to want to let on. More than anything else, he presents himself as someone who fought in Vietnam. But that was more than 30 years ago. Who is he now?
 A longtime Democratic operative recently complained, ''He's not displaying a moral center, or showing us a philosophical foundation. For him, it's all about tactics.''
 Mr. Kerry has suffered recently in the polls primarily because of his reluctance to put his authentic self on display. He's run a cautious, soulless campaign so far, saying only the things he thinks he should, and shadow boxing instead of really mixing it up, as if he were afraid, as Bonnie Raitt once memorably sang, ''to throw a punch that might land.''
 If Mr. Kerry has a message, he's garbled it pretty badly. If he's passionate about anything, he's kept it to himself. George Adair, a 50-year-old Democrat from Alabama who responded to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, was succinct on this point: ''I don't feel I have a clear enough picture of Mr. Kerry's agenda.''
 There is a hunger in America for change. Doubts are rising daily about the fiasco in Iraq. There is a sense that the threat of a terrorist attack in the U.S. may be increasing rather than receding. Economic insecurity remains high. 
 I believe American voters would exchange George W. Bush for a first-rate Democratic candidate in a heartbeat. More than 50 percent of the poll respondents believed the country was headed in the wrong direction. But the poll also showed that regardless of how the respondents intended to vote, 61 percent believed Mr. Bush would win in November.
 Mr. Kerry has only a few weeks to turn things around. Nearly everyone who thinks the Bush administration has been a disaster for the United States is rooting for him. Sort of. More precisely, they are rooting for Mr. Bush to lose. And this, I think, is Mr. Kerry's fundamental problem.
 He was selected by Democratic voters because they thought he could beat the president. But he has yet to exhibit the warmth or political savvy necessary to fully energize potential supporters and achieve that victory. An overly cerebral campaign fronted by a candidate too inhibited to blow the whistle on the insanity surrounding us is a big-time recipe for defeat.
 John Kerry needs to make a stronger emotional connection with voters, and he won't be able to do that without revealing more of what he truly feels and believes -- in other words, more of himself.
 Voters may want change, but they don't want to step into the unknown. The race is still close enough for Mr. Kerry to prevail, and there are debates coming up. But time is short.
 The No. 1 issue facing the United States is the war in Iraq. Senator Kerry intends to address that issue again this week. If he tries to finesse it, if he tries to play hawk and dove at the same time, if he fails to draw convincingly a clear and distinct line between his approach to this great tragic misadventure and that of the Bush administration, he might as well fold his campaign tents and go home.
 Senator Kerry said over the weekend that he was ready to step up his campaign effort, that he was in a ''fighting mood.'' We'll see.
 Leadership at times requires great courage. John Kerry has not yet closed the deal with voters who are dissatisfied with President Bush. He may find, in the final weeks of this campaign, that the most important quality he can draw upon is the courage to be himself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); TERRORISM (69%); WRITERS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Bob Herbert; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



420 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Reading Kerry's Mind

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I am John Kerry, falling further behind in the polls with only six weeks to go. 
 I've already shaken up my staff again; Cahill, Shrum and the whole Kennedy crowd were fine for the late primaries, but their war-hero strategy was all wrong for the general election. Now I've got Sasso and the Clinton heavy-hitters calling the shots. What can we do to stop the erosion in the polls and turn this campaign around? 
 1. Change the strategic target. It's not the swing voter who counts -- I'm told there aren't that many of them. It's the Democratic base that has to be whipped up and turned out.
 2. Ignore my peripheral messages that show no traction. Unemployment keeps drifting down and the stock market is going up, so the economy doesn't help me. Deficits don't scare people, taxing the rich shows no traction, and Bush has muddied up the health and education issues. Scaring the old folks about privatization of Social Security only drives younger voters to the G.O.P. 
 3. Stop wasting time magnifying the fury of the Bush-haters. Halliburton is not the Manchurian Candidate. And our supporters are no good at dirty tricks -- that fiasco with CBS, which I pray that the D.N.C. had nothing to do with, will keep backfiring on us for weeks. The ''fortunate son'' business hasn't hurt Bush -- and I wasn't exactly born in a log cabin.
 4. Recognize that the war is the switcher issue and take a stand that I can stick with for at least six weeks. Blazing away at his past mistakes falls flat. When I hit Bush on misleading us, he hits me back for voting both ways, and it's at best a wash. So I have to focus now on the bloody present under him versus the bright future under me. Simple: ''Bush is losing the war and Kerry will win it.'' That would give me a leg up in the debates, on which a turnaround depends.
 5. Don't let Bush get away with being ''misunderestimated'' again as a debater. He's a master at the ''better than expected'' game. He has Bill Weld telling all and sundry what a great debater I am. We have to remind everybody that Bush, with his phony aw-shucks personality, has won every debate he's been in. Then, after I whip him or he makes some massive blunder -- and I'll set him up for at least one -- I'll slam him for being afraid to face me a third time. 
 6. Get a slogan that fits on a bumper sticker. My ''W stand for Wrong'' isn't working because too many hear ''wrong'' as beginning with an R. Instead, be ready when Bush's people trot out Lincoln's wartime ''Don't Change Horses in Midstream.'' Come back with F.D.R.'s blast at Herbert Hoover after the crash: ''Change Horses or Drown!''
 7. Duck all the gotcha! news conferences. I'll get away with Imus and Oprah and Larry King and let the hard-news media holler about softballs. 
 8. Lower the opposition's beltline. It makes me sick at heart to have to claim that $200 billion for the war could be better spent at home. That isolationist knee to the groin sounds as if it came from Dean or even McGovern, but as Bush likes to say -- ''Whatever it takes.''
 9. Hit hard the monopoly-of-power horror. A G.O.P. White House and Congress means a Supreme Court that would overturn Roe v. Wade. We must convince women that a vote for Bush means a return to back-alley abortions. Edwards should be going for the jugular on this, but he's showing only an instinct for the capillaries. And that takes me to the 10th commandment of the new, improved Kerry campaign:
 10. Above all, win back the women who used to be with the Democrats. Bush has them believing that the fighting in Iraq is for the security of their families. Too many women can't get it through their heads that Iraq is just a distraction from the global terror war. And Bush's pitch about ''better fighting over there than here'' -- tying Iraq to Al Qaeda -- closes what used to be our huge gender gap. So I have to move on to ''while he's spinning, we're losing'' -- and never mind that it makes me dependent on escalation by Zarqawi and pessimism from C.I.A. flip-floppers who were wrong before but who now want jobs in my administration. 
 Yes, scared women are the key, so enough with my sensitive nuances. They want Mr. Tough Guy -- from now to November, that's what they'll get.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); EROSION (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; United States Economy; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Elections; Women; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Senate (US) ; House of Representatives (US); Supreme Court (US); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) William Safire; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



421 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Picking a Fight With Venezuela

BYLINE: By Michael Shifter. 
Michael Shifter is a vice president at the Inter-American Dialogue, a center for policy analysis.

 BODY:
The Bush administration's decision to stop supporting $250 million in loan requests that Venezuela has before international financial institutions has gone virtually unnoticed. Yet, by invoking such sanctions now, Washington risks making another mistake in dealing with Venezuela's mercurial strongman, President Hugo Chavez. 
 In announcing its decision earlier this month, the White House cited Venezuela's role in the international trafficking of women and children for sexual exploitation. The administration deserves credit for making this issue a high priority. 
 There are, however, serious questions about the motives behind the decision. The trafficking rationale seems particularly odd. It is hard to see what the sanctions could actually accomplish, and how they might work to promote the interests of the United States, inter-American relations and democratic stability in Latin America. 
 This is not a smart way to deal with Mr. Chavez, especially since his popular appeal was ratified in a referendum last month. Though the election has been disputed and is still regarded as fraudulent by many opposition forces, Mr. Chavez has emerged with enhanced legitimacy in the eyes of the international community. Given the shrill exchanges between the Bush and Chavez administrations, however, over the past few years, it was still predictable that Washington accepted the results only grudgingly. 
 The moment seemed propitious for the two countries to pursue a more pragmatic relationship. That Venezuela is the fourth-largest oil supplier to the United States -- at a time of great uncertainty in the Middle East -- should in itself impel a search for a modus vivendi. 
 Instead, the decision will discourage a better relationship. While the sanctions may have satisfied some hard-liners in the Bush administration, they are also likely to give further ammunition to hard-liners in Caracas who have long insisted that it is futile to seek to engage a hostile Washington. Rather than contributing to the Chavez administration's moderation, the decision could foster radicalization. 
 The sanctions will amount to little more than a pinprick in any case, and the loans could still be approved by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, with backing from other nations. The $250 million involved is small change for Mr. Chavez, who is enjoying a tremendous windfall from record oil prices. This hardly constitutes real pressure. The impact -- either in reducing trafficking or making Mr. Chavez more democratic -- will be minimal at best. The measure will also probably prompt other Latin American governments to vote in favor of the loans to Venezuela -- if for no other reason than to get back at the United States. They will regard the sanctions as politically motivated, and be perplexed by Washington's reasoning and timing. They will be reminded of the longstanding, counterproductive United States policy towards Cuba (recall Washington's recent charges of biological weapons in that country). 
 The human trafficking rationale for the sanctions risks trivializing, and politicizing, one of Latin America's most critical problems. Independent human rights experts say that Venezuela's record, though of great concern, is no more egregious than many other countries that have somehow managed to escape similar treatment. In the State Department's 2003 report on human trafficking, Venezuela did not even appear among the five worst offenders in the Western Hemisphere. True, in the same report released in June, Venezuela had moved to the most problematic category (Tier 3). But the Bush administration has not provided compelling and persuasive evidence that warrants singling out one country. 
 At some point, sanctions that actually respond to and fit the violation may be an appropriate lever to induce democratic change. But for now, it is far more important for the United States, along with other Latin American countries, to engage Venezuela for the long term in hopes of keeping Mr. Chavez's autocratic tendencies in check and encouraging democratic progress. Washington's initial, tacit approval of a coup two and a half years ago against Mr. Chavez undermined its ability to influence democracy in Venezuela. The latest decision will not help restore Washington's credibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEX TRAFFICKING (89%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) United States International Relations; Referendums; Politics and Government; Elections; Credit

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (81%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Michael Shifter; George W (Pres) Bush; Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



422 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

U.S. Forces Training Iraqis Have Their Own Shortages
The military command in charge of training and equipping Iraqi security forces has less than half of its permanent headquarters personnel in place, despite having one of the highest-priority roles in Iraq. A1

A militant group posted an Internet video showing the beheading of three men said to be members of the Kurdistan Democratic Party in Iraq. A statement by the group, the Army of Ansar al-Sunna, identified the men as truck drivers captured north of Baghdad as they were transporting vehicles to an American base. A14

Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain admonished other nations not to waiver in their support for military victory in Iraq and the establishment of democracy there, arguing that Iraq is now the ''crucible'' in which global terrorism will either succeed or founder. A14

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have raised sharp complaints that Iran is providing support for the insurgency in Iraq, expressing concerns over what they say are Iran's attempt to shape Iraq's future. A15

Transfer of Power in China
China's president, Hu Jintao, replaced Jiang Zemin as the country's military chief and de facto top leader. Mr. Hu will now set both foreign and domestic policy in China, which now has the world's seventh-largest economy and is rapidly emerging as a great power. A1

Iran Reacts to U.N. Pressure
Iran rejected a call by the United Nations nuclear monitoring agency to freeze all its uranium enrichment programs and warned that it would drop out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty if its case is sent to the Security Council. The Iranian government insists that its nuclear program is for electricity production only. A15

NATIONAL 16-23

Stem Cell Research On California's Ballot
The federal government spent $25 million last year on studies involving human embryonic stem cells. But an initiative on the California ballot would authorize the state to spend $300 million each year for the next 10 on stem cell research. A1

Portrait of Bush in '72
1972 has grown increasingly consequential for President Bush because of persistent questions about his National Guard service. An examination yields a portrait of a young man like many others. A1

After days of expressing confidence about the documents used in a ''60 Minutes'' report that raised new questions about President Bush's National Guard service, CBS News officials have grave doubts about the authenticity of the material, network officials said. A16

Hurricane Victims Come Home
For the first time since Hurricane Ivan hit, residents of Peeks Creek, N.C., who had barely escaped with their lives, were allowed to return to where their homes used to stand. A1

Tobacco Companies on Trial
The government is seeking to strip cigarette companies of $280 billion that Justice Department lawyers say was earned through fraud. The Federal District Court trial could put the companies out of business. A16

Hearst Land Deal Limits Access
Conservationists say they have been defeated by a California state board's approval of an agreement that allows the Hearst Corporation, owner of 18 miles of wild coastline, to restrict the public's use of it. A16

Kerry Pulls Some States' Ads
Senator John Kerry had hoped by now to be playing to a broader canvas, but data shows that he pulled back advertising in seven states, including the crucial battleground of Missouri. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Children Found Safe; Police Hunt for Father
Three children who the police said were kidnapped after watching their father kill their mother were found safe, officials said. The police were still looking for the suspect, Clifford Bonner, 42, in a wooded area in Valhallah. B1

Storms Force Evacuations
Thousands of people were forced to flee their homes along the Delaware River after the heavy rains caused by remnants of Hurricane Ivan led the river to swell to its highest level in decades. There were no deaths or serious injuries reported, but one house in Phillipsburg, N.J., was uprooted and carried down river. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-11

ARTS E1-8

Emmy Awards
The 56th annual Primetime Emmy awards took place under heavy security that left streets closed around the Shrine Auditorium and the campus of the University of Southern California. The cable network HBO, nominated for a staggering 124 awards, dominated the awards with ''The Sopranos,'' its gangster hit, winning the prize for best drama series. A22

OBITUARIES B10

Eddie Adams
A Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist and combat photographer whose black-and-white image of Brig. Gen. Nguyen Ngoc Loan, then serving as the national police chief of South Vietnam, executing a Vietcong prisoner was one of the most riveting images of the Vietnam War, he was 71. B10

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Sun's Comeback Bid
Sun Microsystems, once widely respected as a technology innovator, now faces the challenge of convincing customers that it remains relevant in a changing industry. C1

Enron Criminal Trial to Start
The first criminal trial stemming from the financial deals at Enron is scheduled to open in Houston with jury selection. Not a single former senior officer of the company will be among the six defendants, but the implications of the trail will be far-reaching. C1

Games Rely on Sequels
The videogame industry is relying heavily on sequels, with only two of the recent 10 best-selling video games based on original ideas. C1

MCI Said to Seek Buyers
MCI, the troubled telecommunications company, has quietly begun shopping itself to potential buyers, according to executives who are involved in the sale process. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: In defense of civil liberties; the House's fear of Tom DeLay; official business.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D11
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E2
Weather D12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HURRICANES (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); REFERENDUMS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (62%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: JAISH ANSAR AL-SUNNA (57%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004



423 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Study Raises Questions About Bioengineered Grass
A new study shows that genes from genetically engineered grass spread much farther than previously known. The finding raises questions about the straying of other plants altered through biotechnology, and could hurt the efforts of two companies to win approval for the first bioengineered grass.
 The two companies, Monsanto and Scotts, have developed a strain of creeping bentgrass for use on golf courses that is resistant to the widely used herbicide Roundup. It would allow groundskeepers to spray the herbicide on their greens and fairways to kill weeds while leaving the grass unscathed. [Page A1.]

I.M.F. Leader Warns U.S. on Deficit
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Rodrigo de Rato, said that the dollar would have to fall and the United States would have to tackle its growing indebtedness to avoid a threat to the world economy some time in the future. In an address in New York, Mr. de Rato did not spare rich or poor nations in his diagnosis of the world economy and said it was a good time for all countries to begin cutting their deficits and making needed changes. [World Business, Section W.]

Delta Reaches Accord With Pilots
Delta Air Lines and its pilots' union reached a tentative agreement on a plan to avoid service disruptions that could result from a flood of early pilot retirements. [C4.]

Nintendo Changes Its Tactics
In a shift in strategy, Nintendo is expected to announce that it plans to begin selling its next generation of hand-held video game devices in the United States in time for the coming holiday season. [C2.]

Stocks Fall on Lowered Forecasts
Stocks dropped as the Colgate-Palmolive Company and Unilever cut profit forecasts. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 6.35 points, to 1,122.20. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 79.57 points, to 10,204.89. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.02 points, to 1,908.07. [C12.]

United to Offer Premium Service
United Airlines is ready to start a transcontinental service to lure high-paying business fliers to pay top dollar for flat-bed seats and other frills. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C16.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,204.89 down 79.57Nasdaq composite -- 1,908.07 down 2.0210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2165 down 0.0013The dollar -- 109.86 yen down 0.05Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Housing Construction since Feb.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -2.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); HERBICIDES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); APPROVALS (77%); GOLF (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); AIRLINES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (66%); MONSANTO CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (66%); MON (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (54%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (66%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



424 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Venerable Yacht Builder Tries to Regain Its Sea Legs

BYLINE: By AARON NATHANS

DATELINE: STURGEON BAY, Wis. 

 BODY:
Generations of the rich and powerful have looked to this remote peninsula city on Lake Michigan, where the boat builder Palmer Johnson has long made and serviced their playthings of the sea.
 The company itself knows what it is like to be a trophy possession: it was bought in 2000 for an undisclosed price by the founder and chairman of the company behind the job search site Monster.com. That voyage, however, ended with Palmer Johnson in bankruptcy. 
 Now it is out of bankruptcy and owned by another wealthy investor -- a British financier and former cricket player. This time, executives say, they can return Palmer Johnson to its former glory by introducing a sleek new motor yacht design and concentrating on building boats. 
 ''People used to be able to say, 'Wow, there's a Palmer Johnson,''' said the company's president, Mike Kelsey Jr. ''This is where we're going again.''
 Indeed, Palmer Johnson has outfitted the king of Spain, Ted Turner and many barons of industry with swift, elegant yachts. The company built the world's largest aluminum yacht, the 195-foot Baronessa, in 1998.
 But such yachts are costly. The challenge for Mr. Kelsey, whose family owned Palmer Johnson for nearly 40 years before selling to Andrew J. McKelvey of Monster, is to preserve its luxury niche while keeping its costs competitive with those of rivals in Europe and Australia. Customers pay $12 million to $20 million for the class of yachts sold by makers like Palmer Johnson. More than 75 percent of these boats are motor, rather than sailing, yachts, according to ShowBoats International, a trade magazine. 
 For more than 150 years, craftsmen in Sturgeon Bay have launched ships into the Great Lakes; from here they sail down the St. Lawrence Seaway and into the Atlantic. During World War II, Sturgeon Bay had four shipbuilding companies that finished 258 boats, including tugboats and submarine chasers. 
 Today, the city has just two boat builders, Palmer Johnson and the Bay Shipbuilding Corporation, which makes big industrial boats. Between them only seven boats are under construction. The old Peterson Builders boatyard closed in 1995, and the site is being redeveloped into condominiums and a marina. The Emerson Motor Company closed last year, and 200 workers lost their jobs.
 ''We need these industrial jobs, something other than bed making and other seasonal tourist jobs,'' said John Burkee, 65, an instructor at a nearby technical college.
 Italy is the world's largest producer of yachts, and the United States is second, with custom yacht makers like Burger Boat in nearby Manitowoc, Wis.; Christensen in Vancouver, Wash.; Trinity in New Orleans; and Delta Marine in Seattle, and makers of smaller mass-produced boats like Hatteras and Sea Ray. 
 But in the American market, only Palmer Johnson makes the custom-built, European-style sport boats known affectionately as ''cafe cruisers'' that zip from one port to the next, said Marilyn Mower, editor at large of ShowBoats International. Its Italian competitors include Codecasa, Cantieri di Pisa and Azimut-Benetti, she said. Palmer Johnson even employs an Italian design company, Nuvolari-Lenard.
 As sailing yachts became less popular in the 1990's, and other countries made them more cheaply, Palmer Johnson turned toward big, majestic motor yachts, competing with top-of-the-line models from the Netherlands, Germany, Australia and Italy.
 Bigger yachts meant big price tags, and, as Mr. Kelsey put it, his father was unable to weather the down years. Mr. McKelvey, a customer who was enamored of his 115-foot Mostro, thought he had the resources to make a go of it. He called the purchase ''a great opportunity to expand Palmer Johnson's current position as America's premier quality yacht builder to true world-class status.''
 But the bear market years of 2000 through 2003 offered no such opportunity. Mr. McKelvey said in an interview that his losses were less than $20 million. Even so, in early 2003, the Sturgeon Bay operation laid off 60 workers, just before creditors forced the company into bankruptcy. 
 The company cited the stagnant world economy, fewer new yacht contracts, a spate of lawsuits -- litigation continues between Mr. McKelvey and a customer who claims he received an unfinished yacht -- and investment in other divisions, especially refitting and service. At the same time, the dot-com bubble was bursting, and Mr. McKelvey, needing to cover some loans, sold off shares in the parent company of Monster. (After the sale, the parent, TMP Worldwide, changed its name to Monster Worldwide.)
 ''I think to own a dominant boat-yard like Palmer Johnson, it's a full-time job,'' Mr. McKelvey said. ''And as C.E.O. of Monster, I just did not have the time to spend, both with prospective clients, existing clients and to be up in Sturgeon Bay on a regular basis.'' He added: ''It's a tough business as an absentee owner.'' 
 Mr. Kelsey said he understood. ''Andy had 150 companies,'' he said. ''There were other fish to fry. When his stock would drop $10 in a few days, guess what he was watching? It wasn't the yachts being built. It was covering the bases back home. So I understand that.''
 Mr. McKelvey sold Palmer Johnson's operations in Savannah, Ga., to Timur Mohamed, whose 120-foot sport motor yacht was under construction in Sturgeon Bay. Born in British Guyana, Mr. Mohamed made his fortune from working the rich shrimping waters off Guyana and Suriname, as well as from real estate, Mr. Kelsey said. 
 In early 2004, the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Milwaukee allowed Mr. Mohamed, 47, to buy the Sturgeon Bay operations. 
 Mr. McKelvey said he and Mr. Mohamed are suing each other over the Savannah operations, but he would not discuss details of the suits. Mr. Mohamed, who has not spoken to the press since buying Palmer Johnson, declined to be interviewed.
 When Mr. Mohamed took over the Sturgeon Bay operations in February, two yachts were waiting to be finished, Mr. Kelsey said. The last one left the shipyard in June. ''We inherited a lot of projects when we took the company over that were big losers,'' he added, noting that Mr. Mohamed spent ''a massive amount of money'' to finish them.
 Mr. Mohamed also closed the company's refitting operations and moved the Savannah operations to a nearby yard, which he bought and subsequently sold. The company now leases space there to build ships. 
 Palmer Johnson now has four sport motor yachts under construction in Sturgeon Bay, and three motor yachts with raised pilot houses, a more traditional design, are being built in Savannah. The first of the pilot house yachts will have its premiere at the Fort Lauderdale boat show this October, Mr. Kelsey said. Not all the new boats have owners, he said, but some do. In time, he added, the company plans to reintroduce the product that made it famous: sailing yachts.
 Mr. Mohamed is on six conference calls a day with the company, if he is not on site, Mr. Kelsey said. Jesse Madoche, the lead joinerman in Sturgeon Bay, said he saw Mr. Mohamed walking through the factory twice a month.
 The company has slimmed its payroll, especially in nonfactory jobs, Mr. Kelsey said. During Mr. McKelvey's tenure, the company had 500 to 600 workers; now it has just over 300, Mr. Kelsey said.
 ''My father said many times that we were the last bastion of artisans left in the world, creating out of metal these works of art for people who can afford them,'' Mr. Kelsey said. ''And thank God for the people who can afford them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Kelsey Jr., president of Palmer Johnson, at one of the company's shipyards. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 As sailing yachts became less popular in the 1990's, Palmer Johnson focused on big, majestic motor yachts costing millions of dollars. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT BUILDING (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); SHIPBUILDING (89%); SAILING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); SEASONAL WORKERS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); CRICKET (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Boats and Boating; Company and Organization Profiles; Yachts and Yachting

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Palmer Johnson

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: Mike Jr Kelsey; Aaron Nathans

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (78%); EUROPE (75%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



425 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; VOICES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Six Entrepreneurs Look Up, and Offer Advice

BYLINE: By BRIAN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
What can big business learn from small business? Here are views of small-business operators on big companies. BRIAN ALEXANDER

TERRY MAXWELL, 60, started Ergonomic Products Inc. in 1993 when few people had heard of ergonomics. The company, in Mesa, Ariz., makes computer accessories like armrests. Though his sales, mostly to corporations like Motorola and the Bank of America, have fallen with competition from big office products catalogs, Maxwell still sells about $100,000 of his goods a year.
 ''I think it is mainly details and follow-up. As a small-business person, you want that repeat business, so after I have shipped the product to the client, I call and make sure it arrived on time, and that it was not damaged and they are satisfied; you know, is the color correct? If not, then I can correct it immediately.
 ''And big business should not forget small business. There are good products out there from small businesses. I can get the same products and sell them cheaper than what they are buying them for. But everybody is streamlining, trying to go from 50 vendors to 4, which I suppose makes sense with less paperwork, fewer people, but when you do business with a smaller company, well, say you call the big vendor for a product and they tell you it will take four to six weeks. But if they called me, because I've worked with my supplier for so long, I can go to him and say: 'Hey, Joe, I've got a special order. Put me in front of the line,' and I would have them in 10 days.''

PAMELA MOORE, 41, invented Ice Tubes, tube-shaped molds that produce rods of ice that fit into beverage bottles and keep drinks cold. Ms. Moore incorporated Ice Tubes in Tallmadge, Ohio, in 1998, and shipped her first molds to retail stores in 1999. She was among five winners of an award celebrating women in business at the 2004 Small Business Administration Expo. She said her company was recently valued at $5 million.
 ''I am just now getting to the point where I believe it's time to put together a board of directors. I am in the middle of selling to big business, so I need access to resources to deal with that other world.
 ''What frustrates me, without a doubt, is that everything is so complicated. Just to get a purchase order is one example. One company says it can't give me a purchase order until I have the actual inventory ready to ship. But that's a Catch-22, because we have to create that inventory without any commitment that they'll buy it. We committed $75,000 for supplies toward filling the order, but it is now two months later, and we still do not have a purchase order. 
 ''I think one reason why we have been successful is that we do not have layers and layers of corporate polish, so people can relate to us. That's what worries me a little about a board of directors. One day, I thought to myself, I hate wearing pantyhose in the summer. Are these people going to come in and tell me I have to wear pantyhose? That's not going to work!''

RALPH RUBIO, 47, a self-described San Diego beach bum, returned from a trip to Mexico in 1983 convinced that San Diegans would snap up the fish tacos that were a specialty of vendors there. Mr. Rubio opened a stand near the beach and grossed $43,000 the first year. Today, there are 152 Rubio's Fresh Mexican Grill restaurants. Last year, sales totaled just over $131 million. The company went public in 1999.
 ''At big companies, there is always the risk of not being close to the customer. I am really surprised sometimes how, just because a company is big, they forget that. Especially if it's a service business, like insurance or financial services; very few people bother to pick up the phone and say: 'How are you doing? How did we do last time we provided X?'
 ''The first two years were the most difficult because every day I'd put the key in the door and not know what would happen. But there was energy.
 ''It was kind of cool, an adrenaline rush like dropping into a wave. Some never really get that. If you do not catch it, it will get away from you. You'll become a 65-year-old C.E.O. and look back and say, Was it worth it? Business, business, seven days a week? Missed all those opportunities for the beach, time with family? You have to have balance.''

LARRY T. CHALLAIN, 53, bought a tiny coffee roasting company, Batdorf & Bronson in Olympia, Wash., from its founders in 1990. Today the company sells its products by mail order, online and through retail places like coffeehouses. It employs 90 people in Olympia and at a second roastery plant in Atlanta.
 ''We felt employees were the key to success, so all through the years we made sure raises for the employees came first and to bring them up as we were able to pay more, and then our pay came after that. We do feel it is important to pay everyone properly and that includes ourselves. There's not always a relationship between success and failure at big corporations and what they pay the C.E.O.'' 

JEFFREY JORDAN, 30, used his training as a naval architect to help him design a steerable plastic-runner sled. He formed Reindeer Sleds of Vienna, Va., with two principals, himself and his wife, Cara, and no employees. He has contracted with a manufacturer in Baltimore to make the sleds. Last year, his first, he sold 350. He hopes to sell 2,000 this year, while he works full time as a consultant in the defense industry.
 ''I have worked in big business, at Northrup Grumman. The difference I see is managing growth and longevity. In big business, I see a great distance from the hands-on decision-making that you have in small business. Leaders of big businesses have to show a return on investment. They've got shareholders breathing down their necks for a near-term profit, so it can be harder to see a longer-term side.
 ''Somehow, big business has to feel like a parent trying to raise a child, with the same attention and nurturing, so he grows even after you're gone.
 ''The U.S.A. is a place, in my opinion, for big-business manufacturing. I did have people suggesting I go overseas. My competitors at last year's toy show accosted me, saying I was never going to make it, I needed to go overseas for lower per-unit costs. Well, maybe equally good sleds could be made in China, but I would not be there. 
 ''I have some real needs as a start-up here in the States. I need to be able to build prototypes, handle R. and D., create new products, and I have to have that at my fingertips. So I need a local industrial base. I think big businesses do too.''

ANDY GOLDFINE, 51, is the founder and president of Aerostich, a company in Duluth, Minn., that produces accessories and protective garments for motorcyclists. Mr. Goldfine started the company in 1983 after inheriting some industrial sewing machines. Today he employs 100 people. Gross sales, mainly through the company's RiderWearhouse catalog and online, totaled $6 million last year.
 ''I was raised all my life in a small town in northern Minnesota with liberal, Nordic traditions, and that is hard to reconcile with the tyranny of accountancy and corporate personhood.
 ''Employers want minimal investment per person. It takes a week to learn repetitive factory assembly. But our products are made start to finish by one person. It takes six months to learn. But their lives are better and they are better at self-management. I was in a sewing factory in Asia once that used bells for break time and shifts. When the end-of-afternoon shift bell rang, and it was time for people to leave, instead of walking out normally, socially, some people ran to get out of there. This is animal husbandry.
 ''I began the business not looking for a brass ring outcome or a pot of gold. That would be the consequence, not the goal. I put products on the market the way I wanted and that's slower and more of a pain, but I like the way they are finished.
 ''Motorcycles are a social good, and they create episodic transcendence in people and that makes better people. Ethics and business for me are indivisible. You are what you do. How can it not be?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DETAIL MAN -- Terry Maxwell, founder of Ergonomic Products Inc. (Photo by David Kadlubowksi for The New York Times)
FAST RIDE -- Jeffrey Jordan of Reindeer Sleds, and his son, Noah. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)
BIG FISH -- Ralph Rubio, founder of Rubio's Fresh Mexican Grill. (Photo by Alan Decker for The New York Times)
 COLD WORK -- Pamela Moore, the president of Ice Tubes Inc. (Photo by David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ERGONOMICS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); WOMEN (73%) Small Business; United States Economy

COMPANY: ERGONOMIC PRODUCTS INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%)

PERSON: Brian Alexander

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



426 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; INSURANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Weighing the Risks in a Health Savings Account

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK

 BODY:
A LITTLE-NOTICED provision in the Medicare prescription drug law passed by Congress late last year is starting to shake up the group insurance market for small businesses.
 The provision created health savings accounts that allow people to set aside pretax income to pay medical bills. When linked to high-deductible insurance policies, the accounts, known as H.S.A.'s, can drastically lower an employer's costs of providing employee health benefits. This may allow more small businesses to offer such benefits -- or provide savings for those that already do. 
 Some critics argue that these plans achieve savings by shifting more health expenses to consumers, who must use the money in their savings accounts to pay their deductible amounts. The accounts, however, are tax deductible and can build each year, like individual retirement accounts; when you turn 65 and are eligible for Medicare, any money in the account is yours. The advantage of the high deductibles, proponents say, is that they keep the policies cheap. As a result, companies that offer group plans may pay some or all of the premiums and finance a portion or all of the savings accounts.
 Almost half of small businesses with 50 or fewer employees do not offer health insurance to their workers. Currently, the management consulting firm started last year by Rich Phillips, an entrepreneur in Austin, Tex., falls into that group. But Mr. Phillips said that he planned to add coverage next year for his five employees and their families, using health savings accounts.
 Mr. Phillips has purchased an individual H.S.A.-eligible policy for his family, which costs $380 a month and has an annual deductible of $3,250; a traditional policy would have run $900 to $1,100 monthly. For a single person, an H.S.A.-eligible policy can cost as little as $100 a month or less, compared with $400 or $500 for a traditional plan.
 ''I can't afford to pay $1,000 a month per employee for coverage,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''But I can afford the $300 or $400 that these H.S.A. plans cost. And it's very attractive to employees for me to pay 100 percent of the premiums for them and their families. That's rare these days.''
 ''The scary thing for a lot of people with these policies is the high deductible,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''But I see it as a great way to make me vigilant about my health costs. Plus it gives me peace of mind to know that 100 percent of my family's medical expenses above our annual deductible -- $3,250 a year -- are covered.''
 H.S.A.-eligible health insurance policies became available on Jan. 1. Because there had been a pilot program for individual policies, insurance companies offered them first. Insurers are now beginning to offer policies for the group business market that they expect will get going by early next year. ''We expect to see the bulk of this business kicking out in January 2005,'' said Andy Slavitt, the chief executive for consumer solutions at United Healthcare. 
 Individual and group H.S.A.-eligible plans work much the same way, although group savings plans may be cheaper and cannot usually deny coverage to someone because of pre-existing conditions. The plans must have a deductible of at least $1,000 to be eligible for a companion health savings account. Individuals, or the companies they work for, can make tax-free contributions to an account in any amount up to their insurance plan's deductible, but not more than $2,600 a year; families can put in up to $5,150 a year. Both of these limits are inflation-indexed and will increase. Typically, employers will pay some portion of the premium for the underlying group policy.
 If your insurance policy has a higher deductible than the annual savings limit, the difference is your responsibility. The yearly out-of-pocket maximum, however, is $5,000 for an individual and $10,000 for a family, also inflation-indexed, regardless of your plan.
 ''Ideally, the deductible on your policy would match the maximum on your H.S.A., but there could be a gap if you picked a higher deductible policy,'' said Robert Hurley, the chief operating officer for health savings accounts at eHealthInsurance.com, an online health insurance broker that is pushing H.S.A.-eligible policies. ''But since the account builds year to year, that gap will disappear. I recommend buying a policy with a deductible that matches your H.S.A., then increase the deductible -- and lower your premiums -- as your savings build.''
 In Mr. Phillips's case, he puts about $270 a month into his account, which in a year equals his policy's deductible of $3,250. After a few years, his account will probably contain more than his annual deductible. That account can continue to build, like an I.R.A. If he withdraws any of that money for something other than health care, he must pay taxes on it, plus a 10 percent penalty. At 65, he can withdraw the money without penalty but must pay taxes on it, unless he spends it for health care.
 Although the political fighting over whether to establish health savings accounts is over, the arguments provide a backdrop for the health care debate under way during this presidential election year. Republicans like the accounts as a free-market alternative to government-paid insurance, and President Bush's campaign Web site lists them as one of his major health care achievements.
 Democrats and others have argued that the tax benefits of the plans are more beneficial to higher-income people, that individual policies do not address the problems of people with pre-existing conditions who cannot get coverage and that the high deductibles may lead people to neglect routine care if they have to spend their own money on it. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic nominee, has proposed a variety of subsidies and other measures meant to make it easier for small businesses to provide traditional insurance. 
 For small businesses, the big attraction of these policies remains their price. They not only lower health care costs, but can also stabilize costs.
 Deena Katz, a financial adviser and the president of Evensky, Brown & Katz in Coral Gables, Fla., is switching to an H.S.A.-eligible plan for her 18 employees because her company's insurance premiums have increased 35 percent for each of the last three years.
 Ms. Katz's company covers insurance for employees only, not their families. The premiums for the coverage are currently $500 a month for each employee. Beginning in January, the company will offer health savings account policies and give each employee $300 a month. She estimates that will more than pay an individual's premium and leave some to contribute to the savings account. This $300 will, in effect, be the company's self-imposed cap on health spending. And it will save $200 a month per employee, which comes to $3,600 a month, or $43,200 a year.
 ''That's a huge amount for a small business,'' she said. ''We're not AT&T, so any dollars we can save are important.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); FAMILY (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (51%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicare; Small Business; Fringe Benefits; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Fred Brock

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



427 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words

PERSON: Norman Frank Cantor

HEADLINE: Norman F. Cantor, 74, a Noted Medievalist

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Norman Frank Cantor, a prominent American medievalist whose books, like his classic ''Civilization of the Middle Ages,'' were widely read in the classroom and beyond, died on Saturday at his home in Miami, where he retired four years ago. He was 74 and a former resident of Greenwich Village.
 The cause was heart failure, his family said. 
 Mr. Cantor retired in 1999 as a professor emeritus of history, sociology and comparative literature at New York University, where he had been since 1978. Just before that he was on the faculty of the University of Illinois as vice chancellor for academic affairs.
 Mr. Cantor has won high praise for his fluent, graceful prose style and the narrative drive that made his books unusually readable.
 ''The Civilization of the Middle Ages'' has been in print ever since it was first published in 1963. It most recently came out in 1994 in a revised edition from Harper Trade, with new research focused on contemporary concerns like women's role in society and history.
 ''Inventing the Middle Ages'' (William Morrow, 1991) was a historiography documenting how present views of the period took hold.
 Another recent book in print is ''In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made'' (Free Press, 2002). Its subject was the 14th-century equivalent of nuclear devastation, with a third of Europe's population killed and every aspect of its civilization upended. Mr. Cantor used case studies to illuminate the social, political and economic upheavals that reshaped views on philosophy, religion and the arts and, doing so, pointed the Continent toward its Renaissance.
 He was the editor of the Encyclopedia of the Middle Ages (Viking, 1999) and a companion volume tailored for young readers from Penguin Putnam Books. ''Inventing Norman Cantor: Memoirs of a Medievalist'' was published by the Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies in 2002.
 Mr. Cantor's latest book, published in April, was ''The Last Knight: The Twilight of the Middle Ages and the Birth of the Modern Era'' (Free Press). Just before his death, he finished ''Alexander the Great,'' a concise profile of the conqueror's life and his influence on the ancient world, which HarperCollins has on its schedule for 2005. 
 Norman Cantor was born in Winnipeg, Canada, and graduated from the University of Manitoba in 1951, the year he came to the United States. He received an M.A. degree from Princeton in 1953, spent a year as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford and got his Ph.D. in 1957 at Princeton, where he started his teaching career.
 He was at Columbia from 1960 to 1966, advancing to full professor. He then was Leff professor at Brandeis until 1970; distinguished professor at SUNY at Binghamton, and finally vice president for academic affairs, before moving to the University of Chicago in 1976.
 He joined N.Y.U. in 1978 as dean of faculty of the College of Arts and Science, a post he held until 1981.
 Dr. Cantor is survived by his wife of 47 years, Mindy; a daughter, Judy Cantor of Miami; a son, Howard, of West Glover, Vt.; and a grandson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); CASE STUDIES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); WOMEN (71%) Deaths (Obituaries)

COMPANY: PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (65%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



428 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: City Center Is Offering A Smorgasbord of Dance

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
City Center was where the New York City Ballet was born, in April 1948. When the company moved with the New York City Opera to Lincoln Center some two decades later, the theater's directors saved the underused hall from demolition by designating it a center for dance. That commitment has waned in recent years, but now City Center is returning the favor with a plan to provide new support for dance in hard economic times. 
 The plan maker is Arlene Shuler, a former Joffrey Ballet dancer who arrived as president of City Center in June 2003. How, Ms. Shuler pondered, could the theater be restored as a hub for dance, where major American and foreign companies perform as a matter of course to large and diverse audiences? 
 ''We already had great dance companies performing here, but we also wanted to produce something ourselves,'' Ms. Shuler said. She said she thought nostalgically of the Delacorte Dance Festival in Central Park in the 1960's and 70's, where dizzyingly different companies shared the stage each night for a heady week of free performances that drew in hard-core fans as well as people who had never even thought of attending dance. 
 Out of those memories came the idea of an affordable annual series in which dance of all kinds would be performed. The first Fall for Dance Festival opens next Tuesday for six nights with 30 companies performing, five per program, with tickets priced at $10 for any seat in the house. The $1.1 million cost of the festival was paid in part by the Peter J. Sharp Foundation, Time Warner and the Altria Group. And the gamble has paid off. Just under 6,000 tickets were sold on Sept. 10, the first day of sales. One week later, opening night was sold out and other performances averaged 90 percent. 
 For this series City Center has opened the entire 2,700-seat house, including the rarely used upper balcony. Thus small companies will have a chance to be seen by an audience far larger than in the performance spaces where they normally dance.
 Major troupes will perform, including American Ballet Theater, the companies of Merce Cunningham, Martha Graham and Paul Taylor, and the financially troubled Dance Theater of Harlem, which opens the festival with George Balanchine's ''Agon,'' performed at City Center for the first time in 1957. There will also be break dancing, Indian classical Kathak and Sufi ritual dance, flamenco, tap and trapeze acrobatics. Out of towners include the Boston Ballet and Rennie Harris Puremovement from Philadelphia. Chroniclers of recent modern-dance history will be able to compare the innovations of disparate artists like Trisha Brown, Ronald K. Brown, Bill T. Jones and Eiko and Koma. The appearances are expected to provide extra publicity for the festival companies, many of which will perform in New York at some point through next spring. 
 The lead cast of the first ''Agon'' included Arthur Mitchell, who directs the Harlem troupe. ''Fall for Dance,'' Mr. Mitchell said at the news conference announcing the series, was like coming home. Annie-B Parson, whose evocatively avant-garde Big Dance Theater is a festival participant, grew up watching City Ballet perform ''Agon.'' ''This feels like a legacy,'' Ms. Parson said. ''I'm not suggesting that any of the younger choreographers are inheritors of that incredibly brilliant work. But the fact that we're all in the same program is sort of a stroke of luck for everyone -- audiences and performers. We get to see where we've been and where we're going.'' 
 Another participant, the modern-dance choreographer Susan Marshall, talked delightedly at the press conference of at last being able to afford to see a broad spectrum of work in her field. ''I'm going to buy seats for every night,'' she said. ''I feel like a kid in a candy store. It's hard in dance to have real knowledge of what came before.
 ''Every five or six years there is a new generation of choreographers. Our foundation is continually falling away from us..''
 Ms. Shuler also envisions the festival as offering an unparalleled, affordable education for fledgling dance critics. But paramount in her mind is the building of the dance audience. A survey conducted by Dance USA, a national service organization, found that the percentage of dancegoers 18 to 24 had declined to 8.8 percent from 14.8 percent between 1992 and 2002 and that there was an 8 percent decline in dance attendance over the decade. Ticket sales plummeted after 9/11 and companies and producers report that there has been a dramatic increase in last-minute rather than advance ticket buying since the 2001 attack.
 Canny plotting has gone into luring and keeping the Fall for Dance audiences. The public atrium from West 55th to West 56th Street, to the left of City Center's main entrance, will house a festival lounge with a full bar, light food and D.J.'s from 6:30 to 11 each night for festival attenders and casual passers-by. Ticket holders will get a ''dance link'' card entitling them to discounts of 10 percent and more on tickets to dance performances at City Center and 12 other city theaters, from the Brooklyn Academy of Music and the Joyce Theater to Dance Theater Workshop and Dixon Place. The discount card will also allow City Center to track audiences and venues. 
 Most of all, Fall for Dance is about those outside the curtain. ''One of the primary goals is to bring in younger people to create the next generation of dancegoers and dance lovers,'' Ms. Shuler said. ''For $10, they can afford to give dance a try, and they'll see a great night of entertainment. And it's not just young audiences we want to come but audiences new to dance.'' With five very different companies on each program, Ms. Shuler said, it is likely that there will be something each person can relate to. ''Wouldn't it be great,'' she said, ''to get them all to love dance?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arlene Schuler, head of City Center, devised a Fall for Dance Festival. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); BALLET (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (89%); DANCERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TICKET SALES (74%) Dancing; Fall for Dance Festival (NYC)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: City Center (NYC)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (66%)

PERSON: Arlene Schuler; Jennifer Dunning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



429 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Less Youth Antidepressant Use

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
The number of teenagers and children being prescribed antidepressants in the United States dropped 18 percent over the last year after studies found that the medicines appeared to lead some to become suicidal, according to one provider of drug benefits.
 In a study done at the behest of The New York Times, Medco Health Solutions found that 43,859 of the roughly 3.5 million children and teenagers for whom the company provided drug benefits in July, or 1.26 percent, were prescribed antidepressants that month. That is down from 60,902 children and teenagers, or 1.69 percent of the total, who were prescribed the drugs a year earlier. It was the first decline in prescriptions for antidepressants among teenagers and children in years, the company found. 
 Some experts greeted the news with guarded optimism, saying that it meant that physicians may be using more care when prescribing the drugs to youngsters. 
 ''You would hope that the inappropriate use of these medicines has dried up a bit,'' said Dr. Richard Malone, a pediatrician in Baltimore and a member of the Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee that concluded last week that the agency should place a strong warning on the drugs about the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in pediatric patients.
 The finding by Medco Health Solutions is at odds with information provided last week by the F.D.A. to its advisory committee. An F.D.A. official told the committee that prescriptions of antidepressants for children and teenagers continued to rise by 7 percent this year despite a growing controversy about the safety of the drugs. ''We did not see any decline,'' Michael Evans, a drug use specialist with the F.D.A.'s office of drug safety, told the committee. 
 Mr. Evans told the committee that his information came from IMS Health, a health information and consulting company. Lance Longwell, a spokesman for IMS Health, said that the company provided data to the agency, but that the agency did its own analysis. 
 IMS Health obtained most of its information about drug use by surveying pharmacies, but it did not collect patient information. Mr. Longwell said that he did not know how the agency distinguished between prescriptions given to adults and those given to teenagers and children. A spokesman for the F.D.A. said the agency would not comment.
 Medco provides prescription drug benefits for about 60 million Americans over the course of a year, or about a fourth of those who have health insurance in the United States. The company's finding on antidepressants resulted from a direct analysis of its patients' prescription drug histories, said Ann Smith, a Medco spokeswoman. 
 The Medco data suggest that the controversy about the safety of antidepressants has made an impression on physicians, young patients and their parents. Last summer, GlaxoSmithKline, the manufacturer of Paxil, and Wyeth, the maker of Effexor, both warned that studies of their drugs in youngsters indicated that some had become suicidal. For GlaxoSmithKline, the warning came from an analysis requested by the F.D.A. that looked at studies that the company had kept largely secret. None of the children in the trials committed suicide, but some thought about or attempted suicide, researchers found.
 After these findings, the F.D.A. asked manufacturers of seven other antidepressants to study the effects of their drugs on children and teenagers. Taken together, the studies found that children and teenagers given antidepressants are twice as likely to become suicidal as those given placebos. In February, the F.D.A.'s advisory committee suggested that the agency provide a general warning about the risks of suicide among antidepressants users, which the agency did in March. 
 Last week, the advisory committee voted that the drugs' warnings should be strengthened. The agency is still studying the committee's recommendation and promised to act within months.
 Dr. Lauren Marangell, an associate professor of psychiatry at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and another member of the advisory committee, said at last week's hearing that despite the growing evidence of the risks of the drugs she was not hoping for a decline in antidepressant use among the young.
 ''I don't want to see prescriptions drop because these people need to be treated,'' Dr. Marangell said at the hearing. ''They need to be warned about the risks.''
 In an interview yesterday, Dr. Marangell said it was impossible to tell whether the decline found by Medco was real and, if so, whether it was beneficial. 
 ''It's bad news if kids that need treatment don't get it, and it's good news if people who don't need the drugs aren't getting them,'' Dr. Marangell said. Others said that the Medco data were consistent with their experience. 
 Dr. Malone, the Baltimore pediatrician, said he received two telephone calls from parents of patients he had put on antidepressants asking if it was time to end the therapy.
 ''I have 3,500 children in my practice, and to get two calls on the same issue on the same day is pretty unusual,'' he said.
 Both parents said that they were concerned about the newfound risks of the drugs, Dr. Malone said.
 James McGough, a professor of clinical psychiatry at the University of California, Los Angeles, and another member of the advisory committee, said that antidepressants were often given to the wrong young patients for the wrong reasons. On the other hand, he said he saw a depressed young girl yesterday who needed antidepressant therapy. ''But her parent is so afraid of the medicines that it's getting in the way of what this girl truly needs.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Prescribing Caution''A study by Medco Health Solutions found that the number of teenagers and children receiving prescriptions for antidepressants has declined since studies found that the drugs caused some to become suicidal.Graph tracks the Number of Patients Under 18 on Antidepressant Drugs since 2002. (Source by Medco Health Solutions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDEPRESSANTS (92%); ADOLESCENTS (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); TEEN SUICIDE (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); SUICIDE (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); DRUG SAFETY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (75%); PHARMACIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%) Mental Health and Disorders; Children and Youth; Antidepressants; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Mental Health and Disorders

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%) Medco Health Solutions; Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: Gardiner Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



430 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Be Prepared for Anything From Pyramids to Onions

BYLINE: By Veronica Scheubel; As told to Patricia Olsen.

 BODY:
After a conference in Oaxaca, Mexico, ended four years ago, I visited the ancient ruins and pyramids of the Zapotec culture. It wasn't obvious how steep the pyramid steps were until I started ascending them. On the way down, I passed a French woman who was huffing and puffing as she climbed up. Most people are awed when they come upon this site, which is thousands of years old. I overheard this woman, who was obviously out of shape, say rather petulantly, ''Now honestly, you'd think they could have put an elevator in this pyramid.'' 
 Last February, my husband accompanied me to a soccer tournament in Tunisia that Nokia was sponsoring. One evening we went to the souk, or bazaar, to look at the wares. A young man tapped my husband on the shoulder and said that we probably didn't remember him, but he was the waiter from dinner the previous evening at our hotel, and he would be delighted to show us around the bazaar.
 Since it's an Arab country, the man talked only to my husband. I was walking two steps behind when I overheard them discussing how many camels I might be worth. The young man pointed out the sights and then took us to a factory where they wove rugs and introduced us to his ''cousins'' who owned the place. The men served us tea and showed us some of their rugs. We admired them but said we weren't interested in buying. The men kept bringing out more rugs and piling them in front of us until my husband had to tell them rather strongly that we weren't buying.
 At that point our waiter said he had to get back to work and excused himself. We realized he wasn't our waiter at all, but someone paid to lure unsuspecting tourists from the bazaar to the factory.
 At the end of a 10-day business trip in Thailand a couple of years ago, I started feeling sick on the way to the airport for the flight home, and by the time I boarded I was very ill. I spent the entire 11-hour flight lying on the floor by the emergency exit. The flight attendants gave me a blanket and pillow and kept bringing me air sickness bags. One attendant commiserated by saying, ''We've all had it happen.''
 You meet all kinds in airplanes. Like the seatmate I had on a flight from Paris to New York who was a dead ringer for Woody Allen and who ate onions throughout the trip as though they were apples. His breath prohibited extended conversation.
 Or like the woman in her 30's on a flight I was on from Frankfurt to the United States in March who fled economy class to business class because she didn't want to sit next to a dark-skinned man with a winter scarf tied around his head like a turban. When the flight attendant ordered her back to her seat, she burst into tears and begged to be allowed to stay where she was because she was afraid the man might belong to Osama bin Laden's group. The flight attendant asked if anyone else would volunteer to switch seats with her but got no takers, and so sent her back to her fate.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Veronica Scheubel -- Senior manager of community relations, Nokia (Photo by Soile Kallio/Lehtikuva, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (78%); AIRPORTS (65%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (64%); AIRLINES (60%); SOCCER (55%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (55%) Airlines and Airplanes; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Nokia

PERSON: Veronica Scheubel; Patricia Olsen

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TUNISIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



431 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief Sees Potential Hazard in U.S. Fiscal Policies

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Rodrigo de Rato, said yesterday that the dollar would have to fall and the United States would have to tackle its growing indebtedness to avoid a threat to the world economy some time in the future. 
 In an address at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, Mr. de Rato did not spare rich or poor nations in his diagnosis of the world economy and said it was a good time for all countries to begin cutting their deficits and making needed changes.
 He noted that with the United States' deficit remaining well over 4 percent of its gross domestic product for years to come, ''some correction in the value of currencies will make sense from the point of view of fundamentals.'' 
 ''We believe such a large imbalance is a risk not only for the United States economy, but for the world economy,'' he said. 
 Fortunately, with the global economy in a growth spurt, developing nations can put in place needed changes and wealthy nations can begin to balance their books, he said. The United States should begin cutting its budget deficit, projected at $420 billion this year, as well as its current account deficit, which hit a record $166.2 billion in the last quarter. 
 Taken together, economists warn, these deficits could set off a sudden fall in the dollar and reverse the global recovery, though others disagree, saying that the two factors will instead quietly erode American dominance of the world economy.
 The United States was not the only wealthy country to be singled out for the threat it posed to the global economy. 
 In his speech made in advance of next week's annual meeting of the I.M.F. and the World Bank, Mr. de Rato said that Europe and Japan also shared some of the responsibility for the United States' deficit because of their failure to expand their sluggish economies fast enough. 
 He said that ''the lack of growth in Europe means greater pressure on the U.S. domestic market'' to bear the burden for the recovery and that although Japan's economy was now much better than in the last decade it still '' has to play its role.''
 Many economists, however, cite the overvaluation of the dollar in international currency markets, especially in relation to China and Japan, as a reason for the growing United States deficit. 
 Mr. de Rato said yesterday that he had told the Chinese government that it should move to a more flexible exchange rate ''right now.''
 Answering critics who have charged that the I.M.F. has abandoned its role of monitoring global exchange rates, Mr. de Rato said it was noteworthy that his first visit after being named managing director this year was to Asia, specifically to Japan and China. 
 American manufacturers and labor unions recently petitioned the Bush administration to sue China at the World Trade Organization for keeping the value of its currency fixed against the dollar. 
 They said they had asked for this unorthodox remedy because they had lost faith that the I.M.F., which normally handles international disputes on currency, would ever persuade China to increase the value of its currency.
 The administration denied the petition.
 In the view of many economists, a Chinese move toward a more flexible exchange rate would increase the value of the Chinese currency against the dollar and relieve some of the pressure on the United States trade deficit.
 Mr. de Rato, the former Spanish finance minister who is credited with the expansion of that economy, said that developing countries needed to improve their domestic policies and practice good governance if they were to benefit from programs to relieve their indebtedness.
 He also said, however, that forgiving the debts of these poor nations was not enough; that wealthy countries needed to increase foreign aid and open their markets to greater trade if developing nations were to sustain their growth. 
 Mr. de Rato promised to speak up about problems before they wreak havoc in the world economy. 
 ''We need to identify imbalances and vulnerabilities to allow for corrections before they can create harm,'' Mr. de Rato said. ''And, we need to communicate our positions clearer, both to policy makers and to markets, and reinforce incentives for countries to undertake pre-emptive corrective actions.''
 At the same time, Mr. de Rato acknowledged that his influence over these economic powerhouses was largely through markets and public opinion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodrigo de Rato, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, addressed the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday. (Photo by Naashon Zalk/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EURO (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Monetary Fund; Council on Foreign Relations; European Union

PERSON: Rodrigo e Rato; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) United States; Europe; Japan; China; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



432 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Haitians Scramble to Escape Deadly Floodwaters
More than 550 people died in Haiti over the weekend from flooding and mudslides set off by Tropical Storm Jeanne, according to aid workers, who said half of the northern city of Gonaives was still under water yesterday. PAGE A8

Presidential Debates Are Set
The major parties have agreed on the rules, dates and locations for three presidential debates, with the first scheduled for Sept. 30 in Coral Gables, Fla. If the face-offs resemble those of the past, their impact may well go beyond a simple judgment of who won and who lost. PAGE A25

Understanding Prozac
Prozac is the only drug approved by the F.D.A. for treating depression in children and adolescents. But researchers cannot agree on how different it is from other drugs in its class. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1

New Indonesian President
A former general who has promised to uphold civilian rule appears to have easily defeated President Megawati Sukarnoputri in Indonesia's presidential election, a sampling of votes indicates. PAGE A6

Museum With Native Spirit
Members of more than 500 Indian tribes from all over the American hemisphere are expected to gather on the Mall in Washington for a ceremonial march celebrating the opening of a new museum with a Native American point of view. A review by Edward Rothstein. PAGE E1

SPECIAL TODAY

Small Business
Both presidential candidates speak reverently of the nation's small companies as the prime source of jobs. But economists say that many of those jobs usually come from only a small, fast-growing slice of the sector and right now, those companies are showing an unusual caution about hiring. SECTION G


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ariana Cubillos/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); DEPRESSION (69%); APPROVALS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); LANDSLIDES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) HAITI (94%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



433 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Ex-General Appears to Win By Big Margin in Indonesia

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
A former general who has promised to uphold civilian rule appears to have easily defeated President Megawati Sukarnoputri in Indonesia's presidential election on Monday, a nationwide sampling of votes indicates.
 Gen. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is expected to win 61 percent of the vote, compared with 39 percent for Mrs. Megawati in the runoff election, according to the survey by the Washington-based National Democratic Institute. 
 ''There could be a shift of a couple of percentage points, but the count is pretty stable,'' said Paul Rowland, the executive director of the institute here in Indonesia. The survey, called a quick count, is based on votes cast at 2,000 polling places throughout the nation. 
 General Yudhoyono, 55, would become Indonesia's sixth president since independence in 1945, and the fourth since the fall of the authoritarian leader Gen. Suharto in 1998. 
 The Monday voting, which proceeded in a well organized and peaceful manner, was the final round in the first direct balloting for president in Indonesia.
 The results indicate that Indonesians are yearning for change after three years of lackluster leadership from Mrs. Megawati, who presided over an anemic economy and during whose term a homegrown radical Islamic group carried out three terror attacks. 
 General Yudhoyono presented himself as a man of competence who could set things right, though he gave few details of precisely what he would do. He pledged to continue the civilian rule that was established after General Suharto's ouster, and was viewed as more of a reformer than Mrs. Megawati, who largely practiced status quo politics. 
 The Bush administration -- particularly Assistant Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, who was ambassador to Indonesia in the late 1980's -- has said the success of elections here in the world's most populous Muslim country shows that Islam and democracy are compatible.
 During the Suharto era, General Yudhoyono was sent to the United States twice for military training, and American officials said they hoped that lessons he had learned there would infuse his administration.
 The United States did not publicly express its preference in the election, but Washington officials made it clear that they believed that the general had a better grasp of how to control Jemaah Islamiyah, the radical Islamic group held responsible for the three terror attacks.
 During the campaign, General Yudhoyono suggested that he would curb rampant corruption, create jobs and improve security. But his precise plans remain unclear. Those who know him describe him as cautious. ''He's a cautious reformer,'' said Harold Crouch, an Australian expert on the Indonesian military. 
 An estimated 150 million Indonesians were registered to vote. Thousands of domestic and foreign observers watched the voting, from Aceh in the northwest to Papua in the east.
 They reported few disruptions, though General Yudhoyono's camp said it would be especially watchful for possible fraud as the ballot boxes were moved from the polling places to collection points at subdistricts. 
 But as counting proceeded late Monday night, General Yudhoyono said: ''It is time for reconciliation. I acknowledged during this competition that there is distance between the supporters of Megawati and myself. I expect we have to be more united in the near future to face a national challenge of building a better Indonesia.''
 Here in Jakarta, much of the voting was completed by 11 a.m. Polls closed at 1 p.m., and less than an hour later the results were known at some polling places. 
 At one voting place in Kebonkacang, a working-class area in the city center, General Yudhoyono received 137 votes and Mrs. Megawati 39. 
 Those who voted for Ms. Megawati seemed conciliatory. ''I hope S.B.Y. will fulfill his promise to the people,'' said Ceisar Saragih, 27, referring to the former general by his initials, as many people here do. ''I hope he does not pressure people with his military stick.'' 
 Another Megawati voter, Joni Tampubolon, 53, said he worried that General Yudhoyono might bring back military rule. ''We're still learning democracy,'' he said. ''As long as he continues democracy and is not like Suharto, it's O.K.'' 
 The Indonesian Election Commission trained hundreds of thousands of election workers to staff the polling places, and the political campaigns trained observers to watch out for their interests as voting got under way. 
 For many of the election day workers, helping to give voters the ballots and ticking off names on the register proved a rewarding way to promote the new democracy. 
 ''I have to be involved,'' said Rudi Halim, 25, who usually works with his father at the family store but this morning was wearing the bright orange vest of an election worker. ''It's an obligation of being a citizen.'' 
 General Yudhoyono won a first round of the election on July 5. But he failed to win the more than 50 percent required for a first-round victory against Mrs. Megawati and three other candidates. His strong showing in the runoff will probably lead to a change in Indonesian politics.
 The general's political rise was swift. He was the security minister in Mrs. Megawati's cabinet, and left only in March. His entrance into the presidential race was predicated on the sense that he did not need a major political party to support him. 
 He was backed only by a small new party, the Democratic Party, and his gamble worked.
 One outcome of his victory is likely to be a housecleaning of Golkar, the party that Suharto created in the 1960's and developed into the political machine that kept him in power.
 The leader of Golkar, Akbar Tanjung, decided to back Mrs. Megawati against the wishes of his rank and file. Golkar handily won parliamentary elections in April, though, and General Yudhoyono will have to work with the party to get his programs through the legislature. 
 In a Golkar stronghold in the southern area of the province of Sulawesi, the party fared exceptionally badly. Instead of choosing Golkar, voters overwhelmingly voted for General Yudhoyono and his running mate, Jusuf Kalla, who comes from that region.
 An election observer, Smita Notosusanto, who is also the executive director of the Center for Electoral Reform, said that in some voting places in southern Sulawesi 98 percent of the vote had gone to the Yudhoyono-Kalla ticket.
 ''It shows that Golkar is factionalized, divided and no longer the machine that matters,'' Ms. Notosusanto said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the presidential election in Indonesia misstated the current position of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the Bush administration official who was ambassador there in the late 1980's and has said that the voting, in the world's most populous Muslim country, shows that Islam and democracy are compatible. He is deputy defense secretary, not assistant secretary. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, flanked by his wife, Kristiani, and his running mate, Jusuf Kalla, spoke at a news conference as he was projected to win a big victory in Indonesia's first direct presidential election. (Photo by Dimas Ardian/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); TRENDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); JOB CREATION (61%); MILITARY TRAINING (61%); CORRUPTION (60%) Elections; Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Bombs and Explosives; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (59%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (57%) Jemaah Islamiyah (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (91%) Jane Perlez; Megawati Sukarnoputri (Pres); Susilo Bambang (Min) Yudhoyono

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Indonesia; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



434 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Small Business; OPPORTUNITIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Chance by Looking for Trouble

BYLINE: By KAREN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
MAKE trouble your ally. That's the advice experts have for would-be entrepreneurs. Turmoil -- economic or social -- creates opportunity, even as it pushes managers and other employees out of their corporate niches.
 From such upheaval come new demands for services -- from overloaded working people, from bricks-and-mortar companies grappling with the information age.
 Banks merge, putting midlevel executives out of work; some of them are starting small, community-based banks. Baby boomers are striving to deal with their parents' needs; small businesses are springing up to provide older Americans with companions and to plan their care. 
 And then there's dirt.
 Consider the Molly Maid cleaning company, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., which has 311 franchises in the United States.
 As families take on multiple jobs to make ends meet, they need help at home. ''The industry is really in its infancy right now,'' said Perry D. Phillips Jr., the founder of the Association of Residential Cleaning Professionals, a year-old trade association in Meridian, Miss. The home cleaning business generates $20 billion in annual sales, according to industry analysts, and demand is expected to rise 7 percent a year for the next two years. Owning a low-tech, labor-intensive cleaning franchise may not evoke the glamour of 90's-era dot-com entrepreneurialism. But with a relatively low cost of entry -- about $100,000 -- it might be just the place to stake a claim in the evolving service economy.
 The typical new franchisee is someone who got ''caught in some downsizing wave'' and is looking for independence, said Robert Goggins, the director of franchise development for Molly Maid, a subsidiary of Service Brands International. ''I've never sold a franchise to anybody that was in the cleaning business before.''
 The company requires franchisees to have $30,000 in liquid funds and a net worth of $250,000, Mr. Goggins said. Molly Maid franchisees can expect to earn profits of about 18 percent of their revenue, owners said, with top owners doing more than $1 million a year in sales.
 George Solomon, a deputy associate administrator at the Small Business Administration, pointed to two basic trends opening up such opportunities. ''The secret of going into business in the next 10 years will be finding ventures that either provide customers with information or save them time,'' he said. 
 He offered a prime example of a business that does both, in an arena that has undergone extreme consolidation and a crisis of confidence.
 ''The financial planner is going to be the insurance agent of the 21st century,'' said Mr. Solomon, who is also an associate professor of small business and entrepreneurship at George Washington University. He sees a growing demand for businesses that ''talk total financial packages, including life insurance, retirement plans and estate planning.''
 Delia Fernandez, 52, became a financial adviser in Los Alamitos, Calif., 10 years ago after losing her public relations job. ''When in doubt, retool,'' Ms. Fernandez said. She already held an M.B.A., and had previously worked at a credit-reporting bureau, where she had realized that she had a passion for talking with people about their money.
 So she went back to school and earned a certificate in personal financial planning in 14 months, which she estimated cost her about $5,000 in addition to the cost of software and subscriptions to financial services.
 Ms. Fernandez provides individual planning and asset management, and said her clients were largely middle-class ''people who still work for a living.'' She charges $200 an hour for face-to-face time, and earns about 1 percent annually from the accounts she manages. She now manages about $15 million. 
 ''You have to assume you're going to have to feed yourself for three to five years,'' she said. ''And it will take maybe five to seven years before you are going to start making money, start feeling comfortable.''
 A growing cadre of laid-off bankers have taken entrepreneurship a step further: starting community banks, particularly in smaller towns in the South and the Midwest.
 ''There's always a place for a local well-run community bank,'' said Bruce Plummer, a former consultant for start-up banks who went on to help start one himself. Mr. Plummer, now vice president of marketing and business development for MidSouth Bank in Murfreesboro, Tenn., said community banks were nimble and personal and strike a chord with homeowners and small-business owners.
 The bank, which opened in January in a former church, raised $30 million in start-up capital from individual investors who paid $10 a share. In its first 100 days its assets reached $50 million, according to Mr. Plummer.
 Just as the financial landscape is changing, so are the technological opportunities. While the dot-com bubble may have burst, there are intriguing developments in what, again, may seem like less glamorous fields. 
 ''There is a lot of focus on how to do things creatively in supply-chain logistics and transportation,'' said John A. Challenger, the chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., an outplacement company in Chicago.
 ''Companies are fighting to move more and more of their material out of the warehouse,'' Mr. Challenger said. ''Their real warehouse is the truckloads of goods that are out on the roads.''
 Some of those trucks belong to Spartan Warehousing Inc. of Columbus, Ohio, which has transformed itself into a full-service logistics company, said Steve Harmon, the chief financial officer.
 Companies are increasingly eager to find others to do the distribution work they used to do for themselves, said Mr. Harmon, whose father, Ed, founded the business in 1988. Today, Spartan Warehousing has $15 million in annual revenue, employs about 130 people and has about 2 million square feet of warehouse space in Ohio and Indiana.
 ''Everything that's imported gets shipped into the U.S. one way and delivered to the buyer a different way,'' Mr. Harmon said.
 Farming out distribution work helps companies that are conservative about putting people on their payroll and investing in mortar and brick, Mr. Harmon said. This is especially true, he added, ''if they know their demands are seasonal, or if they know they can't build a warehouse, or don't want the liability for the property on their balance sheets.''
 What has been driving the logistics business for the last five years is technology, Mr. Harmon said. ''Without it you can't provide value-added service in this industry. Everybody wants to be bar-coded.''
 He added that clients also wanted global positioning systems on the trucks and predicted that the industry would soon be moving toward radio frequency identification, using electronic chips that can both identify and track single items.
 Other kinds of long-distance support -- for aging parents, for example -- demand the ultimate in hands-on care. Structural changes in the economy mean that people ''don't have time or don't live in the same city as their aging parents,'' said Steven Aldrich, a manager who tracks small-business trends for Intuit, a software company in Mountain View, Calif., that markets accounting and managerial software for small business.
 As a result, Mr. Aldrich said, the business of ''companionship'' for elderly people is booming, whether that means round-the-clock home health aides or just helping an elderly person run errands or get to doctors.
 The Department of Labor projects the number of home health aides will increase to 859,000 in 2012 from 580,000 in 2002. 
 Rona Bartelstone, a licensed social worker, was a pioneer when she founded her elder care management company 21 years ago in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. In addition to providing private in-home health care assistance, she was one of the first to offer private geriatric care management, which includes assessing the needs of the older client and family, making recommendations for care and being an advocate for the client in the health care system. 
 Today, her company, Rona Bartelstone Associates, has 160 employees and earns more than $4 million in annual revenue. For the vast majority of her clients, their support system is over a long distance.
 ''They hire us because they can't come back every time there's a crisis,'' Ms. Bartelstone said.
 There are also dozens of Web sites like ElderLifePlanning.com, where professionals offer advice on topics like legal issues, finding appropriate nursing care and financing the costs of caring for aging family members. 
 Baby boomers have their own approach to health care, which is opening up new opportunities. At a time of soaring medical costs, a recent study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that 36 percent of adults in the United States had used some form of alternative medicine in the past year. 
 Emily Montes, 29, is hoping that trend will produce a successful acupuncture practice in Southern California. Ms. Montes, a massage therapist at a day spa in Santa Monica, Calif., for the last four years, recently took her state board exams in acupuncture.
 The acupuncture and Oriental medicine business is growing ''exponentially,'' said Debra Persinger, chief executive of the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine, in Alexandria, Va., which administers proficiency exams. 
 Ms. Montes estimates that her education cost about $30,000. She expects the investment to pay off because ''you can feasibly work eight hours a day as an acupuncturist and see three patients in an hour.'' Ms. Montes expects to charge $80 per treatment. 
 Of course, once a would-be small-business owner finds a vein of opportunity, the real work has just begun. Charita Bullard, 47, says she is putting in about 60 hours a week operating the Molly Maid franchise she owns in Tallahassee, Fla. Ms. Bullard is currently adding her fourth two-person cleaning team and spends roughly $4,000 a month in advertising because her franchise is in a region without previous exposure to the Molly Maid name. 
 ''The easiest part for us was getting customers,'' Ms. Bullard said. ''The hardest part for us was finding employees who wanted to be committed to quality.'' 
 ''We've grown rapidly,'' Ms. Bullard added. ''I want to maintain the quality as I grow so I don't implode in 10 months.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CHANGES -- Delia Fernandez, who is now a financial adviser, sees a client at her office in Los Alamitos, Calif. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)
FRESH START -- Bruce Plummer, a banking consultant, founded a small bank in a church in Murfreesboro, Tenn., and Emily Montes, right, a massage therapist in Santa Monica, Calif., will open an acupuncture practice. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
(Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. G10)
 CLEANING UP -- Charita Bullard owns a fast-growing Molly Maid franchise in Tallahassee, Fla. (Photo by Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); FRANCHISING (89%); FRANCHISEES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FRANCHISORS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); INSURANCE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BABY BOOMERS (56%) Small Business

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%) Small Business Administration

PERSON: Karen Alexander; George Solomon

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); MERIDIAN, MS, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



435 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: KB Home Earnings Up

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
KB Home, a builder of new homes, said yesterday that its third-quarter net income rose 20 percent, driven by a greater number of homes sold and higher margins. 
 KB said net income rose to $117.9 million, or $2.84 a share, from $97.8 million, or $2.33 a share, a year earlier. 
Revenue in the period, which ended Aug. 31 and was the third quarter of KB's fiscal year, increased 21 percent, to $1.75 billion from $1.44 billion, short of the $1.85 billion that six analysts had predicted. Sales of new homes rose 24 percent, to $1.72 billion from $1.39 billion. 
 Analysts on average had expected the company to post earnings of $2.73 a share.
 KB Home builds chiefly moderately priced homes in the Western, Southwestern, Southeastern and Great Lakes regions of the United States.
 Net new orders during the quarter increased 23 percent, to 8,982 from 7,319. These orders are not part of the quarterly revenue figures because builders do not record home sales as revenue until closing. 
 KB said it ended the quarter with a backlog of 21,928 homes on order and awaiting construction, up 32 percent over last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Kb Home (Co)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



436 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; PROTECTION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: If Failure Is Normal, How Do Workers Fare?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
MATTHEW GERSHNER, a salesman from Manhattan, remembers gauging the declining fortunes of a past employer by the location of its annual sales meeting. ''One year it was held in Atlantic City at a nice hotel,'' he said. ''The following year it was at a lodge in the Catskills, and the year after that, conference calls.''
 There were other signs that the small technology company, where he worked for four years, was in trouble. Managers suspended matching contributions to the 401(k) plan, he said, and they were reluctant to replace outdated equipment. 
 ''They didn't tell us much, but we knew things were tenuous,'' said Mr. Gershner, 31, who was one of 180 employees out of work after the company shut down in 2002.
 Even so, Mr. Gershner says he prefers working at small companies, like the language-translation services business where he is now employed. ''At the end of the day, I feel like I've added to the bottom line in a very measurable, substantive way,'' he said.
 But while there are many attractions to working at a small company, job security is not necessarily among them. Only about half of new companies survive at least four years, according to the Small Business Administration. Last year, 584,800 businesses closed shop, compared with 572,900 that started up, it said.
 ''Small businesses are more vulnerable,'' especially to economic changes, said John A. Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement company in Chicago. ''Bigger businesses usually have built in, through a broader product mix, an insulation that small businesses just don't have.''
 And if the bottom drops out, workers for defunct small businesses may find themselves with unpaid wages and fewer protections than workers for big failed companies. 
 So how can people in small companies protect themselves?
 The overriding advice from employment experts is to be cognizant of any problems brewing and to take appropriate action before things go awry. ''In a small business, you can really see up front what's going on in a way that larger businesses can disguise,'' Mr. Challenger said. ''You may overhear a telephone conversation or see the anxiety in the owners' faces.'' 
 Often there is not much you can do. ''You can sue if you're owed money, but if they closed up shop, you don't know how far you'd get,'' said Amy DelPo, an employment lawyer in San Francisco and co-author of ''Everyday Employment Law: The Basics.'' Employment contracts won't help, either, experts say. 
 Then there are problems that can arise whether the business stays afloat or not. Ms. DelPo said that in some cases, small-business employees might not even be covered under certain federal employment laws, especially if a company has only a few employees. The Family and Medical Leave Act, for example, kicks in only if a company has more than 50 employees; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act applies to employers with 20 or more employees. But she and others suggest that workers find out if laws in their states provide protections. 
 One source is Workplace Fairness, a nonprofit organization affiliated with the National Employment Lawyers Association. Its Web site, workplacefairness.org, provides information on workers' rights, including state laws. The association, at nela.org, has information on labor issues and a database of lawyers. 
 People who work in the so-called underground economy are especially vulnerable. ''A lot of people in this country get paid under the table,'' Ms. DelPo said. ''They don't think it's a big deal, but what happens if they get injured or laid off? They're often not entitled to unemployment or workers' compensation because they haven't been paying into the system.'' 
 The warning signs that a company is in trouble will vary. They may be subtle, like workers making do with older equipment, as was the case with Mr. Gershner, or more blatant, with layoffs announced.
 Jonathan Oleinick, 32, of Miami, recalls being told by the small media company where he was employed to cut back on business lunches and, eventually, professional conferences. By the time the company had laid off about 20 percent of its work force, Mr. Oleinick was out the door. He now runs a small energy company developing solar panels. 
 Mr. Oleinick seems to have known when to get out. But why guess? ''Approach your boss -- try to ask at the highest level -- about what's really going on,'' said Robert S. Levin, editor of The New York Enterprise Report, a publication about small businesses. ''You might want to ask what are the cash-flow projections; most companies have difficulties with cash flow, not profitability.'' 
 The next step, he said, should be to ask how you can help. ''Is the ship sunk or is it just a difficult period that can be fixed?'' Either way, Mr. Levin says, you should start conserving cash, and seek out other job opportunities through networking.
 Arnold H. Pedowitz, an employment lawyer in Manhattan, agrees, but also cautioned against disclosing too much information about a company's financial status to outsiders, especially those in the same industry. ''There's a duty of loyalty that you act in the best interest of your current employer,'' he said, adding that employees who breach that ''duty'' can face legal problems. 
 But knowing where to draw the line is important. ''It's perhaps the biggest peril of working for a small business,'' Mr. Pedowitz said. ''You become involved in feeling loyal to a company, and as it's going downhill, you sacrifice what's owed to you.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ingo Fast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); BACK PAY (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (68%) Labor; Small Business

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



437 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; VOICES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Portraits From North Main Street, the Heart of a Town

BYLINE: By JO NAPOLITANO

DATELINE: ALTAMONT, Ill. 

 BODY:
THE shorthand term for small business in economic debates is Main Street, and the sector has long been mythologized as the all-American heart of small towns and cities across the country. And, in fact, North Main Street here is the home primarily of small storefront shops and companies. 
 The streets are quiet and business is often less than booming in this city of about 2,200 in central Illinois, but the small-business owners are determined to persevere. They patronize one another's businesses, turn their collective nose up at the big-box retailers that have set up just outside city limits and although the future may be uncertain, one thing is sure: they won't go quietly. So they busy themselves with plans of expansion, smile at their customers to win some loyalty and hope for the best. JO NAPOLITANO

1. GERALD WHITE Jr.
S&W Supermarket
23 North Main Street
 Mr. White, secretary-treasurer of S&W Supermarket, says the company struggles every day to overcome the low prices offered by the handful of big stores that surround Altamont. So far, his attention to customer service seems to be working. The supermarket, which has been in business since 1978, moved to this location three years ago and nearly doubled in size to 8,500 square feet. 
The store has approximately 35 employees; about 15 are full time.
 The S&W, known locally for its high-quality meats, is determined to hold on to its niche; knowing that though its prices may be similar and in some cases slightly higher than in the Wal-Marts and Kmarts that surround them, it stresses service. The store, in addition to carrying out the grocery bags of all of its customers, also delivers free to their homes. Shoppers over 60 get 10 percent off on Tuesdays.
 ''We have competition on all sides of us,'' Mr. White said. ''We have a huge debt load because of our expansion a couple of years ago. But the wolf hasn't gotten in the door yet. Our bank is very pleased with us.'' 

2. DANIEL A. LUTZ
State Farm Agent
9 North Main Street
 Mr. Lutz, 58, has been a State Farm agent for 28 years and currently serves more than 600 households. He has one employee, his secretary, Brenda Hofmann. 
 ''When I started, I had a rate book, pen and calculator,'' he said. ''Now you hit a button, the application goes down to Bloomington, and it's all done a lot faster and with fewer people.'' 
Mr. Lutz, a former teacher and high school principal, left education decades ago for what he says was a more tranquil professional life.
Business has been good, he said. He has insured some of the same customers for decades, watching their needs change as they grow older. The same children that walked by his storefront when he first started are now having children of their own, and Mr. Lutz is writing insurance policies for some of them.

3. WILEY GALLOWAY
Galloway's Barbershop
5 North Main Street
 Mr. Galloway, 90, has been cutting hair since the Calvin Coolidge administration. He started trimming his siblings' hair when he was 10 and eventually offered free haircuts to all the children in his neighborhood. 
Mr. Galloway, the lone barber in the shop, revels in the time he spends with customers, sharing jokes and occasionally playing his violin in impromptu solo concerts inside his storefront business. A self-taught musician who gently taps his right foot to keep time, he is well known and beloved.
The shop invokes an older era with wooden clocks, yellowing newspaper clippings and Norman Rockwell prints nearly covering its walls. As part of the ambience, an old advertisement reads, Shave & Haircut, 2 bits. Mr. Galloway charges slightly more: $6 a cut and $2 for a shave. He serves roughly six to eight customers each day and takes just three days off each month.
Mr. Galloway, an active and jovial man who has outlived many of his clients, is also a favorite among locals for the many stories he tells. The shop will most likely close when Mr. Galloway calls it a day.
''I think my legs will tell me when to quit,'' he said.

4. CONNIE SEIDEL
Piece-Able Kingdom Antiques
3 North Main Street
 Ms. Seidel opened her store on Sept. 28, 2002. An avid collector who went antiquing with her parents as a child, she had long dreamed of opening a shop of her own, a place where she could sell some of the many items she had collected throughout her adulthood. 
Ms. Seidel, whose 25-year-old daughter, Faye, helped set up the store in a grocery that had closed, said she has almost doubled her original space and sells the wares of about 10 vendors who rent space inside the store.
 Ms. Seidel has just two employees, a store manager, Lynn Nieman, and a part-time sales assistant, Dorothy Bush. Business, she said, is good, in that she has no debt. 
''Right now, we are even,'' Ms. Seidel said. ''I have not had to borrow any money, but I'm not seeing a big profit. I haven't had to put anything on credit. Everything is bought and paid for month to month.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEIGHBORS -- From left: Gerald White Jr., at the S&W Supermarket
Daniel A. Lutz in his State Farm office
Wiley Galloway cutting hair
 and Connie Seidel in her antiques store. (Photographs by Carlos T. Miranda for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (65%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%) Small Business

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: Jo Napolitano

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Altamont (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



438 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: United to Offer a Premium Service on Some Transcontinental Flights

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Not much makes sense these days in an industry that has lost more than $20 billion while cutting prices sharply as demand increases. So let's not automatically scoff at this bright idea from United, a bankrupt airline that is ready to start up a fancy new transcontinental service to lure high-paying premium business fliers who will pay top dollar for flat-bed seats and other frills.
 This move comes amid fierce price competition on transcontinental routes. Yesterday, for example, I flew on Continental from Newark to Seattle. My round-trip coach ticket was $296.70, and it wasn't a promotional fare, just one booked routinely online. Plus, because I fly enough miles on Continental each year to maintain Platinum Elite status, I was upgraded to first class each way. So we're talking about a round-trip fare to Seattle, in first class, of under $300. 
 Surely, then, United has to be kidding when it says it expects to make money selling new premium-class service between New York and Los Angeles and New York and San Francisco, with round-trip fares of $2,800 in first class, $1,500 to $1,800 in business class and $200 to $1,000 in what it calls ''economy plus.''
 It's an idea that's going to fly, says Martin C. White, United's senior vice president for marketing. Despite the proliferation of cheap fares to the West Coast, there is, he insists, a viable premium market on the most-prized transcontinental routes out of Kennedy Airport. Right now, American Airlines has half of that premium market (the first and business-class fares), and United has 37 percent. So starting next month, United, a unit of UAL, is introducing new service -- ''p.s.'' (for premium service) -- on those routes. The 767-200 United aircraft currently flying those routes will be replaced by newly configured 757's.
 ''The idea on these routes is to not fight on a share basis, but on a product basis,'' Mr. White said. This means appealing to what he said was a significant niche of well-heeled business travelers, the core of them flying out of Kennedy Airport and Los Angeles International, who are willing to pay more for a certain level of premium service they cannot currently get on domestic flights, he said.
 On those routes, ''when you look at where the money is made, more than half of the revenue in those segments come from first and business class,'' he said.
 Essentially, the idea at United is to sell the front of the plane at full fare and fill in the back with yield-managed fares that are still higher than the going rate on discount airlines. And the only way to do that, United believes, is to fly airplanes that offer that kind of premium service business travelers have become accustomed to on international flights, including flat-bed seats in first class and meal service that he says will be up to international airlines' standards.
 This idea, coming from an airline that has been in bankruptcy since December 2002 and that is reportedly considering a further work force reduction of 6,000 employees, has generated some derision, especially from analysts who insist that domestic air travel has become little more than a commodity. But Joe Brancatelli, who is not shy about ridiculing the business tactics of the major carriers on his popular business-travel Web site, Joesentme.com, was willing to concede that United's argument about the transcontinental premium niche made some sense. On paper.
 ''In transcon, this is basically a good idea,'' he said. ''Who can argue with lie-flat beds in first class, a much upgraded business class, and 34 inches of seat pitch in every coach chair? 
 ''But for United business travelers, this also introduces problems. One, it's another bizarre configuration in an airline that's all over the map. When you book United now, what in the world are you booking? Ted? Old-line United? United Premium Service? Regional jets flying 1,500-mile trips? And it adds even more confusion and complexity to the fare structure.'' 
 And so far, the marketing of p.s. to United's frequent fliers has been muddled, leaving potential passengers confused about when the new service will actually be available. ''United is already behind the eight ball on this,'' he said. ''It's really going to be the end of February before they get this all lined up, and in the meantime the logistics can eat them alive.''
 Not so, Mr. White says. United is reconfiguring 13 of its 757's for the routes. The first flight is scheduled for Oct. 17 from Kennedy to Los Angeles, and all six aircraft designated for those daily routes should be converted by mid-December, Mr. White said. The six planes for the San Francisco routes will start flying in January, with the entire fleet converted by late February, he said. (One 757 will be held in reserve.)
 The 757's flying p.s. service will offer 12 flat-bed seats in first class, 26 seats with 54 inches of pitch in business class, and 72 seats in economy class. That's 110 seats. The 767's currently flying those routes have 182 seats, he said.
 ''The fares stay the same'' as they are now, he said. Those are published fares, roughly the same as American's. But right now, in the first and business cabins on those routes, both airlines have a lot of frequent-flier passengers who have been upgraded -- that is, flying in the expensive seats on a cheap ticket. United's new p.s. service, Mr. White said, is intended to entice more travelers, including those from American Airlines, a unit of AMR, to pay full fare. ''With a better product we feel we can sell more of those seats, which means we'd need to upgrade fewer.''
 Upgrade fewer? I'll bet that just got the rapt attention of a lot of United frequent fliers on the transcontinental trail.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Ual Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



439 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; AGRICULTURE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Sell in Bulk, Lose Farm. Sell Locally, and Watch Revenues Grow.

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER. 
Keith Schneider, a former New York Times reporter, is deputy director of the Michigan Land Use Institute.

DATELINE: KALKASKA, Mich. 

 BODY:
ONE of the truly good-news stories in American agriculture, and one with meaning for small businesses of all kinds, is what's happening on Tyler Road here at the Shetler Family Dairy.
 Not that long ago, George and Sally Shetler were small fry in an industry dominated by big players, producers of a bulk commodity in which prices essentially had not budged for 20 years. Continuing to supply the conventional fluid milk market, the Shetlers concluded, would take them down the same bankruptcy path that the Department of Agriculture says claimed almost 400 farms a week from 1974 to the mid-1990's, most of them small. 
 So in 1995, the Shetlers decided to try a more entrepreneurial approach. If the markets they could reach through conventional channels were unsatisfactory, what new market could they tap? 
 The one right around them, as it turned out -- bottling and delivering their milk directly to stores in Traverse City, 25 miles away, the center of a five-county region with 165,000 residents and growing faster than almost any place in the Midwest.
 The couple, who raised five children in a 90-year-old farmhouse with one bathroom and a lot of wallpaper with cows, sent a survey to local markets and learned that proprietors were eager to sell fresh food produced by local growers. They then sat at their dining table and wrote a straightforward business plan on one page of unlined white paper -- ''Start small within 1995. Action to be taken: Pray!!'' -- that accurately described the fast-growing business they and several of their children operate.
 Today, the milk from its 38 cows is bottled in a $140,000 microcreamery the family built and stocked with used equipment. The dairy ships 1,300 gallons of milk and dairy products twice a week to 50 stores in the Grand Traverse region. Their truck has a set of Texas longhorns bolted to the roof of the cab, a black-and-white Holstein pattern and a slogan: ''From Moo to You.'' 
 The result? Revenues have grown fourfold, and the farm now has seven employees.
 ''You know what this has done for us? Every other weekend now I get off and don't have to milk,'' said Mr. Shetler, 53, who bought his 180-acre farm 25 years ago.
 There are other examples of how the adage in agriculture to ''get big or get out'' is being turned on its head by growers who are staying small, and getting much more profitable. Mike and Tina Werp, for instance, produce specialty baby vegetables for 15 restaurants in Traverse City, Detroit and Mackinac Island, one of the state's top tourist destinations. They have an 80-acre farm in Grant Township, which is south of Traverse City, but do most of the cultivating in greenhouses and fields on just 10 acres. Their total annual revenue is $150,000, or $15,000 an acre. 
 Revenue, moreover, is growing steadily and is enough to employ three full-time and three part-time workers. By contrast, conventional corn growers in the region are fortunate if they earn $300 an acre. ''The idea is to do things intelligently,'' said Mr. Werp, an engineer who was raised in Detroit but migrated to the region in the mid-1970's to manage the farm, which was owned by his grandparents. ''I'm not trying to do what Ford, G.M. and Chrysler try to do. I don't need my vegetables to be in every community.''
 Entrepreneurial farms are largely invisible to government and economic development agencies, said Bill Palladino, a small-business development specialist in the Traverse City region. ''We know it is a core economy for our region,'' Mr. Palladino said, ''but we don't know how big it is yet. We want to know. The value-added ag economy is based locally, uses local resources, and takes those resources and extends them to the marketplace here.''
 The success of Shetler Family Dairy, Werp Farms and dozens of other small growers in northern Michigan has attracted the attention of the Traverse City Area Chamber of Commerce. The chamber's foundation joined the W. K. Kellogg Foundation in Battle Creek, Mich., which co-sponsored the publication of a regional food guide, prepared by the Michigan Land Use Institute, to link small farmers with local customers.
 The basic idea of putting buyers and sellers of homegrown food together, of course, is not new. Farmers' markets have existed as long as the republic. But farmers' ingenuity in tapping new markets, and consumers' eagerness for farm-fresh foods, are both on the rise, according to the Department of Agriculture. And local and state governments and the business community are doing more to support the trend, recognizing that small farms are linked to other useful economic, environmental and cultural outcomes.
 For instance, Douglas Luciani, the president of the Traverse City Area Chamber of Commerce, , said that farms provide scenic open space that helps attract tourists and puts a brake on some of the unmanaged development and sprawl.
 Similar views are expressed in dozens of fast-growing urban and suburban communities nationwide. The number of farms that are 10 to 49 acres actually increased to 563,772 in 2002 from 530,902 in 1997, according to the latest farm census by the Department of Agriculture. Some of those farms are in Community Supported Agriculture programs, known as C.S.A.'s, which sell shares to customers during the winter for a portion of their summer production. There are now more than 1,700 C.S.A.'s, according to an article on NewFarm.org, a Web site of the nonprofit group Rodale Institute. 
 Farmers are driving the innovation in new markets. In Lincoln, Neb., earlier this year, a group of 10 farmers opened what most authorities think is the only grocery store in the nation owned and managed by growers. The 5,000-square-foot Centerville Farmers' Market in the historic Haymarket district occupies the first floor of a renovated steam-tractor factory. John Ellis, a farmer and the store manager, said the store was intended to operate year-round featuring homegrown, mostly chemical-free fruits, vegetables, meats (including buffalo, ostrich and emu), dairy products and other foods produced by 31 growers. It cost $75,000 to prepare the space, and business has been brisk. ''We're attracting some attention and we're developing our market,'' Mr. Ellis said.
 Consumers are not the only people taking an interest in locally grown food. State governments are beginning to see small family farms as an asset capable of generating jobs and slowing suburban sprawl. In Massachusetts, for instance, the Farm Viability Enhancement Program has helped 139 family farms, or 2 percent of the state's total, stay in business by making grants to farms for new marketing projects.
 Last year, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm introduced Select a Taste of Michigan, a program to promote asparagus and nine other fresh market crops. Rick Oomen, 49, a vegetable farmer in Hart, credited the program with raising prices. ''The last two years, we've enjoyed the best fresh market prices I can remember,'' he said.
 Such optimism is striking in an industry where bad news is generally the norm. Not so for many of the state's 52,000 farms, including the Shetlers'. Though there were days when the Shetlers thought they might lose the farm, those have passed. ''Before we started bottling milk it was always at the back of my mind -- do something,'' Mrs. Shetler said. ''We did and it's working out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HAND WORK -- Tina Werp inspects plants on her 80-acre farm, which produces specialty vegetables for restaurants in Michigan, while Sean Krammer, at left, harvests squash one at a time.
 EARLY RISER -- George Shetler is up at 4 a.m. on his dairy farm, which sells directly to local stores. That strategy has led to a fourfold growth in revenues. (Photographs by Gary Howe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MILK (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); TOURISM (50%) Agriculture; Labor; Small Business; Farmers

PERSON: Keith Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



440 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; ANIMAL KINGDOM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Wet Nose, Floppy Ears, Four Legs and a Million Business Opportunities

BYLINE: By JACK SMITH

 BODY:
SOME people look at dogs and see their best friend. Others see a business opportunity. Here are a few such tales:

Two Dogs and a Goat, New York
BUSINESS -- Pet services.
OWNER -- Charlotte Reed
FOUNDED -- 1996
EMPLOYEES -- Started with one dog walker, now 25.
 For Charlotte Reed, the aha! moment came in 1996, when she arrived home early from her job as a securities lawyer and found her dog walker trying on her clothes. Once her outrage was spent, she began thinking, What if somebody were to turn this routine chore into a real business that was bonded, open 24 hours a day seven days a week, with satisfaction guaranteed and credit cards accepted? ''We charged $15 an hour instead of $12,'' Ms. Reed said. ''We grew quickly because people talk about dogs all the time.'' 
Today Ms. Reed oversees 25 dog walkers who have passed background and reference checks. ''But the most important thing is how they interact with the dogs,'' she said.
As to its business potential, that is up to the individual, Ms. Reed said. ''Depending on how much you want to grow, you can make anywhere from $20,000 to $1 million per year.''
It's hard to imagine anyone leveraging her dog-walking expertise more than Ms. Reed, who is the author of ''Pet Owning Made Easy,'' a series of booklets on animal care; a frequent guest on local and national TV; a member of the New York State Veterinary Board; and a doggy party planner. She is also a member of the National Association of Professional Pet Sitters' Hall of Fame.

Jim Dratfield's Petography
New York
BUSINESS -- Photographing pets.
OWNER -- Jim Dratfield
FOUNDED -- 1995
EMPLOYEES -- Started with one and about $10,000 in equipment; now has a manager and three part timers.
 What Jim Dratfield needed was promotional material to build up his acting career. ''I was an amateur photographer, so I took the pictures myself,'' he said. As an afterthought, Mr. Dratfield included his dog, Kuma, an Akita, in the pictures. 
 The photographs did not land him more acting jobs, but they did get him work taking pictures of dogs. Nine years later, he is a leading figure in ''petography.'' Besides producing five books of dog photography with editions in Germany, Japan, Brazil, Britain and Australia, Mr. Dratfield has been profiled on the ABC program ''20/20'' and CNN and featured in AT&T Corporation and Visa advertising campaigns. His patrons include celebrity dog owners like Jennifer Aniston, Kathy Bates, Oscar de la Renta and Lara Flynn Boyle. A photo session consisting of a few hours costs $1,000 to $4,000 in New York, and a minimum of $4,000 if out of town. 
Mr. Dratfield said there was no blueprint for success in petography. ''You have to invest about $10,000 to get started,'' he said. ''You need a good camera and have to take a lot of pictures to show your product. You don't need a studio -- I've always preferred to photograph dogs in their own homes. But most important, you have to have a lot of patience and love dogs.''

Doga at East Yoga, New York
BUSINESS -- Yoga for dogs.
OWNER -- Kari Harendorf
FOUNDED -- 2004
EMPLOYEES -- Started with her dog, now has 40 students (20 humans and 20 dogs).
 ''Om. Inhale. Exhale. Stretch. Hug your dog.''
 What's going on in Kari Harendorf's studio on Avenue B is not everyday yoga but ''doga,'' yoga for dogs. The idea came to Ms. Harendorf, a yoga aficionado and dog lover, when she took Charlie, her mixed-breed husky, to a yoga class. ''He blissed out from the oming and breathing; he even mimicked our poses.''
She began offering doga last June, and her weekly class attracts up to 20 students who pay $15 to participate with their dogs. A typical class goes like this: After oming and stretching, the owners pat their dogs and stretch their paws before trying positions like the Lotus Flower, in which the dogs place their paws over their eyes, or Flying Angel, in which the owners lie on their backs and hold their dogs up with their arms and legs.
After 45 minutes of such maneuvers, the class ends. As Ms. Harendorf points out, the dogs seem more relaxed than when they arrived. Whether this is because of doga or that class is over is hard to say.

Camp Gone to the Dogs, Vermont
BUSINESS -- Dog camps.
OWNER -- Honey Loring
FOUNDED -- 1990.
EMPLOYEES -- Started with 6 staff members and 57 campers; now has 30 staff members and 450 campers.
 Somewhere out there, Honey Loring thought, there were people who hated taking a vacation without their dogs. Who enjoyed every waking moment even more with their furry buddy at their side, and were dying to teach their dog how to dance and jump rope. These were the folks for whom Ms. Loring, a former dog trainer, Montessori teacher, social worker and psychologist, created Camp Gone to the Dogs.
''My first camp was held in August of 1990,'' Ms. Loring said. ''I rented a rustic girls' camp in southeastern Vermont for about $125 a day. I wrote some press releases, took out a few display ads in dog periodicals and did a brochure. My promotional costs were about $2,000 and I got 57 campers.''
Today her camps draw close to 450 campers paying $850 to $1,350 a week to the verdant fields of Marlboro and Stowe, Vt., where they stay in motels and college dormitories. ''Most of my clientele want air-conditioning, modern plumbing and privacy, which you don't get in a tent.''
Besides creature comforts, Camp Gone to the Dogs offers activities like early-morning nature walks, tail-wagging contests and free-style dancing. For Madelyn Carlin, a New Yorker, the fun never palls. ''I tried two years in a row to get myself and Rosie, my miniature schnauzer, into this camp, but both times it was sold out.'' She and Rosie finally got in five years ago and haven't missed a camp since.

Companion Air, Florida
BUSINESS -- Airline for owners and their pets.
OWNER -- Rick Roof
FOUNDED -- 2001
STARTING -- In December, with 20 leased planes.
 Rick Roof was frustrated every time he tried to fly with his three dogs. So he decided to do something about it. The result is Companion Air, in Wellington, Fla., an airline dedicated to pets and their owners. ''The paperwork and certifications have taken three years, but we're close to our inaugural flight,'' said Mr. Roof, a former high-technology executive and the airline's chief executive. Companion Air plans to operate three to four flights a week along the Eastern seaboard before expanding across the United States. 
Though not a scheduled carrier, the booking process will be similar. The most noticeable differences will be costs and aircraft size. ''We expect air fares to be comparable to full, unrestricted economy tickets,'' Mr. Roof said. ''That's about three to five times the cheapest scheduled fares.''
The aircraft will be the Swiss-built Pilatus, a turboprop that can carry four to five passengers with their dogs in crates in the same cabin. In some metropolitan areas, Companion Air will fly from such general aviation airports as those in Danbury, Conn., Westchester County, N.Y., and Teterboro, N.J. At others, like Palm Beach, Fla., the company will use the local major airport. ''It will be a premium service, close to first class,'' Mr. Roof said. ''The numbers of pets we carry will depend on their size. If we're carrying Great Danes, we'll have space for just a few. If we're carrying hedgehogs, we'll have room for hundreds.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: POOCHES AND PROFIT -- Jim Dratfield, above, works with Mickey, Honey and Timothy as Pat Mills and Brooke Jacobs look on
Kari Harendorf, near right, gives a yoga lesson to Alison Cady and Lexi
 and at left, Burberry tastes his birthday cake at a party organized by Charlotte Reed, whose company offers pet services. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (91%); PETS (89%); PET CARE SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (85%); ANIMALS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); WRITERS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Pets; Small Business

COMPANY: AT&T INC (61%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (61%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (61%)

PERSON: JENNIFER ANISTON (50%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (50%) Jack Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (52%); GERMANY (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



441 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Reborn After One Hurricane, Gulf Shores Is Back at Drawing Board

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

DATELINE: GULF SHORES, Ala., Sept 19 

 BODY:
For a mayor still barely able to reach the most damaged sections of his city, David L. Bodenhamer remains remarkably upbeat about the long-term fallout from Hurricane Ivan's landfall last week in his low-lying coastal community.
 ''No house down here sold for less than a million a week ago,'' Mr. Bodenhamer, who coincidentally is also a real estate agent, said, pointing to the once neat row of stilted luxury beachfront condominiums that now resembles a crumbled and occasionally toothless grin. ''For the houses down here that are upright, you could now get them for less than a million, but not by much.'' 
 Figuring out which houses are upright enough for habitation will take time. The mayor and City Council have spent all their time coordinating the distribution of emergency food and water to residents made homeless.
 The only efforts to protect property have involved clearing debris for traffic and fending off looters. Earthmovers have piled sand into mile-long 20-foot-tall heaps along roads that are deserted apart from patrols by National Guard members who briefly raised their M-16's at one resident whom they took for a looter.
 The buildings safe enough for rescue workers to enter have been certified with spray-paint symbols that signify no bodies were found inside. Concrete dangles from foundations, and long sections of sewer pipes are exposed.
 A wheel-spinning ride down the beach in a four-wheel-drive truck with the mayor, a City Council member and another real estate agent brings alive the story of how Gulf Shores turned the devastation of a previous hurricane into a decades-long building boom.
 Pounding into Gulf Shores 25 years and 3 days before Hurricane Ivan, Hurricane Frederic
 wiped out a large segment of the single-family houses on an island that was little known even in Alabama.
 ''In many ways, it was Hurricane Frederic that first put us on the map,'' Mr. Bodenhamer said. ''People learned about our great coastline, and the people wanting condominiums started arriving.''
 The first post-Frederic wave of construction was mainly driven by people who lived a short distance from the coast. The permanent population swelled, from less than 2,000 before Hurricane Frederic to more than 3,000 in the early 90's, when groups from Midwestern states, so-called snowbirds, began arriving in large numbers in the cold months in the north.
 A line from one local song goes, ''If it's snowbird season, why can't we shoot them?'' 
 They sent real estate prices in a climb that continued through the post-Sept. 11 slowdown felt by many beach resorts.
 ''People always feel very safe down here,'' Mr. Bodenhamer said. ''We may have developed, but we have never lost that local feel.''
 That feel is most evident in the restaurants, Mr. Bodenhamer said, all of which are family run, apart from Hooters.
 Chuck Norwood, the other real estate agent on the tour, pointed to the first sites he sold, battered adjoining wood houses on stilts on the shore.
 ''I was in seventh heaven in 1992 selling those lots for $235,000 and $238,500,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''But that was just the beginning. I think that Ivan will make a lot of people who hesitated eager to sell or rebuild something new.''
 The post-Ivan construction will likely take the island into a new and sturdier level of construction, said Gregg Kennedy, the City Council member who was driving the truck. Mr. Kennedy is a general contractor.
 ''Just about every other bulkhead on the beach fell during Hurricane Danny, apart from mine,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''People will build stronger and bigger because they now know this is the right place.''
 Although Hurricane Ivan may drive up redevelopment here, the trend, plans and support were firmly in place before the storm, said Ernie Smith, the Gulf Shores director of economic development.
 ''Ivan may move the schedule up some, but we already had ourselves a plan,'' Mr. Smith said, displaying the map of a vast retail complex intended for construction near the island. ''We intend on developing smart and nice, not like Myrtle Beach, where you can't see the beach for the concrete.'' 
 In addition to the 66-acre shopping center, the airport recently extended its runway to accept larger corporate jets, and there are plans to lengthen the Boardwalk along the beach. Zoning laws, which limit every lot to no more than 42 condominium units, will most likely lead to the building of narrow buildings that do not block sea views and encourage walking, Mr. Smith said.
 ''We have planned for the kind of beach resort where you spend all day on the beach, not stuck in traffic jams,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Ivan has accelerated our transformation from Redneck Riviera into a true top-notch Gulf Coast resort.''
 Such changes do not sit well with all residents.
 ''Ivan just finished what Frederic started, and I must say I find that sad,'' said Clayton Wallace, editor of The Islander, a twice-a-week newspaper here. ''Look around you right now, because -- bless it -- this mess is the last of the old Gulf Shores.''
 Living on a plot purchased by his great-great-grandfather in 1861 with Confederate cash -- the seller unsuccessfully sued for further payment after the Civil War -- Mr. Wallace worries that Gulf Shores will soon lose its soul.
 ''Looks like the Pink Pony Pub may survive, but it's possible Nolan's bar and the gumbo shop will be condemned,'' he said. ''If they go, that will be the end of this sleepy coastal town as it turns into just another row of condos on the gulf.''
 For Mr. Wallace and other long-term residents, Ivan brought odd moments of deja vu.
 ''Twenty-five years after Frederic ruined my birthday by stopping me from getting my driver's license for three weeks, Ivan ruins my birthday by wrecking our house -- now my house -- again,'' Mr. Wallace said, adding that the heights of the storm surges were virtually identical. ''The pine needles we left in bathroom door jams from Frederic are at the same height as the stains from Ivan.''
 The biggest difference between the storms has been the aftermath, Mr. Wallace said.
 ''Last time, we had to walk across the bridge to pick up ice from the seafood plant, and there was no Salvation Army,'' he said. ''This time, we have the National Guard all over the place, and people handing out truckloads of food and ice.''
 Walter Norton, also a lifelong resident, said the similarities in the damage to his family's house from the two storms were striking.
 ''When you stand back and compare what happened, there is an almost eerie similarity in the damage,'' Mr. Norton said. ''We are planning to take photographs to compare.''
 He said the storm might prompt his family to rebuild, but it will not be out of choice.
 ''We just hope the insurance does not condemn us, because then we would be forced to build up on stilts,'' Mr. Norton said. ''We are not like the real estate developers. It would cost us money that we don't want to spend.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A pool and a condominium complex last Thursday, after Hurricane Ivan struck Orange Beach, Ala., next to Gulf Shores.
 Mayor David L. Bodenhamer of Gulf Shores at flooded Route 59, the route to the beach and million-dollar houses on the coast. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of Gulf Shores, Alabama, highlighting the paths of hurricane Frederic (1979) and Ivan: Hurricane Frederic pounded Gulf Shores in September 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); BEACHES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); RESORTS (72%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Frederick (Storm); Ivan (Storm); Geographic Profiles; Housing; Condominiums

PERSON: David L (Mayor) Bodenhamer; Thomas Crampton

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (95%) Alabama; Gulf Shores (Ala)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



442 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop as Colgate and Unilever Cut Profit Forecasts

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday as Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever cut profit forecasts, fueling concern that earnings growth is slowing at a time when borrowing costs are headed higher.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 6.35 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,122.20. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 79.57 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,204.89. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.02 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,908.07. 
 About three stocks fell for every two that advanced on the New York Exchange. Some 1.19 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 7.7 percent less than the three-month average.
 ''You're seeing companies that have long, stable records of performance all of a sudden coming out with announcements of lower expectations,'' said Marvin Roffman, president of the Philadelphia-based Roffman Miller Associates, which has $255 million in assets. ''I expect to see more of it.'' 
 Colgate and Unilever are the latest consumer products companies to trim profit predictions after Coca-Cola said last week that second-half earnings would decline. 
 Colgate fell $6.10, or 11 percent, to $48.23, its steepest drop in four years. The company said earnings would be 57 cents to 59 cents a share -- well below forecasts -- in the third quarter and fourth quarter because of higher marketing expenses. 
 The United States shares of Unilever, a British-Dutch food and consumer products company, declined $2.78, to $58.16. The company cut its annual profit forecast as sales of its main brands declined for a second consecutive quarter.
 Procter & Gamble, the maker of Crest toothpaste and Olay skin creams, slid $1.88, to $54.38. Its 3.3 percent drop was the steepest in the Dow average. An S.&P. 500 index of household and personal-products stocks lost 3.7 percent, for the biggest drop among the benchmark's 24 industry groups.
 Altria, the parent of Philip Morris USA, led cigarette makers lower. The United States is asking a judge to order five tobacco companies, including Philip Morris USA, to forfeit $280 billion in profits, invoking a racketeering law that the industry argues authorizes no penalty at all. The companies go on trial today in Washington.
 Altria dropped $1.40, to $47.08. Reynolds American, the No. 2 cigarette maker in the United States, shed $2.49, to $69.89, and American shares of British American Tobacco lost 42 cents, to $28.71.
 Novellus gained $1.16, to $27.04, after the company, a maker of equipment that builds circuits in computer chips, increased its stock buyback program by $1 billion. Hewlett-Packard, which also accelerated and expanded its share repurchase program, rose 30 cents, to $18.41.
 Citigroup and Pfizer were the biggest drags on the S.&P. 500 after analysts cut their ratings on the stocks.
 Citigroup fell $1.55, to $45.40. Guy Moszkowski of Merrill Lynch cut the company to neutral from buy, citing the prospects of slower growth after Japanese financial services authorities ordered Citigroup to close its private bank.
 Pfizer shed 73 cents, to $30.99. The company's profit growth may lag that of its rivals next year as experimental drugs are delayed and competition from generic drug makers increases, Jami Rubin of Morgan Stanley wrote in a report. She reduced the stock to equal weight from overweight.
 Treasury notes rose in price after crude oil advanced to a four-week high and the benchmark stock indexes fell. Demand for fixed-income assets increased on speculation that higher energy prices may extend the duration of what the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said last month was a ''soft patch'' in the economy. 
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 15/32, to 101 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.06 percent, from 4.11 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.574	99.054	High Rate	1.685	1.870	Investment Rate	1.716	1.914	Low Rate	1.660	1.845	Median Rate	1.670	1.855	Total applied for	$45,423,398	$40,586,474	Accepted	$24,682,746	$21,989,769	Noncompetitive	$1,405,980	$1,113,570	

Both issues are dated Sept. 23, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 23, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on March 24, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (87%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS MFG (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (73%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); FOOD MFG (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (90%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ROFFMAN MILLER ASSOCIATES INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (52%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (52%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (52%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (51%); PFIZER INC (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (90%); UNA (BIT) (90%); UNA (AMS) (90%); UN (NYSE) (90%); ULVR (LSE) (90%); UL (NYSE) (90%); CL (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (52%); BTI (JSE) (52%); BATS (LSE) (52%); MO (NYSE) (52%); RAI (NYSE) (51%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (90%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (51%); SIC2121 CIGARS (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NETHERLANDS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



443 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Tax Avoiders

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Taxing Global Profits'' (editorial, Sept. 17):
 You are rightly alarmed at the extent of tax avoidance by multinationals based in the United States and suggest that we carefully look at alternative tax systems.
 During the Bush administration, there has been a weakening of our tax system through failure to plug loopholes and by denying the Internal Revenue Service necessary resources.
 We have the finest tax system in the world; we must approach any systemic changes carefully and make sure that we do not force a change or allow new technologies, capital flows and other economic changes to cause us to adopt a tax system that does not provide the fairness and equity as well as the revenue needed to finance necessary government programs.
 The Bush administration's deficit-producing tax cuts and attempts to eliminate taxation of capital income are intended to limit or deny necessary health care, old age and other benefits and regressively shift much of our taxes to wages and consumption.

Joseph H. Guttentag
Washington, Sept. 17, 2004

The writer was a deputy assistant Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%) Taxation; Tax Shelters

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: Joseph H Guttentag; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



444 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Medicare, Now and in the Future

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Those Soaring Medicare Premiums'' (editorial, Sept. 17) correctly judges both the Bush and Kerry approaches to cost control as unlikely to work, but says nothing about alternatives that might be effective. 
 Health care cost inflation has many causes, the most important of which are the increasing use of expensive new technology (including drugs) and the growing industrialization of health care, with entrepreneurial incentives and high overhead.
 To bring these and other causes of inflation under control, we will need major reform of both the insurance system and the organization of medical care delivery. This will be resisted by all the vested interests that now profit from the status quo, but there is no other long-term solution to this problem.

Arnold S. Relman, M.D.
Boston, Sept. 17, 2004

The writer, professor emeritus of medicine and social medicine at Harvard Medical School, was editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, 1977-91.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%)

PERSON: Arnold S (Dr) Relman

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) NORTHEAST USA (51%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



445 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Controls For Economic Agency

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by George James

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey ordered stronger financial oversight yesterday for the state's Commerce and Economic Growth Commission, after disclosures in recent months that its former chief offered no-bid contracts and jobs to family members. The Rev. William Watley, former leader of the commission, an agency that promotes business in the state, resigned July 14 after questions were raised over his role in a construction loan for his Newark church.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (87%); TRENDS (86%); ETHICS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Politics and Government

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (84%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



446 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE TRADITION; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Duel of Wits and Styles, Even if 'You're No Jack Kennedy'

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
The first of this year's three presidential and one vice-presidential debates will take place a week from Thursday, on Sept. 30, at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Fla., under an agreement announced yesterday by the representatives of the major-party campaigns.
 For John Kerry, running behind in most polls, the debates will offer a chance to show exactly who he is and what he stands for. For President Bush, they will offer a chance to win over some of the skeptical voters who still consider him a lightweight, even after almost four years in office. But if they resemble past debates, the impact this year will go well beyond a mere judgment of who won and who lost. The results are usually much more complex, political scientists have come to believe in the quarter-century since 1976, when such debates became a firm fixture on the electoral calendar. 
 Wendy Rahn, an elections scholar who is an associate professor at the University of Minnesota, suggested in an interview that debates have become rituals -- rather like conventions and the Labor Day opening of the general-election campaign -- that ''convince the voters that they are important, that they are wanted and needed.'' Her research, Professor Rahn said, indicates that in recent years they have functioned as glue to hold society together.
 In a year in which politicians of both parties believe that turnout could tip the results in pivotal states like Ohio, Minnesota and Wisconsin, reluctant voters newly convinced of their importance might well be likely to go to the polls in larger numbers. On the other hand, Professor Rahn asserted, increased fragmentation of the television audience with the decline of the networks and the rise of cable channels might diminish the viewership for the debates and thereby change their effect.
 Recent studies of the debates four years ago by Prof. Kathleen Hall Jamieson of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania and others indicate that it matters whether a voter actually watches the debates or forms an opinion from reading media commentary devoted to them. Those who watched the first debate, Professor Jamieson said, tended to think Al Gore won, while those who merely read about it reflected the view of many journalists that Mr. Bush had succeeded in making Mr. Gore look hypocritical.
 This year, Professor Jamieson asked, will people come away from the debates and what is said and written about them believing that Mr. Kerry is indecisive -- the flip-flopper pictured in Republican commercials and speeches? Or will they conclude that Mr. Bush is a rigid ideologue who inhabits a fantasy world, as the Democrats would have it?
 ''Debates give voters a chance to assess the accuracy of the charges and countercharges, to see whether the picture painted by television advertising matches reality,'' Professor Jamieson said. ''They're not so much about gaining a tactical advantage as about modifying and increasing the voters' knowledge level. They don't necessarily bring about major shifts in voting patterns, but they deepen impressions.''
 In a paper published 10 years ago in The American Political Science Review, Professor Rahn argued that while debates captured voters' attention in ways that ads and speeches did not, they affected different people in different ways. Political sophisticates, she wrote, can extract new information from a debate with considerable facility, while ''nonsophisticates may find their capacities overwhelmed by the additional demands of a more complicated, debate-focused presentation format'' and rely instead on what they can pick up from candidates' ads.
 Past debates have offered guidelines for this year's. Candidates live in terror of factual gaffes or tactical missteps, and they can be very costly, if relatively rare. The most famous may have been Gerald R. Ford's assertion in 1976 that there was ''no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.'' Played up by the press, it stalled Mr. Ford's campaign for a time, until Dick Cheney -- then his chief of staff, now vice president and as such a scheduled debater himself this year -- persuaded Mr. Ford to issue a ''clarification.''
 In the vice-presidential debate that year, Bob Dole cemented a public view of himself as a savage infighter with the comment that 1.6 million Americans had been killed or wounded in ''Democrat wars in this century.'' He has never entirely shaken off that impression. Nor did Dan Quayle ever recover from the wounding shaft of Lloyd M. Bentsen, his vice-presidential rival in 1988. When Mr. Quayle suggested that his political experience was comparable to John F. Kennedy's, Mr. Bentsen shot back: ''Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy. I knew Jack Kennedy. Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy.''
 Sometimes a gaffe is wordless, as when the elder George Bush looked longingly at his watch at one point in 1992.
 Walter F. Mondale unintentionally gave Ronald Reagan an opening in 1984 when he demanded: ''Who's in charge? Who's handling this matter? That's my main point.'' To which Mr. Reagan replied, ''I know it will come as a surprise to Mr. Mondale, but I am in charge'' -- a rebuttal that Mr. Bush might consider this year.
 In 1984, facing Mr. Mondale, Mr. Reagan said, ''I will not make age an issue of this campaign. I am not going to exploit for political purposes my opponent's youth and inexperience.'' Mr. Mondale later said he knew at once that he had lost.
 Another tactic from the past that might serve Mr. Bush well was one his father used in 1992, even though the elder Mr. Bush ultimately lost the race. In an important debate late in that year's campaign, he did his best to make voters think about character and trust, rather than about the number of jobs lost in his administration, even invoking Horace Greeley to the effect that character counts most.
 As for Mr. Kerry, he, too, could borrow from Mr. Reagan, who himself borrowed from Mr. Kennedy's summation in 1960, a challenger's classic. ''Are you better off than you were four years ago?'' Mr. Reagan asked in 1980. ''Is there more or less unemployment than there was four years ago? Is America more or less respected?''
 One thing is clear: Both men are effective debaters, though their styles differ, as Mr. Bush proved against Ann Richards in the governor's race in Texas in 1994 and against Mr. Gore in 2000, and Mr. Kerry amply demonstrated against William F. Weld in a series of clashes in Massachusetts in 1996.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Debates: When and How''Thursday, Sept. 30LOCATION: University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla.FORMAT AND TOPIC: Candidates standing at lecterns
topics are foreign policy and domestic securityFriday, Oct. 8LOCATION: Washington University in St. LouisFORMAT AND TOPIC: Town-hall style, with questions from audience members
equal balance of foreign and domestic policy questionsWednesday, Oct. 13LOCATION: Arizona State University, Tempe, Ariz.FORMAT AND TOPIC: Candidates standing at lecterns
topics will be economic and domestic policyVICE-PRESIDENTIAL DEBATETuesday, Oct. 5LOCATION: Case Western Reserve University, ClevelandFORMAT AND TOPIC: Candidates seated at table with moderator
 equal balance of foreign and domestic policy questions(Source by Bush and Kerry campaigns) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); WRITERS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Presidential Elections (US); Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%) R W Jr Apple; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



447 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Diplomatic Memo; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aides Divided on Confronting Iran Over A-Bomb

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
At a time when the violent insurgency in Iraq is vexing the Bush administration and stirring worries among Americans, events may be propelling the United States into yet another confrontation, this time with Iran. The issues have an almost eerie familiarity, evoking the warnings and threats that led to the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein, and stirring an equally passionate debate.
 Like Iraq in its final years under Saddam Hussein, Iran is believed by experts to be on the verge of developing a nuclear bomb. In Iraq, that proved to be untrue, though this time the consensus is much stronger among Western experts. 
 In addition, as with Iraq, administration officials have said recently that Iran is supporting insurgencies and terrorism in other countries. Recently, top administration officials have accused the Tehran government of backing the rebels in Iraq, something that officials fear could increase if Iran is pressed too hard on its nuclear program.
 A parallel concern in Washington is Iran's continued backing of Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite group that the administration and the Israeli government say is channeling aid to groups attacking Israeli civilians. Israel also warns that Iran's nuclear program will reach a ''point of no return'' next year, after which it will be able to make a bomb without any outside assistance.
 The Bush administration has yet to forge a clear strategy on how to deal with Iran, partly because of a lack of attractive options and partly because there is a debate under way between hard-liners and advocates of diplomatic engagement. But in another similarity with the Iraq situation before the war, Washington is in considerable disagreement with key allies over how to handle the threat.
 Britain, France and Germany say Iran's nuclear program is unacceptable, but they also warn that a confrontation could backfire and that incentives as well as punishments need to be presented to Tehran. Threatening sanctions -- a cutoff in oil purchases, for example -- is not viewed as credible or likely to get much support, they say.
 European views cannot be dismissed, especially after the discord over Iraq, administration officials say. Last weekend, under European pressure, the United States agreed to defer its demand that the International Atomic Energy Agency immediately refer Iran's noncooperation on nuclear issues to the United Nations Security Council, where sanctions might be considered.Instead, Iran was given two more months to show that it was cooperating. 
 Still, even Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, the leading advocate of diplomacy in Mr. Bush's inner circle, cites a gathering threat from Iran.
 ''Diplomacy does not mean failure to look in the lion's mouth,'' Mr. Powell said in a recent interview. ''Diplomacy doesn't mean pretending something isn't there when it's there. The Iranians have a nuclear weapons program, and I keep telling everybody it is the responsibility of the international community to apply all the pressure we can.''
 With Iran policy in a state of flux, there is a drive among conservatives to reach out to Iranian dissidents and exiles seeking to overthrow the government, much as efforts were made with Iraqis in the 1990's. Senator Rick Santorum, a Pennsylvania Republican, is sponsoring legislation favoring ''regime change,'' with what some say is the tacit backing of administration conservatives.
 Last year, when it was trying to reach out to Tehran for cooperation on Iraq, the administration stated that it did not support regime change in Iran, though President Bush also spoke out in favor of greater democracy there. 
 Administration officials say that there was an internal debate last year but that the idea of giving aid to dissidents who might try to overthrow the Iranian government had been dropped for lack of any credible groups to support.
 Yet the cause of regime change in Iran is expected to be revived if President Bush is re-elected, administration officials say. Leading the charge is John R. Bolton, the under secretary of state for nonproliferation, who gave a speech last month saying that Iran's conduct did not ''bode well for the success of a negotiated approach to dealing with this issue.'' A colleague called him ''the self-appointed tip of the spear'' in the discussions.
 In an interview, Mr. Bolton declined to comment on whether regime change was appropriate for Iran, other than to say that even without outside support, widespread unhappiness among Iranians over a lagging economy and stifling religious rule could bring a ''revolution from below.'' 
 ''When the old regime in South Africa collapsed they got rid of their nukes,'' Mr. Bolton said. ''When Ukraine became independent they did the same. At a time of profound dislocation, it is not inconceivable that a new government in Tehran might be persuaded to drop its nuclear program.''
 On the other side of the spectrum, some at the State Department say no solution is possible without a discussion of benefits to the Tehran government if it changes its behavior, or without progress in the impasse between Israel and the Palestinians.
 Some experts call for a ''grand bargain'' that would involve an across-the-board agreement in which changed behavior by Tehran on all fronts would be negotiated in return for normal relations and investment from the West.
 Still other experts say that such an approach is overly ambitious and that ''selective engagement'' on a few crucial issues, including steps to stabilize Iraq, should be tried first. That view is advocated by a Council on Foreign Relations committee led by Zbigniew Brzezinski, President Carter's national security adviser, and Robert M. Gates, a director of central intelligence in the early 1990's.
 In three and a half years the Bush administration has tried engaging Iran, but little has come of its efforts. Diplomatic contacts at low levels were suspended in May of last year. Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, is charging the Bush administration with ignoring the Iran problem. Mr. Kerry said last month that the United States ''must work with our allies to end Iran's nuclear weapons program and be ready to work with them to implement a range of tougher measures if needed.''
 For all the talk about new policies, few administration officials or policy makers and experts outside the administration think that any new approach will be unveiled soon.
 A final unpredictable factor in the discussions involves Israel, which some intelligence experts say would be willing to strike one or more Iranian weapons sites, as it did with the French-built nuclear reactor in Iraq in 1981.
 Israeli and American officials insist that the idea of a strike against Iranian sites is impractical. Nevertheless, some diplomats were rattled by a recent warning from Iran's defense minister, Vice Adm. Ali Shamkhani, that Iran would retaliate if Israel tried any such thing. 
 ''I'm frankly very pessimistic about the future,'' said Patrick Clawson, deputy director of the Washington Institute for Near Eastern Policy. ''We have to offer a carrot as well as brandishing a stick. But this administration is too busy and they don't want to think about it. I don't think very much is going to happen until after the American election.''





CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the Bush administration's policy on Iran misstated the title of John R. Bolton, who has been critical of the government there. He is under secretary of state for arms control and international security; under secretary for nonproliferation is an unofficial shorthand form.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); INTERVIEWS (63%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) Steven R Weisman; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); FRANCE (92%); IRAN (88%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (68%) Iran; Iraq; Great Britain; France; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



448 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Lifts Trade Embargo on Libya in Return for Promise on Arms

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush revoked the United States trade embargo on Libya on Monday and took other steps aimed at eventually establishing normal relations with the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in return for its keeping a promise to give up nuclear, chemical and biological weapons.
 Libya, however, remains on the American list of states that sponsor terrorism. The Bush administration said specifically that it remained ''seriously concerned'' about allegations of Libyan involvement in an attempt to assassinate Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. 
 Libya's listing as a sponsor of terrorism bars the restoration for now of full diplomatic relations and means that some restrictions on commercial activity, like the export of items with military and security applications, will be maintained. Mr. Bush's action is a significant step in a process that began last year, when it was announced that Libya had agreed to abandon its weapons programs on a phased basis. The steps taken Monday were the results of a decision announced in April to suspend most remaining sanctions.
 ''At the beginning of this process, the president committed to respond to concrete Libyan actions in good faith,'' said Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, noting that Mr. Bush had promised last year to work with Libya so that it could ''regain a secure and respected place among the nations and, over time, better relations with the United States.''
 Among the steps taken by Mr. Bush were the removal of economic restrictions on aviation services, permitting direct flights between the United States and Libya; unfreezing $1.3 billion in assets; and providing what Mr. McClellan said would be ''a level playing field for U.S. businesses in Libya'' by allowing them to secure American economic benefits for foreign investment.
 The American action clears the way for additional compensation payments from Libya to the families of 270 people killed when Libyan terrorists blew up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988.
 Most of the families have been pressing the administration to meet the deadlines of their agreement on compensation with the Libyan government, which had agreed to make the payments and dismantle its banned weapons programs as long as the United States reciprocated by lifting its sanctions by Sept. 22.
 The White House announcement of the Libya steps was low key, issued in written statements. But administration spokesmen said Libya's agreement of last September to disarm in return for improved relations was an example of Mr. Bush's belief in diplomacy to solve problems.
 ''Looking back over those nine months, I think we've seen some significant actions taken,'' said Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman. He cited steps including Libya's signing of various protocols on nuclear weapons and its destruction of munitions.
 He said Libya had also pledged ''to halt military trade with countries of proliferation concern and increased our understanding of the global black market in the world's most dangerous technologies.''
 Some administration officials say Libya's steps to help the United States investigate the black market in banned weapons and weapon materials have been the greatest dividend of its changed behavior. With Libya's help, the United States uncovered links among Pakistan, North Korea, Iran and other countries on unconventional arms.
 With the lifting of most economic sanctions, the way is clear for American oil companies to try to secure contracts or to revive previous contracts for Libya's vast oil reserves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); ASSASSINATION (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); AIRLINES (69%); AIR SERVICE (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Arms Sales Abroad; Airlines and Airplanes; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Pan American World Airways Inc

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Libya; Libya; Lockerbie (Scotland)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



449 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: How Tax Cuts Feed the Beast

BYLINE: By Daniel Shaviro. 
Daniel Shaviro is a professor of law at New York University and the author of ''Who Should Pay for Medicare?''

 BODY:
On the campaign trail, President Bush is busy telling voters that he wants to keep making government ''smaller and more efficient'' and that his opponent, John Kerry, wants a return to the days of big government. Forget the profligate spending of the past four years, he seems to suggest; instead, think of the many tax cuts that have been pushed through and how in time, as the saying goes, they will ''starve the beast.''
 But in fact the Bush tax cuts will do nothing of the kind. Counterintuitive though it may seem, they will inevitably end up increasing the size of government. 
 When we talk about ''big government,'' we shouldn't be talking simply about how many agencies are in Washington or how many employees they have. Rather, we should consider government's effects on society as a whole. If the government were to hire a lot of employees to redistribute wealth, everyone would agree that government had grown. But if the government instead used regulation for the same purpose, it might have fewer bureaucrats but it would not be smaller -- it would simply have outsourced its ''big government'' activity by making private workers subject to new government authority. 
 In the same way, tax cuts can be used in lieu of spending to redistribute wealth and shape the economy. And, intentionally or not, that is exactly what the Mr. Bush is doing.
 Two important points about the country's fiscal system help to make this clear. The first is that Washington has historically engaged in immense wealth redistribution from younger to older generations, mainly through Social Security and Medicare. Those programs' benefits were essentially provided free to the first groups of eligible retirees (in the 1930's for Social Security and the 1960's for Medicare), and then expanded over the years without the government's demanding matching contributions from recipients. The younger generations keep having to pick up the tab for the older generations' expanding benefits.
 The second major point is that, as even the president's 2005 budget admits, our current tax and spending policies are unsustainable. We face a long-term fiscal gap that is almost unimaginable: the total difference between the cost of all promised benefits and the revenues to pay for them is about $70 trillion. 
 The root causes of this gap are that Americans are living longer and that health care costs are growing far faster than inflation, making Social Security and Medicare more expensive. But the Bush administration has added immensely to the gap: the Medicare prescription drug benefit enacted last year amounts to a $16.6 trillion increase over the very long term, according to the Medicare trustees. That is a straight tax increase on future generations.
 Against this background, how should we think about the huge Bush tax cuts? They greatly increase the already huge redistribution of wealth from younger to older generations, because the younger generations will have to pay off the bonds that are being floated to finance the current federal spending, as well as the Social Security and Medicare expenses of older generations. On top of this, the Bush tax cuts are likely over time to increase, not reduce, government's effect on the economy. 
 The growing federal debt is virtually certain to lead to offsetting tax increases down the road. Does anyone really believe that in 10 years, when Social Security and Medicare benefits are imminently threatened, Congress will not try to increase revenues to keep the benefits flowing a bit longer?
 The increased fiscal gap also makes future government policy far less predictable. Having a looming debt of that size will stir every interest group in Washington to try to influence future policy. It won't be possible to take any government commitment for granted for more than a few years. With even Social Security and Medicare likely to be on the chopping block eventually, no group or lobby will be able to rely on political inertia to protect what it now has. That is an enviable state for members of Congress set on gaining campaign funds, but a worrisome situation for the rest of us. 
 The Bush tax cuts add up to greater wealth redistribution, a greater likelihood of future tax increases, and greater uncertainty about what Washington will do to keep its programs going. Sounds like big government to me. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Daniel (Prof) Shaviro; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



450 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Small Business; THE ECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Where Do The Jobs Come From?

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH says he loves small business, and small-business owners are overwhelmingly on his side in the election. But entrepreneurs are not yet giving Mr. Bush the one thing he needs the most: a surge in jobs.
 For nearly 20 years now, political leaders of all stripes have taken it as gospel truth that small companies are responsible for about two-thirds of all new jobs created in the United States. (Senator John Kerry, who is as enthusiastic a small-business cheerleader as his opponent, outdoes him on this score, crediting the sector with 75 percent of all new jobs.)
 First proclaimed in the mid-80's by David Birch, at the time a consultant and lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the assertion always obscured major distinctions between small companies with limited ambitions and new companies based on novel ideas or technology. 
 An abundance of evidence suggests that fast-growing young companies -- from up-start retailers to Internet stars like Google -- do indeed account for a very large part of employment growth. There is also evidence, though not definitive, that small companies have shed fewer workers over the last four years than large corporations.
 But even in the more select group of fast-growing start-ups, the small-business dynamo is not what it was during the height of the economic boom. Venture capital funding is a small fraction of what it was before the stock market bubble burst in 2000. Information and technology companies have yet to recover from the dot-com bust. And even fast-growing small companies remain extremely cautious in how they add workers.
 Consider Brian Le Gette and Ron L. Wilson II, who co-founded a quirky but booming design company in Baltimore called 180s. Fresh out of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1997, the two built a business on the reinvention of familiar products -- making earmuffs that are light enough to be both hip and effective for athletes; gloves that can be warmed by blowing into a special conduit; sunglasses that adhere to the bridge of a person's nose.
 But even as sales approach $50 million this year, Mr. Le Gette is keeping his work force lean. He outsources all manufacturing and distribution, hiring only ''sharpshooters'' with specialized experience in areas like design, finance or marketing. Last year, the company added fewer than 30 people, bringing the total number of employees to 100, and Mr. Le Gette plans to add even fewer people next year.
 ''We anticipate lower hiring,'' Mr. Le Gette said. ''You get into the $60-million range, and you don't need as many people per million of sales. There's an economy of scale and scope at that level.''
 Does that mean that the small-business job machine is a myth? The issue is important, because political leaders in both parties have tried to justify a wide range of policies by appealing to the needs of small-business owners.
 President Bush pushed through generous tax breaks that allowed small companies to write off their investment in new equipment. Partly at the behest of small-business lobbying groups, Mr. Bush has pushed hard for eliminating inheritance taxes. The Bush administration has also rolled back Clinton-era regulations on workplace safety, particularly ergonomic rules for people who work at keyboards, and has tried to revise overtime regulations.
 But small companies and big corporations were all shedding jobs from 2001 through most of 2003, and they are still cautious about hiring.
 Overall, the percentage of people who work at small companies has remained roughly constant over the last decade, which would seem at odds with an economy where small companies account for the vast bulk of new jobs.
 According to the Census Bureau, employment at smaller companies actually climbed more slowly than at large corporations between 1990 and 2001, the most recent year for which data is available. The number of people working at companies with 20 to 100 employees climbed to 20.3 million from 17.7 million, about 13 percent over the 11-year period. But the number of people at companies with more than 500 employees climbed to 57 million from 43 million -- an increase of 32 percent.
 But some analysts say such comparisons miss a key issue: they argue that job creation comes from what Mr. Birch once described as ''gazelle'' companies -- young enterprises with pioneering ideas that quickly grow into big companies. A company like Google, which did not exist 10 years ago, already shows up in government statistics as a large corporation.
 ''The key issue isn't the size of the company but its age,'' said Zoltan J. Acs, dean of the University of Baltimore's Merrick School of Business, who has studied the issue closely.
 ''What we know for certain is that much of the growth comes from young companies,'' Mr. Acs said. Based on an intensive analysis of job flows in 1996, Mr. Acs found that most of the growth in employment came from new companies or new establishments at existing companies. Over the long-term, Mr. Acs estimated, about half of all new jobs come from fast-growing new companies and the other half comes from expansion at existing companies.
 There are differences when looking beyond the simple question of size, which is apparent in a recent study by Cordelia Okolie, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Ms. Okolie analyzed data from the spring of 2000, the waning days of the economic boom, in two ways. First, she sorted companies by their size at the start of the quarter, in March. Then, she analyzed the same data but sorted the companies according to what size they were three months later. 
 The first analysis showed that virtually all the job growth seemed to come from companies with fewer than 250 workers. But the second analysis, based on the size of work forces at the end of the quarter, showed that nearly one-third of all additional employment showed up at companies with more than 500 workers.
 Either way, small companies seemed to provide most of the additional jobs. But the real job growth did not come from people with dreams of being small-business owners. It came from people bent on building big companies.
 ''It may not be that the smallest firms create the most jobs per se,'' Ms. Okolie said. ''It may be that the youngest firms create the most jobs. It may be young companies that happen to be innovative and also happen to be small.''
 That is a distinction that neither President Bush nor Senator Kerry tend to emphasize. But the distinction is important in terms of another important issue in the campaign, job quality. Overall, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, average weekly wages are lower at small establishments -- $627 at companies with 20 to 40 employees in 2003, versus $919 a week at companies with 500 employees and $1,079 a week at companies with 1,000 workers or more.
 Likewise, small businesses have been cutting back on health insurance benefits far more than large corporations. According to the latest study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, only 63 percent of companies with fewer than 200 employees offered health insurance benefits, compared with 99 percent of larger companies.
 Both candidates support special tax breaks for small companies. Mr. Kerry has promised $170 million in new money for loans to small businesses; a new ''jobs tax credit'' for small companies that increase their work forces; elimination of capital gains taxes on investments in small companies; and a bigger share of federal contracts for small companies.
 Mr. Kerry also contends that his biggest contribution to small business would be his plan to reduce health insurance costs, which have been rising at double-digit rates for several years.
 That plan, estimated to cost at least $682 billion, would have the federal government underwrite much of the cost of catastrophic health insurance, which the Kerry campaign says will reduce the cost of health insurance premiums by about $1,000 a year.
 Mr. Bush claims to have already increased lending to small business by 50 percent, and he too promises to give small businesses a larger share of federal contracts.
 But the heart of Mr. Bush's appeal to small business is on tax cuts and deregulation. Because the vast majority of small-business owners are taxed on company profits as individual income, Mr. Bush's reduction of individual income tax rates effectively reduced taxes for millions of small companies. On top of that, his last tax package quadrupled the amount of money that small companies could immediately write off on purchases of new equipment.
 Mr. Kerry contends that his health care proposals would greatly reduce one of the most worrying costs to small-business owners and make it easier for them to compete by offering health insurance benefits similar to those of large corporations.
 Small-business owners and executives at large corporations alike are far more likely to support Mr. Bush over Mr. Kerry, who they fear would both raise their taxes and increase regulation.
 That said, Mr. Kerry and the Democrats can point to solid evidence that they would not necessarily be bad for entrepreneurship: new companies had one of their biggest booms ever during the Clinton years.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SLOW BOOM -- Brian Le Gette, center, a co-founder of 180s, a maker of sports products, says he will hire cautiously despite strong growth. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. G11)
 (Illustration by Stephen Doyle)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); RETAILERS (67%) Labor; Small Business

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



451 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: In Harshest Critique Yet, Kerry Attacks Bush Over War in Iraq

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN and ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
Charging President Bush with ''stubborn incompetence'' on the war in Iraq, Senator John Kerry yesterday made his most definitive statement yet that he would not have invaded when Mr. Bush did as he delivered a point-by-point indictment of the administration's Iraq policies.
 ''Invading Iraq has created a crisis of historic proportions, and if we do not change course, there is the prospect of a war with no end in sight,'' Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, told an invited audience of party advocates at New York University.
 ''Today, President Bush tells us that he would do everything all over again, the same way,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''How can he possibly be serious? Is he really saying that if we knew there were no imminent threat, no weapons of mass destruction, no ties to Al Qaeda, the United States should have invaded Iraq? My answer, resoundingly, is no, because a commander in chief's first responsibility is to make a wise and responsible decision to keep America safe.'' 
 While Mr. Kerry said Saddam Hussein ''deserves his own special place in hell,'' he argued, ''we have traded a dictator for a chaos that has left America less secure.''
 The 47-minute speech was Mr. Kerry's most stinging critique to date of what he called Mr. Bush's ''colossal failures of judgment'' on Iraq. Mr. Kerry also laid out, as he has before, four broad steps that he urged Mr. Bush to take immediately: repair alliances, train Iraqi security forces, improve reconstruction and ensure elections. If all that happened, Mr. Kerry said, ''we could begin to withdraw U.S. forces starting next summer, and realistically aim to bring our troops home within the next four years.''
 Mr. Bush's advisers watched the 10 a.m. speech on television at the White House and set to work with him aboard Air Force One at noon to insert a hard-hitting response into the president's remarks at a campaign event in Derry, N.H. 
 ''Forty-three days before the election, my opponent has now settled on a proposal for what to do next,'' Mr. Bush said there, ''and it's exactly what we're currently doing.''
 Mr. Bush attacked his opponent's declaration that he would not have started the war, contrasting it with Mr. Kerry's Aug. 9 statement that he stood by his Senate vote to authorize the use of force.
 ''Today my opponent continued his pattern of twisting in the wind with new contradictions on old positions on Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said in New Hampshire and later in Midtown Manhattan, where he and Mr. Kerry held fund-raisers a few blocks apart.
 ''Incredibly, he now believes our national security would be stronger with Saddam Hussein in power, not in prison. He's saying he prefers the stability of the dictatorship to the hope and security of democracy. I couldn't disagree more and not so long ago, neither did my opponent.''
 In New York, Mr. Bush said the decision to send troops into Iraq was the most difficult one he had made as president but added, ''Knowing what I know today, I would have made the same decision.''
 The heated exchange opened a week when Iraq is again expected to dominate the campaign debate, with the president set to deliver his annual address to the United Nations on Tuesday, and the Iraqi prime minister, Ayad Allawi, arriving in Washington for his first official visit on Wednesday.
 Mr. Kerry, who had promised to focus in the campaign's final stretch on health care and the economy rather than the Republicans' stronghold, national security, focused on the deteriorating situation in Iraq as he delivered his third major speech on the subject in three weeks.
 With polls showing Mr. Bush holding a significant advantage on both Iraq and terrorism, Mr. Kerry is trying to turn the discussion from the ground that Mr. Bush wants to fight on -- the wisdom of deposing Mr. Hussein -- to the turf where he believes he has the upper hand: the question of how Iraq has fared since the dictator fled his palaces.
 Mr. Kerry is also trying to tie the issues together in an attack on the Bush administration's credibility, part of his new campaign theme about the president's ''wrong choices'' and the need for a ''new direction.''
 In an interview with David Letterman broadcast Monday night on the ''Late Show,'' Mr. Kerry was asked directly whether, had he been elected president in 2000, he would have taken the country to war in Iraq. Mr. Kerry said simply, ''No.'' 
 Pressed about whether American troops would be in Iraq now if a Kerry administration had received the same intelligence the Bush administration had, Mr. Kerry said: ''We know now there were no weapons of mass destruction. We know now there was no connection to Al Qaeda. We know there was no imminent threat and under those circumstances. I would not have taken America to war.''
 Joe Lockhart, a senior strategist in the Kerry campaign, said the Democrats ''can swagger and chew gum at the same time'' and plan to fight on two fronts.
 ''We're going to talk about health care tomorrow in Florida,'' Mr. Lockhart told reporters in a conference call. ''We're going to talk about jobs. But Iraq's been taking on a more dominant position because it's becoming clear to the American public how bad things are.''
 Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, made an unusual round of calls to reporters covering the Kerry campaign to talk about the speech, saying the Democrats seemed to be ''grasping'' for new attacks.
 ''I guess with new advisers you obviously get new advice,'' Mr. Bartlett said of Mr. Kerry's newly beefed-up circle of strategists. 
 ''We welcome the debate'' on Iraq, he added. ''You use the old football analogy, where would you like to be playing, on your side of the 50 or theirs? We're playing in their red zone.''
 Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had ''misled, miscalculated and mismanaged every aspect'' of the Iraq war, to the detriment of other terror hot spots. 
 He said that the president had ''offered 23 different rationales for this war,'' which served only to confuse the public, and that the latest reasoning, that Iraq had the capability to develop nuclear weapons, would apply to 35 to 40 countries today.
 ''Is President Bush saying we should invade all of them?'' he asked. ''His miscalculations were not the equivalent of accounting errors, they were colossal failures of judgment.''
 More directly than he has before, Mr. Kerry tied his expanding critique of the Iraq war to his antiwar protests after returning home from Vietnam 35 years ago, saying, ''I saw firsthand what happens when pride or arrogance take over from rational decision-making.'' 
 Citing criticism of the administration's Iraq policy from Senate Republicans like Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, he said, ''We need to turn the page and make a fresh start in Iraq.'' 
 The two men appeared to be describing different countries. Mr. Kerry said Iraq was a place where deaths mounted daily, raw sewage filled the streets, unemployment topped 50 percent and blackouts were routine. Mr. Bush said his administration was working with international partners, rebuilding the country's infrastructure, training Iraqi security forces and preparing for elections that he said would be held in January despite violence. 
 Mr. Bush did not say that large parts of Iraq were controlled by terrorists and extremists, and referred vaguely to violence.
 ''They will behead people in order to shake our will,'' he said. ''They will try to sow chaos and disorder, and try to affect our confidence.''
 The president also accused Mr. Kerry of changing his mind on the question of whether Iraq is part of the war against terrorism. In New York on Monday, Mr. Kerry mentioned Osama bin Laden four times as he argued that the Iraq operation was a distraction from other terror hot spots, but Mr. Bush said his opponent had ''acknowledged that confronting Saddam Hussein was critical to the war on terror.''
 Campaign aides said he was referring to Mr. Kerry's statement on May 15 on Fox News that ''Iraq may not be the war on terror itself, but it is critical to the outcome of the war on terror.''
 Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, seemed gleeful at the engagement, saying, ''The guy seems to have this belief that every time he speaks it's a blank sheet, and he doesn't have to worry about contradictory things he's said in recent days, weeks and months.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about Senator John Kerry's denunciation of President Bush's policies on Iraq referred incorrectly in some copies to the forum President Bush was to address at the United Nations that day. It was the General Assembly, not the Security Council. 
A front-page article on Sept. 21 about Senator John Kerry's denunciation of President Bush's policies on Iraq misstated the date that Mr. Kerry told the Fox News Channel that ''Iraq may not be the war on terror itself, but it is critical to the outcome of the war on terror.'' It was on Dec. 15, 2003 -- not May 15, 2004. (Mr. Kerry made the comment the day after Saddam Hussein was captured, but he did not specifically link Mr. Hussein to the war on terror, as his critics have suggested.)


GRAPHIC: Photos: On a visit to New York, Senator John Kerry addressed a luncheon yesterday at Lincoln Center. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
President Bush, speaking yesterday in New Hampshire, responded to criticism of his administration's Iraq policy made earlier in the day by Senator John Kerry in a foreign-policy speech at New York University. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); AL-QAEDA (68%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Politics and Government; Security and Warning Systems; Elections; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); RICK PERRY (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; Elisabeth Bumiller; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



452 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Warn That U.S. Plan to Divert Billions to Security Could Cut Off Crucial Services

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Iraqi officials in charge of rebuilding their country's shattered and decrepit infrastructure are warning that the Bush administration's plan to divert $3.46 billion from water, sewage, electricity and other reconstruction projects to security could leave many people without the crucial services that generally form the backbone of a stable and functioning democracy.
 Under the plan, which was proposed last week and would require approval by Congress, the money would pay for training and equipping tens of thousands of additional police officers, border patrol agents and Iraqi national guardsmen in an attempt to restore order to a land where lawlessness and violence have replaced Saddam Hussein's repression since the American-led invasion last year.
 But the move comes as a grievous disappointment to Iraqi officials who had already seen the billions once promised them tied up for months by American regulations and planning committees, consumed by administrative overhead and set aside for the enormous costs of ensuring safety for the workers and engineers who will actually build the new sewers, water plants and electrical generators. Of the $18.4 billion that Congress approved last fall for Iraq's reconstruction, only about $1 billion has been spent so far. 
 ''Nobody believes this will benefit Iraq,'' said Kamil N. Chadirji, deputy minister for administration and financial affairs in the Iraqi Ministry of Municipalities and Public Works, which has responsibility for water and sewage projects outside Baghdad.
 ''For a year we have been talking, with beautiful PowerPoint documents, but without a drop of water,'' Mr. Chadirji said, waving a colorful printout that he received from American officials.
 The decision to shift the money, which had been earmarked for rebuilding everything from roads and bridges to telecommunications and the outdated equipment pumping oil, appears to signal an abandonment of the administration's original plan for putting Iraq back on its feet as a functioning nation.
 In the original view, restoring Iraq's physical infrastructure assumed an importance equaled only by the American-led military action in creating a stable democratic country and winning the sympathies of ordinary citizens. Propounded again and again by L. Paul Bremer III, the top American civilian administrator here until an Iraqi government took over on June 28, that approach assumed that once the conduits for electricity, water, sewage, oil and information were in place, an efflorescence of industrial and national institutions would follow.
 But with little actually being built and the deteriorating security situation making it doubtful that anything dramatic would happen if it were, a much more conventional set of nation-building priorities were put in place with the arrival last June of John D. Negroponte, the United States ambassador to Iraq. Those priorities are security, economic development and democracy building.
 Somewhere implicit in the economic peg of this three-legged stool is the concept, much demoted, of physical reconstruction. And even then, said officials at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, the rebuilding is best done not by Americans but by Iraqis, who can not only hone their construction skills but also do the work more cheaply.
 ''It doesn't matter what we build,'' a senior embassy official said in a succinct expression of the new principles. ''In the end, it's got to be an Iraqi solution.''
 ''I feel a lot better about this mission than I did about 'rebuilding Iraq,''' the official said. When asked why, the official said, ''Because this one makes sense.''
 William B. Taylor Jr., director of the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office at the embassy, said the change represented something more akin to a shift in emphasis rather than a complete reordering of priorities.
 ''In the original allocation, the dollar winner, the sector that got the most resources, was electricity,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''Now security is at the top.''
 He said some or all of the diverted financing could be restored if Congress decided to allocate more money to reconstruction in a future budget or if other countries provided donations.
 The shift would take $1.07 billion out of the electricity sector's original allocation of $5.54 billion. Dr. Moayed al-Maayouf, director general for studies and planning at the Iraqi Ministry of Electricity, said he was puzzled that nearly all the cuts in his sector would affect work at power plants -- a technically difficult, long-term affair whose disruption would affect his planning for years.
 Dr. Maayouf said he had not been consulted on the plan, but embassy officials said discussions might have occurred at higher levels in his ministry. In any case, even with the cuts, the ministry should be able to meet its goals for increasing electrical output over the next year, Dr. Maayouf said.
 Clearly the most severe impact would be felt in the area of water and sewage, which would have its budget cut to $2.21 billion from $4.15 billion. With the insurgency in Iraq, the estimated cost of providing security for the projects had already tripled -- from 10 percent to 30 percent of each construction contract -- and had forced dozens of projects to shrink in size or be eliminated.
 Now, Mahmood A. Ahmed, director general of water at the public works ministry, said that of an original list of about 100 projects, he knew of only four that are scheduled to start even in the next few months. 
 Mr. Chadirji, the deputy minister, said fewer than 30 of the original projects, which include municipal drinking water and sewage systems in towns across Iraq, were assured of surviving in the long run.
 ''We tell them, please, the problem is big, and let's work faster,'' Mr. Ahmed said. ''And we must have a result.''
 In another indication of new American priorities in Baghdad, some money was also shifted away from the major public works projects to small-scale initiatives in economic reform, private sector development, agriculture and higher education.
 Mr. Taylor, in a bit of wry humor, explained why water and electricity were tapped for all these programs by citing Willie Sutton, who said that he robbed banks because that was where the money was.
 ''If you're looking for $3.46 billion,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''you can't get it out of health care. Where the money is, is electricity and water.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi families paid boys to clean up garbage and sewage in the Jihad neighborhood of Baghdad on Sunday. The Bush administration wants to reduce the budget for Iraqi municipal services and reconstruction. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); APPROVALS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Security and Warning Systems; Police; Water; Waste Materials and Disposal; Electric Light and Power; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (58%) James Glanz; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004



453 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Wins on Budget, but Gridlock Still Rules Albany

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki, who has been increasingly marginalized by the Legislature in recent years, made it clear on Monday that he is still able to emerge from hibernation and flex his political muscles.
 Using a combination of warnings and behind-the-scenes cajoling, he managed to stop the Democratic-controlled State Assembly from overriding his budget vetoes. But the governor's coup, ultimately, was more of a symbolic victory than a chance to actually get something done in this gridlocked State Capitol. 
 In blocking the override effort, he succeeded in embarrassing his political nemesis, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, in spectacular fashion. But the effort may not even have been necessary, because it is far from certain that the Republican-led State Senate would have joined the Assembly Democrats in overriding Mr. Pataki's vetoes.
 For the better part of a year, Mr. Pataki has been criticized by many in Albany for not going on the offensive earlier to try to bend lawmakers to his will and force them to take action on a whole raft of unresolved policy issues ranging from Medicaid reform to reviving one of the state's main economic development programs, the Empire Zones. 
 ''Of course, stopping something from happening is not a substantive victory,'' said Gerald Benjamin, a political scientist and dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University of New York in New Paltz.
 ''Mr. Silver is diminished, but Mr. Pataki is not necessarily built up or empowered. It is consequential for Mr. Silver, though, because the perception of power has actual impacts on your capacity to use power.''
 It is far easier for a governor to pick off the few votes needed to stop an override attempt than to rally the kind of support needed to get legislation through the Legislature. Many lawmakers questioned why the Assembly seemed unable to count votes before coming back to Albany, leaving the governor an opening he was able to drive a truck through.
 For a time on Monday, the Democrats pinned their hopes for a successful override on a Republican -- Joel M. Miller, an Assemblyman from Poughkeepsie who toyed with joining their override to protect aid for local projects and for higher education spending statewide.
 Then Mr. Miller heard from the Pataki administration. ''This was the most unpleasant day that I ever had in Albany,'' Assemblyman Miller said Tuesday, explaining why he changed his mind and voted against the override. ''The bottom line is that we are at the point where we are at because the governor was not engaged to the extent he might have been earlier. And that is hindsight.''
 Mr. Miller said that, after the first three override votes failed Monday night, an aide to the governor tried to allay the concerns of Republican Assembly members who were worried about blocking money for their home districts before Election Day by promising to release funding for libraries in the coming weeks.
 An aide to Mr. Pataki described Monday's events -- during which Mr. Silver fell one vote shy of the 100 votes necessary to override most of Mr. Pataki's 195 budget vetoes -- as another in a string of costly defeats for an Assembly speaker arguably weakened by scandals among his members and primary-day setbacks.
 And a spokesman for the governor, Kevin C. Quinn, said: ''The Assembly leadership's failure yesterday signifies that the seeds of reform have been planted. Rank-and-file members of the State Assembly made history by acting on principle and making their voices heard.''
 On Tuesday, the governor himself, at an appearance in western New York, said he was pleased with the outcome, saying he had let lawmakers know he thought the budget they passed was too expensive and included too few reforms. But Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester County, said he would like to know about any promises or threats the governor or his aides might have made. 
 If the governor was able to batter his political opponent, though, the end result was familiar for Albany: stasis. The vetoes stood, but Mr. Pataki's agenda remained undone. And the governor himself made it clear just how much more he and the Legislature could have accomplished, releasing on Monday a ''Top 10'' list of items he said the Assembly should have taken up. 
 The list included a revision of the state's capital punishment law, especially since two police detectives were recently slain on duty in Brooklyn; an overhaul of the so-called Rockefeller drug laws, which all sides agree are unduly harsh; and an agreement on a law to expand the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VETO (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); MEDICAID (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) Politics and Government

PERSON: Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



454 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Legal Loophole Inflates Profits In Student Loans

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The federal government is paying hundreds of millions of dollars in unnecessary subsidies to student loan companies even though the Bush administration has the authority to cut them off immediately, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office.
 For the last two years, student loan companies have been taking vigorous advantage of a loophole in federal law to receive big subsidies that Congress tried to retire more than a decade ago. As lenders have stepped up the practice, billing the government for more than three times as much as they did just three years ago, the Education Department has maintained that there is little it can do to stop them soon.
 But the department has significantly more authority than it has chosen to use, the accountability office said yesterday, prompting members of Congress to accuse education officials of a costly neglect. This year alone, the subsidies could cost the government nearly $1 billion that many lawmakers, Democrats and Republicans alike, say should go directly to students. 
 ''The report makes it clear that the department is sitting on its hands while billions of dollars are being diverted away from higher education programs to the banks,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, the Maryland Democrat who requested the study with Representative Dale E. Kildee, a Democrat from Michigan. ''Every day that goes by more taxpayer dollars get drained.''
 In a rebuttal to the report, the department agreed that the subsidies, guaranteeing student loan companies a 9.5 interest rate when students pay less than 3.4 percent, should be ''scaled back considerably.'' But it continued to dispute the findings that it could move immediately to close the loopholes, saying that any rules it put forward would take years to put in place. 
 ''Do we have a situation here that falls into a situation of a national emergency?'' said Brian W. Jones, the department's general counsel, referring to what he described as the legal standard that must be met before it can change a regulation without a lengthy public process. ''We just didn't think that that's warranted. There are not the kind of calamitous circumstances the courts have required.''
 The department said that Congress could solve the problem far more quickly. But Congress is far from doing so. Though the House overwhelmingly passed an amendment two weeks ago to halt the subsidies for a year, the Senate is still wrestling with one of its own. The president's budget also includes a proposal to curtail future payments, but lenders have been amassing huge loan portfolios over the last three years with little interference from the federal government, and their actions could ensure them the 9.5 percent guarantee for years to come. 
 In fact, these subsidies have already begun consuming a disproportionate share of the nation's financial aid dollars. Although loans carrying the 9.5 subsidy rate account for no more than 8 percent of the Federal Family Education Loan Program, they have soaked up 78 percent of all subsidies paid to lenders under the program in the current fiscal year, the report found.
 What is more, much of the growth in these subsidized loans has come from a single lender, Nelnet. At the close of 2002, for example, Nelnet, one of the nation's largest student loan companies, held a little more than $375 million in loans carrying the 9.5 percent guarantee that Congress had tried to eliminate more than a decade ago, federal records show. Through some creative financing techniques, Nelnet had managed to increase its holdings to nearly $3.5 billion by June of this year, leading some members of Congress to question whether the companies' actions were legal.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who sought to cut back on lender payments more than a decade ago, called upon the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday to investigate Nelnet for using the subsidies to mislead its investors, manipulate the market and profit from insider trading. 
 The accusation stems from a brief exchange of letters between Nelnet and the department. In May 2003, Nelnet essentially alerted the department that it intended to expand its portfolio of loans carrying the subsidy rate Congress had intended to retire. More than a year passed before the department responded with a terse, two-paragraph letter that merely seemed to refer Nelnet back to the regulations on which it had sought guidance. 
 Within days, Nelnet put out a press release, saying that it had received a satisfactory resolution of its questions and would start counting the subsidies as income. Almost immediately, the company's stock started to rise, from a one-year low of about $17 on July 2, 2004, the day it put out the release, to more than $23 in late August and September. As the company's fortunes rose, many of its highest ranking executives and board members, including Don R. Bouc, its president, sold off millions of dollars in stock.
 What the company did not disclose, however, was that the department said it never specifically approved of Nelnet's strategy of amassing more loans carrying the 9.5 percent guarantee. 
 The department does not say that Nelnet's actions were improper. Indeed, it says that because of a precedent set under the Clinton administration that it continues to follow today, lenders can generally expand their holdings of loans carrying a 9.5 percent guarantee. But, the department points out, that does not mean that it gave Nelnet a nod of approval, either. 
 ''We don't just tend to bless an action on the basis of someone else's self-interested characterization of the facts,'' said Mr. Jones of the department, referring to the correspondence with Nelnet. 
 In Nelnet's defense, Mr. Bouc said that the company had been ''a leader in asking for a change in the provision'' that guarantees a 9.5 percent return, ''with the resulting savings used to expand available student aid.''
 As for the call for an investigation, he said ''we do not know what if anything Senator Kennedy has requested the S.E.C. to look into, and we have no comment.''
 Government payments to student loan companies are a cornerstone of the federal financial aid system, enabling companies to offer students unusually low interest rates while still making their profit margins. But the subsidies at issue began in 1980's when some lenders, particularly states and nonprofits, were granted fixed interest rates of 9.5 percent, guaranteed by the government regardless of what students paid. 
 Congress eliminated the guarantee by 1993, eventually moving to a system that is more closely tied to the market, but it allowed some lenders to keep collecting the higher interest rates on money they had already raised. What Congress did not anticipate was that interest rates would fall so low, making the promise of a 9.5 percent return a potential windfall in a market where students are paying less than 3.4 percent in interest on their loans. 
 Moreover, some of the lenders who originally qualified for the guarantee have been converted into, or have been subsumed by, profit-making companies like Nelnet, putting greater emphasis on the search for profits. According to the report, the guarantees have given lenders at least $1.7 billion more in federal subsidies than they might have received otherwise, and most of that has come in the last few years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); LAWYERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Credit; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%) Education Department (US); Government Accountability Office

PERSON: DALE E KILDEE (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%) Greg Winter; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



455 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Safety First

BYLINE: By James Dobbins. 
James Dobbins, director of the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the RAND Corporation, was special envoy for the Clinton and Bush administrations on reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo and Somalia.

 BODY:
Last week, the Bush administration announced plans to change how it will spend nearly 20 percent of the $18.4 billion in approved aid for Iraq. The money will be shifted from rebuilding infrastructure to security, from capital improvements to employment generation, and from physical construction to social engineering projects. If these priorities had been adopted sooner, the situation in Iraq would probably be better than it is today.
 Administration officials have explained that deteriorating security requires increased efforts to train and equip Iraqi police and military forces, and makes the protection of large construction projects difficult. They have also expressed the need for programs to get young Iraqi men off the streets and employed. 
 And indeed, America's plans to focus aid on modernizing Iraq's electric grid, sewage systems and communications infrastructure at American taxpayers' expense have been an aberration -- out of keeping with recent American nation-building experience in places like Bosnia, Haiti, and Kosovo and with post-World War II strategies for democratizing Germany and Japan. 
 The object of nation-building is to return power to a competent, responsible and representative local government as soon as possible. 
 In a country like Iraq where the governmental structure has collapsed, the first priority is to establish public security. Second is to begin rebuilding the local structures for governance. Third is to create an environment in which basic commerce can occur -- where people can buy and sell goods and services and get paid in a stable currency. Fourth is to promote political reforms, stimulate the growth of civil society, build political parties and a free press, prepare for elections and organize representative government. Fifth, and last, is improving roads, bridges, electricity, water, telephones and the rest.
 This last category of spending normally comes last because such projects take a long time to complete and the payoff on investment is very slow. These projects are also very expensive, far more than other objectives. And unlike investments in other sectors, reconstruction projects are ultimately profitable and can normally pay for themselves. That is why money for large-scale construction projects routinely comes from loans financed through the World Bank or regional development banks, not from grants by donor governments. 
 In preparing for the occupation of Iraq, the administration chose to transfer responsibility for Iraqi reconstruction from the State Department and the Agency for International Development to the Defense Department and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. 
 The Defense Department brought a perspective to the tasks of nation-building that reflected its own experiences in building military bases and procuring weapons systems, which led it to largely ignore recent and historical experiences with nation-building. Instead, the Pentagon focused more on hardware than software, on improving infrastructure rather than social structures. It also relied more on large American military contractors than on Iraqi contractors and smaller nonprofit groups specializing in political transformation. 
 Giving first priority to improving electricity and sewage services, and second priority to political parties and elections was inconsistent with precedents set like Bosnia, Kosovo and even Afghanistan. Critical of earlier efforts in the Balkans, in particular, and frustrated with the slow progress being made in Afghanistan, the Bush administration used as its model the very successful American occupations and transformations of Germany and Japan, and upon the Marshall Plan in Europe. 
 But administration officials fundamentally misread the lessons of nation-building at the end of World War II. In Germany and Japan, the United States had put in place political reforms that today remain the underpinnings of democracy in both countries, before it provided substantial economic aid, beyond basic humanitarian assistance. 
 The Marshall Plan did not start in Germany until 1948, and Japan never received any Marshall Plan assistance. Germany's economic takeoff came only after its democratic reforms had been carried out, and Japan's early prosperity derived from local American procurement connected with the Korean War beginning in the early 1950's. In both, political transformation preceded economic transformation. Democracy preceded prosperity. 
 The administration's plan to shift aid from large construction projects to security, employment and social reform is welcome, not simply because it deals with the deteriorating security situation, but because it better helps the nation become secure and democratic. A secure and democratic Iraq will have no difficulty persuading others to help it rebuild. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMIES (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); POLITICS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); TERRORISM (59%) Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Security and Warning Systems; Politics and Government; Terrorism; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Rand Corp

PERSON: James Dobbins; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); HAITI (79%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (77%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



456 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Getting Out the Vote: One Professor Insists Upon It

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

DATELINE: MADISON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Merrill Skaggs has taught American literature at Drew University for four decades, but it wasn't until August that she became something of a campus celebrity.
 Professor Skaggs, a gentle-spoken 66-year-old, sent out a facultywide e-mail message announcing that she planned to make voting a class requirement. She urged other faculty members to do the same.
 ''I will explain this move by reminding my students that we not only study the forces that shape our American culture,'' Professor Skaggs wrote, ''but also participate in shaping the culture as well.'' 
 Responses shot back from philosophers, Far East specialists, Freud scholars and economic determinists -- overwhelmingly against the plan. 
 ''The idea was called totalitarian,'' said Professor Skaggs, who came by it after attending a conference over the summer and learning that only about one-third of college-age students vote. 
 She was not swayed by the totalitarian argument. ''That's just what I spot as a big word to shut off argument,'' she said. ''There's a difference between a totalitarian country and classroom. All classrooms have requirements, but you can get out of a classroom if you want; it's an intellectual choice. That all written work come in on time is mandated, and that could be considered a harsher requirement than voting for the population concerned.'' 
 When students arrived for Drew's fall semester, the requirement became a hot topic and the subject of a front-page article in The Acorn, the campus newspaper.
 Many critics, including Drew's president, Thomas H. Kean, suggested that though Professor Skaggs's ends were admirable, the method was not.
 Mr. Kean, the former governor of New Jersey and more recently the chairman of the 9/11 commission, remarked: ''I've been trying to encourage people to vote, particularly young people. I've tried to do about every single thing, but this is a touch over the top.''
 Among the suggestions for tweaks to Professor Skaggs's plan were that she not make voting a requirement but create occasions to talk about the election in class. Professor Skaggs, who is coy about which candidate she favors in the presidential election but says she is a Quaker who opposed the Iraq war, did not see this as a workable replacement to a straightforward requirement. 
 ''A professor has no business expressing loves and hates in the classroom. That's propaganda, not education -- and I'm not sure I can trust myself to be totally neutral anyway.'' she said ''Besides, that's easier in a class like political science. I don't really have a whole lot of threads I can take from 150 years ago that allow me to manage to talk about today's election.'' 
 A self-described creature of the 1960's, Professor Skaggs said that she went to Selma, Ala., with students during the civil rights demonstrations and helped picket to integrate a barbershop in New Jersey that refused to serve black customers. But then came two children, a term as a dean at Drew's graduate seminary and a stint as head of the faculty senate. 
 ''Being a dean pretty much scotched my activism,'' she said. ''Something about being in administration makes you not want to argue. And when I was chair of the faculty senate, that was as much politics as I wanted. Being political is not foreign, but it's certainly not habitual.'' 
 Tom Harris, a university spokesman, said this was the first large-scale intellectual brawl that Ms. Skaggs has started in his 12 years at Drew. 
 Bahram M. Rajaee, a spokesman for the American Political Science Association in Washington, said this particular debate about making voting a class requirement has never come up in his organization.
 Many at Drew are uneasy about Professor Skaggs's proposal. ''Whether or not they vote is confidential information,'' said Fred Curtis, an economics professor.
 ''Considering my specialty,'' said Catherine Keyser, a political science professor with a focus on China, ''we don't often have debates about voting. But citizens have the right not to vote here.'' 
 Paulo Cucci, vice president and dean of the college, is also against the requirement.
 Swayed by the mounting disagreement and the prospect of legal challenges, Professor Skaggs scaled back the requirement before school began. Framing the requirement in the vocabulary of the experiential learning that the school champions, Professor Skaggs said students would be required only to enter the voting booth; if they wished, they did not have to pull the lever. Students who are not American citizens would get a pass on the requirement. 
 Professor Skaggs said the penalty for failing to enter the voting booth, which would be done on the honor system, would probably be ''a failure to be generous'' on her part when it comes time to issue grades and ''an inclination to round fractions down.'' 
 Since school started, no students have dropped out of her classes, according to school officials.
 ''When she told us we were required to go into voting booths,'' said Nathaniel Purcell, an English major, ''it wasn't a different reaction than when she said on the 21st the first paper is due.'' Mr. Purcell is of two minds about the requirement. He said that whatever is implemented to increase young voter numbers is admirable, but that he is suspicious of faculty motivations ''with the predilection toward the left in academia.'' 
 Benjamin Weingrod, a sophomore and head of the campus Democrats, said he supports the idea, but along the paths and benches on campus, most others were against it. 
 Even inside the University Center building, Katija Hakim, a senior political science major working a voter registration table, said the requirement runs counter to democratic freedoms. And while it might encourage students to vote, said Dawn DelliSanti, a junior psychology major, the new voters are likely to lack passion. 
 Whether or not everyone is honest about entering the voting booth, Professor Skaggs already considers her policy a winner. ''I want to provoke discussion among the students,'' she said, ''and the provocation that works best with my students is requirements.''
 Besides, she added: ''Everyone loves to fight. We may have more.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Merrill Skaggs, right, a literature professor who made voting a class requirement, with three of her students at Drew University. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); POLITICS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); IRAQ WAR (62%) Colleges and Universities; Elections; Voting Requirements and Voters

ORGANIZATION: Drew University

PERSON: Marek Fuchs; Merrill (Prof) Skaggs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



457 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: August Home Construction Rose to High Level for Year

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Home construction in the United States unexpectedly increased in August to match the highest level of the year as mortgage rates fell, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Building permits declined.
 Housing starts rose 0.6 percent to a 2 million annual rate, after a 1.988 million pace in July, the Commerce Department said. The August total matched March as the highest of the year so far. 
 Construction permits, a sign of future activity, dropped 5.5 percent, to a 1.952 million annual pace.
 Construction lags home sales, so it may be several months before the declines in sales in June and July show up in fewer starts. A measure of the inventory of homes for sale increased to the highest since February 2003, according to recent data.
 Starts of single-family homes rose 0.4 percent in August, to a rate of 1.667 million units, after a 1.66 million pace a month earlier. Starts of multifamily dwellings rose 1.5 percent, to a 333,000 annual rate.
 By region, housing starts rose 1 percent in the South, to 907,000 at an annual pace. They rose 4.8 percent in the Midwest, to 370,000. They were up 6.5 percent in the Northeast, to 196,000, the highest since February 1990. But they fell 4.7 percent in the West, to 527,000.
 Builder backlogs that are higher than a year ago will underpin housing and help contribute to economic growth, economists said. Moves by the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates since June have yet to lead to higher mortgage rates, which are tied to longer-term Treasury securities.
 The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate has declined about a half percentage point since June 30, when policy makers raised the overnight bank rate for the first time in a year. Yesterday, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee raised the rate for the third time this year.
 The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 5.75 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac, a purchaser of home loans.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.AugustStarts: 2.000Permits: 1.952Graph tracks permits and starts from March 2003 through August 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING STARTS (94%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%) Housing; Housing Starts; Building (Construction); Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



458 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Temptation to Look (and to Look Away)

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
Inspired by the notorious 1928 pornographic novel by Georges Bataille, the patron saint of postmodernism, Andrew Repasky McElhinney's ''Georges Bataille's Story of the Eye'' is a genuine independent film, with no commercial prospects and no economic reason for being. It is a strange, beautiful, disturbing and at times literally painful work, an original and distinctive expression by a gifted young Philadelphia-based filmmaker who here confirms the talent he displayed in his 2001 film, ''A Chronicle of Corpses.''
 If Bataille's novel was an attempt to write that which should not be written -- it is his work that introduced the notion of transgression, the violent, ecstatic breaking of taboos that became so important to postmodern thinkers like Michel Foucault and Susan Sontag -- Mr. McElhinney's film is an attempt to show that which should not be shown. That means hard-core sex, performed in all the possible permutations by a fearless young cast. 
 Shot on digital video, ''Story of the Eye'' takes place largely in an old, abandoned house, where the sexual partners get together wordlessly, performing their couplings in a dreamlike daze, as if they were hypnotized by the acts in which they are engaged. The lighting is bright, the colors highly saturated, giving the film an almost clinical look (and indeed, it begins with a long clip of childbirth, apparently lifted from a medical film). 
 Though a narrator briefly intones a few sentences about Bataille and his work, there is no dialogue among the principals. Words have been banished from this privileged space, where, true to the work's title, the eye is the protagonist. We look, but we also look away, and Mr. McElhinney wants to make us aware of our conflicting impulses. Every spectator will have his or her own limits, and when we instinctively glance away, we learn where those limits are. 
 Mr. McElhinney has also presented ''Story of the Eye'' as a video installation in art galleries, with monitors positioned so that spectators watching one screen can also watch the spectators watching another. Something similar happens even in the screening room, as eyes diverted from the screen encounter other eyes, also looking away in the dark. 
 Darkness finally settles over the film itself, when, after a dramatic climax that is also a sexual one, the screen goes black and the soundtrack swells with an electronic whine. At this point, Mr. McElhinney dares to attack his audience physically, bringing the whine up to mildly painful levels, as if he were trying to drive spectators from the theater (an invitation that many audience members will immediately accept). This is transgression in a literal sense, an act of aggression that Bataille would no doubt have appreciated. This is not a movie for passive consumption, but a film that bites back. 
 The final image in ''Story of the Eye,'' which opens today at the Pioneer Two Boots Theater in the East Village, is a simple set of color bars: the test pattern used by technicians to balance color values. It is a reminder that for all the aggressive, almost physical power of these images, they are, after all, patterns of light bouncing off a blank screen. In the terms established by ''Story of the Eye,'' the bars represent a happy ending. We have survived, and now we can see clearly, the eye reposing in a glowing field of color without content, light without shadow. 

GEORGES BATAILLE'S STORY OF THE EYE

Produced and directed by Andrew Rapasky McElhinney; written by Mr. McElhinney, Bosco Younger, Les Rek, Dan Buskirk, Courtney Shea, Melissa Elizabeth Forgione, Sean Timothy Sexton and Telly, inspired by Louis Feuillade and Stephen Sayadian; directors of photography, Mr. Buskirk, Mr. Rek and Mr. Younger; edited by Charlie Mackie; music by Paul David Bergel; released by ARM/Cinema. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 81 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Melissa Elizabeth Forgione, Querelle Haynes, Sean Timothy Sexton, Courtney Shea, Claude Barrington White and Kevin Mitchell Martin (Narrator).


CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A credits listing yesterday with a film review of ''Georges Bataille's Story of the Eye'' omitted part of the name of the production company. It is ARM/Cinema 25, not ARM/Cinema. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Querelle Haynes in ''Georges Bataille's Story of the Eye,'' directed by Andrew Repasky McElhinney. (Photo by ARM/Cinema 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Andrew Repasky Mcelhinney; Georges Bataille

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



459 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Man in the News; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 914 words

PERSON: Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono

HEADLINE: A Cautious Reformer as Indonesia's Next President; Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Indonesia's next president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, moved swiftly up the military ranks during the authoritarian rule of Gen. Suharto and then played a back-seat role in the undoing of that government. 
 He is considered a steady, broadly educated man who many here believe is the first person with a suitable background and sufficient training to become president since the country's transition to democracy began six years ago. 
 There is also much that is unknown about the general. He supports the secular tradition of Indonesia, where most people are Muslim. But how he will deal with the thorny issues of Islam and terrorism -- a subject on which the government and Muslim groups have remained largely silent so far -- remains unclear. 
 With more than half of the votes counted after the election on Monday, results showed that General Yudhoyono, 55, won a convincing victory over the incumbent, Megawati Sukarnoputri. With more than 77 million votes counted Tuesday night, General Yudhoyono had won 60 percent and Mrs. Megawati 39 percent, according to the Indonesian election commission. 
 In contrast to Mrs. Megawati, who took little interest in government but reveled in the pomp of being head of state, General Yudhoyono will immerse himself in details and is likely to play down the role of singular leader, an army colleague said. 
 ''He believes in the organization,'' said the colleague, a former general, Agus Widjojo, who was General Yudhoyono's boss in the military. ''He's aware that he's only one element in the decision-making process. He doesn't come from one of those charismatic, hero styles of leadership.'' 
 General Yudhoyono must wait for Mrs. Megawati to concede defeat before claiming victory, a process that may be several days away. He stayed closeted at his home in Bogor, outside Jakarta, on Tuesday, meeting with his running mate, Jusuf Kalla, and campaign officials. 
 The general faces big problems: one of the worst-performing economies in the vibrant Asian region, rampant corruption and a homegrown terror network that the police say may be poised for an attack. 
 As coordinating minister for security under Mrs. Megawati, he was more outspoken than many in the government on the threat of terrorism and the nature of Jemaah Islamiyah, the radical Islamic group that has been blamed for three terror attacks in the past two years. 
 But he was reluctant to push for more stringent measures against the group, said a Western official who dealt with him. Now that he is to become president, he needs to throw such caution aside and not find reasons not to act, the official said.
 General Yudhoyono was born on Sept. 9, 1949, in Pacitan, a small town in east Java that is likened to Dayton, Ohio, by an American friend, Dennis Heffernan, publisher of the Van Zorge Report, a biweekly review of Indonesia's politics and economy. ''A nice clean little town,'' said Mr. Heffernan, who accompanied the general on some campaign swings. 
 After emerging at the top of his class in the military academy in 1973, General Yudhoyono was selected to go to the United States in 1976 for military training at Fort Benning, Ga. 
 That was at the height of the warm relationship between the United States and the Suharto government, which was viewed in Washington at the time as a bulwark against Communism in Southeast Asia. In 1990, he was selected for a yearlong course at the Army Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
 In part because of those two stints in the United States under the International Military Education and Training Program, the Bush administration viewed General Yudhoyono as the best pick of the candidates in the presidential election. 
 The general wants a full resumption of military relations with the United States, General Widjojo said. The training program was stopped more than a decade ago after the Clinton administration objected to human rights abuses by the military under General Suharto. 
 By the mid-1990's, General Yudhoyono and some like-minded colleagues like General Widjojo began to work on a plan called the New Paradigm, which called for the military to step back from its upfront role in civilian affairs. 
 As the crisis around General Suharto's presidency reached a peak in 1998 after the collapse of the Indonesian currency, General Yudhoyono began meeting with one of the country's prominent Muslim leaders, Nurcholish Madjid, to find a way for General Suharto to resign. 
 In a less flattering light, the book ''Indonesian Destinies'' by Theodore Friend describes how General Yudhoyono encouraged a group of Muslim and Christian leaders to look into the bombing of dozens of churches across Indonesia on Christmas Eve of 2000.
 The general, according to the book, acknowledged that the facts of the bombings implicated some ''former colleagues and superiors'' of his. But when the group submitted a draft decree to investigate the matter, the author says General Yudhoyono declined to pursue the matter.
 By all accounts, the general is an avid reader and book buyer. From his bookshelves it is clear that the general prefers serious reading peppered with a splash of light fare. ''Debt of Honor'' by Tom Clancy and ''The World's Most Dangerous Places'' by Robert Young Pelton are among the books in his library. ''On Strategy: A Critical Analysis of the Vietnam War'' by Harry G. Summers and ''Napoleon: How He Did It: The Memoirs of Baron Fain, First Secretary of the Emperor's Cabinet'' are also there.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, campaigning at a stadium in Jakarta in June. Incomplete returns show him winning by a wide margin. (Photo by Jonathan Perugia/Asiaworksphotos.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%) Biographical Information; Elections; Election Results; Politics and Government; Islam; Church-State Relations

SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (94%) Susilo Bambang (Min) Yudhoyono; Megawati Sukarnoputri (Pres); Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (79%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Indonesia

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



460 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions by Hurricane Ivan Send Oil Prices Rising Again

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil prices surpassed $47 a barrel yesterday, and further declines in the nation's supply are expected in the short term as petroleum producers disrupted by Hurricane Ivan continue to regroup.
 Light sweet crude for October delivery settled 75 cents higher at $47.10 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That is $1.60 below the Nymex peak set roughly a month ago, and still far below historical highs when adjusted for inflation. 
 Some 8.5 million barrels of oil production in the Gulf of Mexico have been lost since the beginning of last week and daily output in the region remains 39 percent lower at about 1 million barrels a day, the federal Minerals Management Service said yesterday.
 Delayed oil shipments have taken an additional toll on United States supplies, which normally increase this time of year as gasoline demand tapers off and refiners temporarily shut down to perform maintenance.
 The Energy Department reported last week that commercially available oil supplies declined by about 7 million barrels, leaving inventories at 278.6 million barrels, or 1 percent below the level a year ago.
 While the supply dislocation caused by Hurricane Ivan is expected to be short-lived, analysts said the underlying tightness in global oil markets is not, and that is why prices are rising on every apparent production or delivery snag.
 ''The problem with oil markets is structural,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of PIRA Energy Group in New York.
 One of the major issues is that the amount of excess production available worldwide is about 1 percent of total demand of about 82 million barrels a day, Mr. Goldstein said, leaving little extra room in the event of a prolonged supply interruption.
 As a result, energy traders have been quick to respond to any news that could potentially crimp the flow of oil, even for a short period. For example, the sabotage of Iraqi pipelines by insurgents has caused sporadic export problems and propped up world oil prices.
 On Monday, prices rose after the cash-strapped Russian oil giant Yukos said it would halt some oil exports to China because it could not afford to pay the transport expenses.
 Yukos, which must pay back taxes of more than $7 billion for 2000 and 2001, has unnerved markets all summer with warnings that its production could suffer as a result of its financial troubles.
 The actual amount of exports to be halted by Yukos is about 100,000 barrels a day, a small number. But until private and state-owned oil companies make the investments necessary to increase the world's production and refining capacity, Mr. Goldstein expects even minimal supply problems to send oil prices higher so long as demand keeps rising. Adjusted for inflation, today's prices are about $11 a barrel below the level just before the first Gulf War.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''COMMODITIES'' tracks oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); GASOLINE (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); WEATHER (77%); MINING OUTPUT (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DESERT STORM (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Ivan (Storm)

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



461 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Expensive Gas and Nasty Weather Depress Retail Hopes

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Before tropical storms closed stores and wiped out homes, when people thought the war in Iraq would soon be over, and before gasoline approached $2 a gallon, retailers and researchers were nearly all predicting a bang-up holiday shopping season, starting this Thanksgiving.
 But yesterday, as retailing trade groups and consultants rushed to get out their predictions before anyone else, it was obvious that, within the last couple of months, some expectations had been noticeably lowered, while one group, at least, remained stubbornly optimistic.
 Retail Forward, a market research and management consulting group based in Columbus, Ohio, came out with the cheeriest projection so far: the best Christmas since 1999, with an estimated 6 to 6.5 percent growth from last year. 
 ''The key drag on retail sales last year is gone, namely the lack of job creation,'' said Steve Spiwak, senior economist at Retail Forward. ''The bounceback in the jobs market is bolstering incomes, and that's the key driver of consumer spending, outweighing the impact of gas prices.'' Mr. Spiwak figured in the stock market, ''which certainly flattened after last year's bounceback,'' he said. 
 Nevertheless, he said, ''lagging wealth effects will continue to stoke sales among the more affluent households. Consumers with incomes greater than $100,000 make up about 40 percent of overall retail sales.'' He added that the nation's thriving housing market would continue to fuel sales in the home furnishings and do-it-yourself areas.
 Yet the National Retail Federation, a trade group based in Washington that is known for its sunny perspectives, was more restrained. Yesterday morning, the federation predicted that sales growth during the holiday season would be a moderate 4.5 percent.
 ''Retailers know they will have their work cut out for them this holiday season, but they are up to the challenge,'' said Tracy Mullin, the group's chief executive.
 Asked for her reaction to Retail Forward's rosier projection, Ms. Mullin replied: ''From their lips to God's ears.''
 At the same time, Marshal Cohen, the chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, market consultants in Port Washington, N.Y., said his group was predicting growth in line with last year's 3.7 percent.
 ''Do people have more money to spend on Christmas this year than they did last year?'' he asked. ''We don't think so.'' Mr. Cohen said it was ''a trifle premature'' for a forecast.
 Nevertheless, he predicted that shoppers distracted by presidential politics would delay their shopping at least until after the election. By that time, he said, retailers would be getting nervous and would start putting merchandise on sale, reducing their profits.
 But Mr. Cohen, along with other retailing experts, said that, over the last year, retailers had succeeded in reducing flabby inventory, and predicted that reduced-price selling would not get out of control. ''Profit-wise they'll be O.K.,'' he said. ''But sales volume won't rise much more than it did last year, about 3.7 percent. They're going to do that much better, but it's not going to be great.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worse-than-usual hurricane season kept shoppers away from stores. Brian Poynor boarded up a shop in Panama City Beach, Fla., last week. (Photo by Joe Skipper/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); POLITICS (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Christmas

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%) Retail Forward; National Retail Federation; Npd Group

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon; Marshal Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



462 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Fed Statement and Strong Earnings Reports Lift Shares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday as investors welcomed strong earnings from financial services companies, upbeat economic data and some reassuring news from the Federal Reserve.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 40.04 points, or 0.4 percent, at 10,244.93. The broader gauges were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.10 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,129.30, its highest close since June 30. The Nasdaq composite index gained 13.11 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,921.18, its best finish in two months. 
 The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller-company stocks, was up 6.18 points, or 1.1 percent, at 576.92. 
 The Fed's decision yesterday to raise short-term interest rates by another quarter of a percentage point, to 1.75 percent, did not come as a surprise to the market. The widely expected decision and the statement issued with it were viewed as a signal that the central bank sees continued improvements in the economic outlook and inflation.
 ''I think it's basically a pretty positive statement,'' said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. ''I doubt that this hike, which was widely expected, will have any meaningful impact on the economy, but it will have a positive psychological effect on the market, because it is reassuring the world that the economy is doing better.''
 In economic news, the Commerce Department reported robust housing construction last month. Housing starts rose to an annual rate of two million units, the highest level of activity in five months, and came as economists were expecting a decline. July's housing figures were revised upward.
 Persistently high energy prices continue to weigh on investors. Global supply concerns were increased by the announcement from the Russian oil giant Yukos that it would reduce shipments to China because of financial troubles from its fight with the government over back taxes. Light sweet crude for October delivery settled up 75 cents at $47.10.
 ''The markets seem to be accepting prices over $40 a barrel,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist and senior market strategist at Banc of America Capital Management. ''If they were to move back to $50 and higher we could see some setbacks, but oil prices at these higher levels have not had a major impact in pushing up inflation so far.'' 
 ''The economy, the third quarter, is doing better than many had feared,'' she added. ''We still are in a very early part of the earnings warning season, and we're likely to see some mixed results, but the third-quarter economic performance looks to be quite strong.''
 Lehman Brothers Holdings, the financial services firm, rose $3.73, or 4.9 percent, to $79.75, after it beat expectations with a 5.2 percent rise in third-quarter profits. Revenue improved 12 percent.
 Goldman Sachs added $3.22, to $94.90, after posting a 30 percent jump in profits for the latest quarter, helped by strong growth across its segments. Earnings per share, at $1.74, surpassed the $1.43 forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
 Adobe Systems, the maker of Photoshop and PageMaker software, gained $2.50, or 5.2 percent, to $50.45 -- a 52-week high -- after it reported better-than-expected profits and predicted similar results for the fourth quarter.
 Among decliners, General Mills, the cereal maker, fell 98 cents, to $45.35, after it reported a 19 percent drop in earnings because of higher prices for ingredients and restructuring costs. 
 The company has raised prices of its products to reflect higher commodity prices, but the effect is only now being felt; results for the next quarter are expected to be stronger.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Treasury security prices ended higher yesterday after the Federal Reserve decided to raise interest rates. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note was up 
 5/23, to 101 23/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.04 percent, from 4.06 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.875
High Rate: 1.605
Coupon Yield: 1.629
Low Rate: 1.580
Median Rate: 1.595
Total applied for: $35,260,333
Accepted: $15,068,223
Noncompetitive: $68,487
The four-week bills mature Oct. 21, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); OAO NK YUKOS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



463 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed Statement on Interest Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter point:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 1 3/4 percent.
 The committee believes that even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative and, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. After moderating earlier this year partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly. Despite the rise in energy prices, inflation and inflation expectations have eased in recent months.
 The committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Cathy E. Minehan; Mark W. Olson; Sandra Pianalto; and William Poole.
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 2 3/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



464 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Little Degree Of Difficulty At Utah

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
Stifling yawns, University of Utah quarterback Alex Smith slogs into the Utes' weight room a few minutes before 8 a.m.
 With his white socks pulled to his knees and a morning glaze in his eyes, he stretches and prepares for the grind of a typical day.
 Not only is Smith the high-tech mind behind the Utah football team's innovative offense, but he is an accomplished student who graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics in two years.
 His coaches and teammates say the same intelligence and work ethic Smith brings to the classroom have allowed him to thrive on the field. 
 He is 12-1 as a starter and is the country's third-most-efficient passer. He will be a contender for the Heisman Trophy if the No. 14 Utes (3-0) continue to win. 
 Utah has a seven-game winning streak, the third longest in Division I-A, and plays host to Air Force (2-1) on Saturday afternoon in a Mountain West Conference game. 
 On a recent day, Smith offered a glimpse into the life of a very successful student-athlete. 
 It is a life that involves hours of breaking down game film and some time wading through the sea of laundry in his cramped basement bedroom. 
 Smith immediately faces his toughest one-on-one challenge when he paces around a scale in the Utes' weight room. After coming to Utah at 180 pounds and bulking up to 215 pounds this summer, Smith, who is 6 feet 4 inches, still struggles to keep weight on his frame. He has withered to 200 pounds, 10 below his ideal playing weight.
 Smith winces when the number 203.3 pops up on the scale's red digital display. Matt Balis, Utah's strength coach, barks, ''You need to be 205.''
 Smith's diet would make Dr. Atkins cringe. He has been told to eat foods with as many carbohydrates as possible, which for him means a lot of Kraft macaroni and cheese and $5 pizzas from Little Caesars.
 After grunting through a workout of medicine ball throws and stretches with oversize elastic bands, Smith still weighs 203.3 pounds. So he gulps water, then two vanilla protein shakes. He steps on the scale three minutes later and the number reads 205. He smiles in relief.
 ''Keeping on weight is more stressful than anything else in my life,'' he said. ''If I came in today at 207, they'd want me at 210.''

Living Like a Freshman
 After living in the university dorms for two years, Smith moved off campus.
 From the box of pizza with one stale slice left to the empty case of Ramen noodles, Smith's house has all the trappings of the classic college bachelor pad.
 His home life is as disheveled as his lives as a student and football player are successful. The student with a 3.79 grade point average and the field maestro with a 21-to-4 touchdown-to-interception ratio apologizes profusely as he walks through his messy house.
 ''I'd like to say this is a sign of genius,'' he said.
 There is a sign taped on the kitchen wall pleading with Smith to turn off the iron. After it was left on one day, one of his roommates, Matt Kovacevich, Utah's punter, was burned.
 Smith said he had lost at least five cellphones, and it was not until recently that his parents let him upgrade to a ''big kid's phone,'' one of higher quality.
 Smith's bedroom is messier than his kitchen, with jeans and T-shirts balled up everywhere in piles. Smith said that between football practices and classes, finding time to do laundry was tough.
 ''It was a lot easier when I had a girlfriend,'' he said. ''But I broke up with her before the season started.''
 When asked what happened, he shrugged. ''It wasn't going anywhere,'' he said. ''Plus, it was another responsibility.''

School Comes First
 Smith's next stop is his health economics class, his only class on Wednesdays.
 He is as comfortable in class as on the football field. His father, Doug, is a high school principal as well as a former football coach. (His uncle is John L. Smith, Michigan State's head football coach.) But school always came first, as evidenced by Smith's 64 advanced placement credits, which helped him graduate so quickly.
 As a child, Smith would happily recount everything he learned in class that day to his parents. ''He never had a negative word to say about a teacher,'' Doug Smith said.
 With two years of eligibility remaining at Utah, Smith will leave with a master's degree in economics. 
 That is much to the disappointment of the dean of Utah's business school, who called Chris Hill, Utah's athletic director, to express his wish that Smith pursue his master's in business administration. 
 This semester is Smith's lightest in three years. He is taking three ''real'' courses, and his final three credits will come from two bowling classes and for playing varsity football. 
 Though Smith's older teammates tease him about his academic success by calling him Doogie Howser, he keeps a low profile in class.
 ''Who's he again? Which class is he in?'' Anne Yeagle, Smith's health economics professor, said when a reporter asked about the star football player in the class.

Studying for Football
 Soon after class ends, football study begins. Smith and the Utes' other three quarterbacks gather in a room with the team's quarterbacks coach, Dan Mullen.
 The lights dim and the plays whip by on a screen. It is a different offense, one that is often run with an empty backfield, and it mixes a pass-happy spread offense with the option. It is predicated on aggressiveness and it requires the quarterback to make intricate reads of the defense at the line of scrimmage.
 ''Basically, if you blitz us, we try to score,'' Utah Coach Urban Meyer said.
 In Meyer's first spring practice in 2003, Smith was terrible. ''He was third string and he earned it,'' Meyer said. ''If we had four quarterbacks, he'd have been fourth string.''
 Smith is a bit of a late bloomer. In high school he was so uncoordinated that his father recommended he run cross-country. Smith said that in his freshman year in high school he was the slowest player on the field, thanks to feet that were far too big for his body.
 ''It was like he was club-footed,'' John L. Smith said. ''He was big and clumsy and couldn't run a lick.''
 Alex Smith eventually grew into his body, studied the game with passion, and became a highly regarded quarterback. Still, he spent most of his time at Helix High School in the San Diego area handing off to Reggie Bush, the explosive tailback now starring at Southern California.
 Smith's body continued to mature, as did his mind. He said that he averaged 15 hours a week watching film and that that knowledge led to the precise execution that allowed him to climb the depth charts. He took over for the injured starter Brett Elliot last year.
 ''He's surprised us all,'' John L. Smith said. ''He's developed earlier than all of us expected. We thought he could do these things, but maybe in his fourth or fifth year.''

A Star in Uncle's Offense
 In a bizarre twist, Meyer learned the spread offense from John L. Smith. Three years ago, when Smith coached at Louisville and Meyer at Bowling Green, Meyer traveled to Louisville to learn the offense from John L. Smith's staff. Alex strongly considered attending Louisville, but his uncle told him he would probably not be there much longer.
 So, though he never played for his uncle, Alex Smith has thrived in his uncle's offense.
 ''Funny how things work out, isn't it?'' John L. Smith said. ''Alex is very fortunate to have the coaching staff he does. The offense lends to his capabilities.''
 With a 41-21 victory over Texas A&M to open the season, Utah showed its capabilities. The Aggies were the mostly highly regarded opponent on the Utes' schedule, and an undefeated season would most likely allow Utah, which plays in the Mountain West, to crash the Bowl Championship Series. Though Alex Smith says he does not look that far ahead, the prospect of a B.C.S. game keeps him grinding every day.
 ''If I could dream up a scenario, that would be it,'' he said. ''It's tough to go through conference undefeated, but you can wish for those things.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alex Smith, with Salt Lake City behind him, has led No. 14 Utah to a 3-0 start. (Photo by Jeffrey D. Allred for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 Utah's Alex Smith is rated as the nation's third-most-efficient passer and is 12-1 as a starting quarterback. (Photo by Jeffrey D. Allred for The New York Times)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CYCLING (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); PASTA & NOODLES (66%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Tests and Testing; Summer Games (Olympics); Bicycles and Bicycling; Football

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (96%); INTERNATIONAL CYCLING UNION (59%) International Cycling Union; University of Utah

PERSON: Samuel Abt; Tyler Hamilton; Pete Thamel; Alex Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%) UTAH, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



465 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Banks and the College Loan Loophole

 BODY:
The Bush administration has studiously looked the other way while well-connected lenders have exploited a loophole in the student loan program that will reap them nearly a billion dollars in undeserved subsidies this year alone. Congress, which rakes in contributions from banks and other lenders, was reluctant to even discuss this problem until a public outcry recently made it impossible to avoid. The Education Department has claimed that it lacks the authority to close the loophole unilaterally. But that position was blown away this week in an unusually caustic report by the Government Accountability Office, which outlined the scope of the problem and urged the Education Department to solve it quickly. 
 At issue is a special category of student loans for which the government guarantees the lenders a whopping return of 9.5 percent, even though the prevailing rate charged to students is now less than 3.5 percent. The 9.5 percent loans, backed by tax-exempt bonds, were established when interest rates were high in the 1980's to keep lenders in the college loan business. Congress tried to phase out the high-interest loans in 1993, when it rightly concluded that they were no longer needed, but they have not gone away.
 As interest rates declined, the lenders, abetted by the Education Department, developed a series of accounting tricks that create new 9.5 percent loans essentially out of thin air. This process, sometimes described as cloning, has made the number of 9.5 percent loans balloon and ratcheted up the subsidies that the government must pay. Worse still, recent press accounts suggest that higher-ups in the department may have overruled auditors who tried to put an end to this process. 
 The House voted to end the unfair subsidies temporarily -- and is likely to settle on a permanent solution soon. But the Senate Appropriations Committee ducked the issue last week when it rejected a measure that would have driven a stake through the wasteful program and redirected some of the savings to student aid. By one estimate, even six months' delay in dealing with this problem would cost the taxpayers nearly $3 billion in interest payments. That money should be going to poor and working-class college students -- not to banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT LOANS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%) Colleges and Universities; Editorials; Interest Rates; Credit; Student Loans; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities; Banks and Banking

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%) Education Department (US)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



466 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Transition in China

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Hu Takes Full Power in China as He Gains Control of Military'' (front page, Sept. 20):
 Considering China's economic and military might, which includes a nuclear arsenal and a growing influence over neighboring countries so vital to American interests, the way the power transfer took place now and has taken place in the past makes China a place to worry about down the road. Such closed-door and undemocratic power transfers may erupt in internal strife, with far-reaching repercussions.

Ranjit S. Barot
Livingston, N.J., Sept. 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Politics and Government

PERSON: HU JINTAO (78%) Ranjit S Barot; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



467 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Bank Courts Hispanic Customers in United States

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria said on Tuesday that it would buy a south Texas banking group, Laredo National Bancshares, heating up the race by global banks to serve Hispanics living in the United States. 
 BBVA, as Spain's No. 2 bank is known, said the $850 million purchase would give it access to a potential market of some five million Hispanics in south Texas.
 One of the chief attractions of the Hispanic market in the United States is the flow in remittances from migrants working there to relatives back home-- more than $13.4 billion in 2003, according to Mexico's central bank. 
 ''We are very excited about this transaction because it gives us a top position in one of our priority markets for our U.S. strategy,'' Francisco Gonzalez, chairman and chief executive officer of BBVA, said in a statement from Madrid. ''Step by step, we are firmly moving forward into the U.S. Hispanic market.'' 
 BBVA has so far expanded into the United States mostly through its ownership of BBVA Bancomer, Mexico's largest bank. Bancomer's money transfer business, Bancomer Transfer Services, known as BTS, said it moved 40 percent of remittances to Mexico. In May, BBVA Bancomer also bought a small southern California bank, Valley Bank, for $16.7 million. 
 Laredo claims a market share of 23 percent in the Texas-Mexico border region through its banks, Laredo National Bank and South Texas National Bank, with assets of $3.4 billion and 110,000 customers. Laredo also owns a national mortgage lender.
 Last week, BBVA Bancomer also bought Mexico's largest mortgage finance company, Hipotecaria Nacional, for $375 million. Earlier this year, Hipotecaria Nacional introduced a plan through which migrants in the United States can make mortgage payments on homes in Mexico. 
 Global banks have established a presence in Mexico and are now introducing cross-border services with an eye to making inroads in the Hispanic market in the United States. While handling remittances is often the first step to wooing new immigrants into the banking system, the global banks hope to expand into other services, like credit cards, as family income rises. 
 ''Quite frankly, I think the Spanish banks are very ambitious about their global expansion plans,'' said Mauro Guillen, a management professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''They think the U.S. is a natural place to grow.''Juan Solana, chief economist of Hispanic Business Inc., a publishing and research firm in Santa Barbara, Calif., said, ''There is room for banks in the remittance business because the system to transfer money overseas is very inefficient.'' Mr. Solana said that BBVA is more efficient than American banks in the money transfer business. 
 The Hispanic market is the fastest growing in the United States, with a purchasing power of $700 billion that is expected to grow to $1 trillion by 2010, according to HispanIntelligence, the research division of Hispanic Business. Hispanics typically use fewer banking services than most Americans. Only 65 percent of Hispanics have a checking account, compared with 95 percent of the general population, said BBVA.
 Mr. Solana said that first-generation Hispanics tend to be employed and have large families and more wage earners per family. ''That creates very attractive banking conditions for consumer credit and mortgages,'' he said. ''With two or three wage earners, you have more risk dispersion.'' 
 Among other large banks wooing the Hispanic consumer, Citigroup, which owns Mexico's second-largest bank, Banamex, last month bought First American Bank, a bank based in Bryan, Tex., with 102 branches around the state, to focus on the Mexican-American community. The price was not disclosed. 
 Citgroup also recently introduced a binational credit card that can be paid off on either side of the border. 
 Bank of America bought around 25 percent of Banco Santander Serfin, for $1.6 billion, from Banco Santander Central Hispano of Spain, in 2002 and has used the alliance to design cross-border products, beginning with money transfers through A.T.M.'s. 
 Wells Fargo earlier this month said it would buy First Community Capital Corporation, based in Houston, for $124 million. Wells Fargo has also joined forces with the Mexican subsidiary of HSBC to offer money transfers to Mexico.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Francisco Gonzalez, above, chief of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria of Spain, said acquiring a Texas bank was an important move. Left, a customer in San Fernando, Calif., sent money to Mexico. (Photo by Susan Goldman/Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Cesar Cebolla/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MARKET SHARE (66%); DIVESTITURES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Banks and Banking; Hispanic-Americans; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (92%); LAREDO NATIONAL BANK (54%); TEXAS NATIONAL BANK (SOUTHLAKE, TEXAS) (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Sa; Laredo National Bancshares

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BVA (LSE) (92%); BBVA (NYSE) (92%); BBVA (MCE) (92%); BBVA (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin; Francisco Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (95%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); SPAIN (94%) Spain; Texas

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



468 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE WAR DEBATE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: 2 Iraq Views, 2 Campaigns

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
To hear President Bush and John Kerry argue bitterly in the past two days about the American mission in Iraq is to wonder if they are talking about the same war, or even the same country.
 At the marble podium of the United Nations, Mr. Bush on Tuesday morning described an Iraq that ''has rejoined the community of nations'' and is well on the way to being ''secure, democratic, federal and free'' if the world, and America's allies, do not lose their nerve. It was the kind of declaration that prompts cheers at campaign rallies; at the United Nations, it was greeted with the General Assembly's customary silence. 
 The day before, just two miles to the south, Mr. Kerry spoke of an invasion of Iraq that ''has created a crisis of historic proportions,'' and warned that ''if we do not change course there is the prospect of a war with no end in sight.'' He went on to describe a country that bore no resemblance to the one Mr. Bush portrays, one of bombings, beheadings, rampant unemployment and few allies sharing the burden. 
 It is no accident. Those diametrically opposed images reflect diametrically opposed strategies for the final six weeks of the presidential campaign.
 Mr. Bush and his aides are determined to focus the campaign debate on the decision to liberate Iraq from Saddam Hussein's brutal rule and make the argument that if Mr. Kerry had been in office for the past four years, the dictator would still be in his palace. 
 Mr. Bush moved from the vast hall of the General Assembly, where the wounds of his decision to go to war without explicit Security Council approval are still raw, to the first of three days of meetings with Ayad Allawi, the interim Iraqi prime minister, whose success or failure at converting Iraq to a working democracy may shape Mr. Bush's own legacy.
 Mr. Kerry is equally determined to take the Iraq debate in a different direction -- one that focuses on the here and now, on the ''arrogant and incompetent'' management of the war since Mr. Hussein was ousted. 
 His campaign has decided that its last hope of undercutting the image of Mr. Bush as a competent war leader is to return relentlessly to the questions, as Mr. Kerry puts it, of why ''terrorists are pouring across the border'' into Iraq, why so few of America's allies have joined the effort and why Iran and North Korea have advanced their nuclear programs while the administration has been preoccupied with Iraq. 
 ''The president wants to shift the topic, and I'm not going to let him shift the topic,'' Mr. Kerry said Tuesday afternoon in Florida, responding as quickly to Mr. Bush's speech at the United Nations as Mr. Bush did to Mr. Kerry's speech on Monday. 
 ''The president needs to get to the world of reality,'' Mr. Kerry concluded, a line he is repeating often these days. He is trying to nurture an image in the voters' minds that Mr. Bush has begun to believe his administration's own spin about how well the war is going. 
 Beyond the mutual accusations, something has changed in the last 48 hours. The question is whether it lasts. Finally, after months of arguing over their Vietnam-era service and their plans for taxes and health care reform, the two candidates are arguing about a war that has taken more than 1,000 American lives. 
 With their first debate, devoted to foreign policy, little more than a week away, they are now engaging the question of who has a better plan to make Iraq stable and democratic enough to pave the way for an American exit.
 For both men it is a strategy filled with risks. 
 Until the past few days, Mr. Bush's team insisted that any day spent debating Iraq was a good day for the president, because even given bad news, Americans would get the message that this was no time to gamble on an untested commander in chief. 
 Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, insists that the administration is still confident of its strategy to transform Iraq. In an interview last week, she insisted that Mr. Bush had a winning plan for Iraq and said that ''the terrorists have nothing to offer the Iraqis.'' 
 While Ms. Rice stands by the assessment, the president's political team is no longer so sure how the argument will play out. The campaign leadership was shaken by recent assertions by three senior Republican senators -- Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, Richard G. Lugar of Indiana and John McCain of Arizona -- suggesting that the United States is facing deep trouble in Iraq, and that the White House may be in denial about the need for a new approach. 
 ''They are clearly worried that this could take a nasty turn,'' said one senior Republican strategist who joined a conference call on Monday about how to respond to Mr. Kerry's counterattacks. ''The headlines are getting to them.''
 But it is far from clear that Mr. Kerry is going to succeed at changing the terms of the debate, or that even if he does, he will overcome Mr. Bush's charge that he has flip-flopped on the wisdom of the invasion. 
 After all, it was Mr. Kerry, on the edge of the Grand Canyon last month, who declared that even if he had known what the world knows now about the absence of illicit weapons, he would have voted to authorize the president to go to war. For Mr. Kerry the key word is ''authorize'' -- he insists he would never actually have pulled the trigger with such skimpy intelligence and absence of international support.
 But Mr. Bush has scored points by repeating, at every campaign stop, that his opponent is a morass of ''new contradictions on old positions on Iraq.'' And now Mr. Kerry may have given him new ammunition, with his argument -- different from the one he offered at the canyon's rim -- that no president in his right mind should have sought that authorization. 
 ''Is he really saying that if we knew there were no imminent threat, no weapons of mass destruction, no ties to Al Qaeda, the United States should have invaded Iraq?'' Mr. Kerry asked in his speech on Monday.
 Mr. Bush's answer to that question is a resounding yes.
 For Mr. Kerry there is another risk, one wrapped in his own personal history. In his speech on Monday, he evoked his return to the United States from Vietnam. ''I saw firsthand what happens when pride or arrogance take over from rational decision making,'' he said, suggesting that Mr. Bush was heading off the same cliff that several predecessors had gone over during the defining conflict of his youth and Mr. Bush's.
 He dissented then, he said, ''because I believed strongly that we owed it to those risking their lives to speak truth to power. We still do.''
 The last time Mr. Kerry tried that, it started his political career. He is betting that lightning will strike twice. Mr. Bush has taken the other side of that bet, believing that in the end voters will reward him for standing tough, even if chaos and mayhem fill the television screens between now and Nov. 2. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%) Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Iran; North Korea ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



469 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Fed Raises Short-Term Rates for 3rd Time in 3 Months

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates another quarter of a point on Tuesday, and it suggested that it will keep raising them gradually over the next year.
 It was the Fed's third rate increase in three months. Coming six weeks before the presidential elections on Nov. 2, the decision pushed the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks up to 1.75 percent from 1.5 percent.
 While incumbent presidents normally cringe at the prospect of higher rates before an election, the increases are not expected to pose a threat to President Bush because consumers and businesses have felt almost no tangible impact. 
 Long-term interest rates, which determine home mortgage rates and many commercial loans, have edged down since June as fears of inflation have receded.
 And because this was the Fed's last policy meeting before the elections, consumers are unlikely to feel any more pinch from rates before the elections than they have already.
 ''If anything, the effect on consumers has been positive,'' said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo Bank in Minneapolis. Rates on 30-year fixed rate mortgages have declined from about 6.25 percent in June to 5.63 percent in mid-September, and the housing market remains almost as hot as ever. Stock and bond markets reacted very little to the decision, suggesting that long-term interest rates are likely to remain steady through the election as well. [Page C13.] 
 Shortly before the Fed announced its decision, the Commerce Department reported that housing construction, which had been expected to slow as rates went up, climbed to an annual rate of two million homes in August. That was the highest level in five months.
 The main question ahead of Tuesday's decision was whether the central bank would signal any change in its goal of raising rates at a measured pace of regular quarter-point increases over the next year.
 It did not, and if anything expressed greater optimism about the economy and therefore greater confidence about raising rates than it did after its previous policy meeting on Aug. 10.
 ''Output growth appears to have regained some traction, and labor market conditions have improved modestly,'' the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement accompanying its decision.
 Reiterating previous statements, the central bank stressed that interest rates were still low. ''Even after this action, the stance of monetary policy remains accommodative,'' the Fed said in its statement.
 Fed officials have made it clear that short-term rates, which were pushed down to 1 percent last year, are too low to be sustainable.
 The ''real'' federal funds rate, after subtracting the effect of inflation, is still below zero and far below historical levels. Even in nominal terms, short-term rates are still as low as they were in the late 1950's.
 ''Even though the Federal Reserve has started to tighten monetary policy, it's still far from tight,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, an economic forecasting company. ''By most measures, Fed policy is still quite stimulative.''
 In sharp contrast to the first President Bush, whose top advisers blamed the policies of the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, for worsening the recession of 1990 and 1991, White House officials under the current President Bush have not criticized the rate increases.
 By any measure, Mr. Bush has been a major beneficiary of Fed policy throughout his term, as the Fed cut rates repeatedly to fight the recession of 2001 and the shocks caused by the terrorist attacks and the preparations for wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
 Mr. Bush and Senator John Kerry both refused to comment on the Fed's latest rate increase.
 ''It is not the Federal Reserve's decision today, but the wrong choices of President Bush over four years that has most squeezed the pocketbooks of middle class families,'' the Kerry campaign said in a statement on Tuesday.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, speaking to a town meeting in Nashua, N.H., said that Mr. Bush's tax cuts had provided much-needed ''oxygen'' to the economy and that rising interest rates were ''consistent with an economic recovery,'' according to the Reuters news service.
 Nonetheless, Fed officials are aware that the economic expansion is more fragile than it seemed a few months ago, and the Fed was more cautious on Tuesday than when it first raised rates June 30.
 In June, the Fed said the nation's output was rising at a solid pace. On Tuesday, by contrast, it said that output growth ''appears to have regained some traction.''
 Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said: ''There is a degree of ambiguity that was not there in June. What they are doing here is leaving themselves room to maneuver. They're telling us that if the data doesn't turn out the way they think they have room not to hike rates in November.''
 Since the start of this year, Mr. Greenspan has charted a steady course even as the economy experienced an unexpected jump in consumer prices this spring and an unexpected slowdown in consumer spending and economic growth in the summer.
 Mr. Greenspan and other top officials contended that both surprises would prove temporary, and they have already been vindicated on the issue of consumer prices. The core rate of inflation, excluding volatile sectors like food and energy, declined to only 0.1 percent in August.
 The jury is still out on whether Mr. Greenspan is correct in contending that the soft patch in the economy is ending. Economic growth slowed to an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the second quarter, barely half as fast as the previous quarter, but most forecasters still predict that growth will remain above 3.5 percent for the rest of the year.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Responding to the Fed''As the Federal Reserve has started to push up short-term interest rates, the cost of home equity loans has climbed in tandem with the moves. But 30-year mortgages have fallen because investors see inflation staying under control.Graphs track the following from 2002-2004:1. Fed funds target rate: 1.75%2. 30-year fixed-rate mortgages (weekly)3. Rates on revolving home equity lines of credit (weekly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); ELECTIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Election Issues; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



470 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FEMALE VOTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Kerry in a Struggle for a Democratic Base: Women

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
It was no accident that John Kerry appeared Tuesday on ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' and recalled his days as a young prosecutor in a rape case. Or that he then flew from New York to Jacksonville, Fla., to promote his health care proposals. Or that on Thursday in Davenport, Iowa, he will preside over a forum on national security with an audience solely of women.
 These appearances are part of an energetic drive by the Kerry campaign to win back voters that Democrats think are rightfully theirs: women.
 In the last few weeks, Kerry campaign officials have been nervously eyeing polls that show an erosion of the senator's support among women, one of the Democratic Party's most reliable constituencies. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last week, women who are registered to vote were more likely to say they would vote for Mr. Bush than for Mr. Kerry, with 48 percent favoring Mr. Bush and 43 percent favoring Mr. Kerry. 
 In 2000, 54 percent of women voted for Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, while 43 percent voted for Mr. Bush.
 Democratic and Republican pollsters say the reason for the change this year is that an issue Mr. Bush had initially pitched as part of an overall message -- which candidate would be best able to protect the United States from terrorists -- has become particularly compelling for women. Several said that a confluence of two events -- a Republican convention that was loaded with provocative scenes of the Sept. 11 tragedy, and a terrorist attack on children in Russia -- had helped recast the electoral dynamic among this critical group in a way that created a new challenge for the Kerry camp.
 Mark Mellman, a pollster for the Kerry campaign, said that the campaign was not especially disturbed by the reduced support from women. ''I don't define it as a problem,'' Mr. Mellman said. ''I define it as an opportunity.'' He noted that a group of widows of Sept. 11 victims endorsed Mr. Kerry last week and offered that as evidence that the women ''thought he was better able to protect the country.'' 
 Just as Mr. Kerry is trying to win back women, Mr. Bush is seeking to do what Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, has vowed to do this year: challenge the Democrats on their own turf; in this case, make a pitch directly to women.
 Mr. Bush frequently tells audiences about the newfound freedoms for Afghan women who were liberated when the United States toppled the Taliban. His campaign rallies often feature signs saying ''W stands for Women.''
 On Tuesday Mr. Bush, who has presented himself as the nation's defender in chief, spoke directly of the attack this month in Russia, where extremists killed more than 300 people, half of them children, at a school. In a speech at the United Nations, he mentioned a grieving mother whose son was safe but who had lost her nephew in the shooting. 
 ''The Russian children did nothing to deserve such awful suffering and fright and death,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 Also in the last month, Mr. Kerry suffered in the polls from attacks by Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that challenged his record in Vietnam and highlighted his antiwar activities in the 1970's. One Democratic strategist said Mr. Kerry's failure to fight back against that attack fed a perception, particularly among married women, that he would not fight for them and their children. And, the strategist said, it is one reason Mr. Kerry must now ''rebuild his image on strength.''
 While Mr. Kerry has certainly lost support among women, some polls show he is still slightly ahead of Mr. Bush.
 Diane Feldman, a pollster for the Kerry campaign, said she did not accept that Mr. Kerry was losing among women and insisted that the campaign's own polling showed Mr. Kerry winning among women.
 Ms. Feldman would not disclose the campaign's numbers but said they showed Mr. Kerry's standing with women ''below what we would expect in exit polls on Election Day, and we have room for growth.'' She added, ''we're winning them, but not by as much as we will.'' She said she was confident of that prediction because women traditionally were late deciders.
 Mr. Mellman put it this way: ''We have every expectation that those undecideds will break toward John Kerry, but John Kerry is making a very concerted effort to reach out to precisely those women voters.''
 Mr. Kerry has been endorsed by a half-dozen Sept. 11 widows, and his campaign has deployed a group of ''military moms'' whose children are serving in Iraq to speak on his behalf in several swing states. 
 ''You've seen women much, much more concerned than men that an attack could happen in their hometown,'' said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who specializes in female voters.
 Ms. Lake said the feeling of fear was a natural outgrowth of the Sept. 11 attacks and was reinforced this month when the extremists seized the school in a remote region of southern Russia.
 ''The images from Russia were particularly vivid to moms,'' Ms. Lake said, adding that they had been alarmed to see children killed in a school and in an obscure town. ''That's very, very unnerving to women.''
 While women in the Times/CBS poll saw both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush as able to make the right decisions about protecting the country from another terrorist attack, they expressed more confidence in Mr. Bush. Forty-eight percent of women said they had a lot of confidence in Mr. Bush and 25 percent had some confidence, while 29 percent said they had a lot of confidence in Mr. Kerry and 35 percent had some confidence.
 Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, said that when voters are asked, ''Are you worried about being a target of a terrorist attack?'' generally men in big cities said they were but men elsewhere were not, while ''women everywhere felt that was true.''
 Traditionally, there is a gap between married women and single women, with married women voting more Republican and single women voting more Democratic. This year, Ms. Lake said, the gap between how married and single women expect to vote is greater than it has ever been, largely because of the emergence of what analysts call ''security moms,'' who tend to be white, married women who have children and who are fearful of another attack within the United States.
 ''Security moms'' are an outgrowth of the ''soccer moms'' who had emerged in previous elections as important swing voters. But soccer moms tended to live mainly in the suburbs and could vote either way. Security moms live everywhere and are leaning Republican.
 In the Times/CBS News poll, married women who are registered to vote were far more likely to say they would vote for Mr. Bush (59 percent) than for Mr. Kerry (32 percent).
 Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, said that women over all were ''cross-pressured'' this year because they had more confidence in Mr. Bush on terrorism but were skeptical that he would handle the economy better.
 ''There's a tension among middle-class women who are attracted by Bush's perceived strength on terrorism and concerns about his poor performance on the domestic agenda,'' Mr. Kohut said. ''They will be the story of this election: the way women make this choice.''
 Mr. Kohut said that in 2000, men voted for Mr. Bush at the same rate that women voted for Mr. Gore. ''Now,'' he said, ''Bush has more solid strength among men than Kerry has among women, and if Kerry can't match that margin among women, he will lose.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry appeared yesterday on ''Live With Regis and Kelly.'' (Photo by Buena Vista Television) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WOMEN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TALIBAN (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Women; Voter Behavior; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Election Issues; Suburbs; Presidential Election of 2004; Television; Education and Schools; Murders and Attempted Murders; Children and Youth; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: New York Times/cbs News Poll

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); REGIS PHILBIN (88%); AL GORE (72%); KARL ROVE (55%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Katharine Q Seelye; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Russia; Beslan (Russia); Chechnya (Russia); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



471 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN BRIEFING: THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: EDWARDS ON THE ECONOMY

BYLINE: By Randal C. Archibold (NYT)

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards, in a speech in Cleveland, laid out in detail why the Kerry campaign believed Mr. 
Bush had fostered ''the most radical and dangerous economic agenda'' since socialism a century ago, and what Senator John Kerry would do to change it. Mr. Edwards, sprinkling in dire economic statistics on Ohio's economic health, outlined the Kerry plan to maintain tax cuts for all but the wealthiest taxpayers and to provide tax credits and other measures to prompt economic development and raise earnings among lower-income people. Randal C. Archibold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (86%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



472 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: President Bush's Lead Balloon

 BODY:
We did not expect President Bush to come before the United Nations in the middle of his re-election campaign and acknowledge the serious mistakes his administration has made on Iraq. But that still left plenty of room for him to take advantage of this one last chance to appeal to an increasingly antagonistic world to help the Iraqis secure and rebuild their shattered nation and prepare for elections in just four months. Instead, Mr. Bush delivered an inexplicably defiant campaign speech in which he glossed over the current dire situation in Iraq for an audience acutely aware of the true state of affairs, and scolded them for refusing to endorse the American invasion in the first place. 
 Even when he talked about issues of common agreement, like the global fight against AIDS and easing the crushing third-world debt, Mr. Bush seemed more interested in praising his own policies than in assuming the leadership of an international effort. The speech would have drawn cheers at an adoring Republican National Convention, but it seemed to fall flat in a room full of stony-faced world leaders.
 Mr. Bush has never exhibited much respect for the United Nations at the best of times. But the United States now desperately needs the partnership of other nations on Iraq. Without substantial help from major nations, the prospects for stabilizing that country anytime soon are bleak. American soldiers and taxpayers are paying a heavy price for Washington's wrongheaded early insistence on controlling all important military, political and economic decision-making in post-invasion Iraq. 
 Other nations have generally responded by sitting sullenly on the sidelines. Even when they cast grudging votes for American-sponsored Security Council resolutions, they hold back on troops and financial support. With the war going so badly and voters hostile to it in most democracies, that situation is unlikely to change unless Washington signals a new attitude, and deals with other countries as real partners whose opinions and economic interests are entitled to respectful consideration. 
 Mr. Bush might have done better at wooing broader international support if he had spent less time on self-justification and scolding and more on praising the importance of international cooperation and a strengthened United Nations. Instead, his tone-deaf speechwriters achieved a perverse kind of alchemy, transforming a golden opportunity into a lead balloon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (59%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (52%) Editorials; United States International Relations; Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004



473 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Law Will Help Entertainers Pay for Their Health Plans

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki has signed a bill that will use state money to help actors, performers and other entertainment industry members maintain their health insurance during their all-too-frequent bouts of unemployment. 
 The bill, which was passed by the Legislature earlier this year and signed by the governor late Tuesday, will allow eligible unemployed entertainers to receive 50 percent of monthly premium payments to their individual union insurance plans, as prescribed by Federal insurance laws. 
 Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester County who sponsored the bill, hailed its passage as a vital step in assuring that unemployed actors that break legs (or catch colds, etc.), and other entertainers whose work often comes sporadically or seasonally, do not fall into the ranks of the uninsured.
 ''This is not just good health policy, it's terrific economic development policy,'' said Mr. Brodsky, who used to teach entertainment law and whose wife was once an actress. ''Because keeping Broadway healthy is key to the economic health of New York City.''
 Actors are not the only performers eligible under the bill; it covers those working in any capacity in the worlds of dance, music, music recording, film, radio, television and even the circus, according to the Actors Fund of America, the nonprofit human services charity that will supervise the $3.75 million program. In order to be eligible, a person must already be eligible for benefits under federal laws and have an income of less than $19,345 for an individual or $32,594 for a family of three, said Jim Brown, a managing director of the health insurance resource center with the actors fund.
 Some dislocated factory workers are also covered by the program, which takes effect in 60 days, Mr. Brown said. 
 The law caps more than three years of campaigning by various entertainment industry unions and performers.
 How many entertainers were eligible was unclear, but Alan Eisenberg, executive director of Actors Equity, said the bill could be ''an important health insurance subsidy for the thousands of individuals who work in the creative arts in New York.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FILM (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); MUSIC GENRES (66%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance; Labor; Actors and Actresses; Unemployment; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Actors Fund of America

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



474 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Supply Worries Lift Oil Prices; Bond Yields Keep Falling

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Crude oil prices jumped to within striking distance of $50 a barrel yesterday, while the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell below 4 percent for the first time since April. The major stock market gauges fell more than 1 percent.
 Oil prices surged after a report showed a sharp drawdown in American inventories, chiefly as a result of Hurricane Ivan, heightening concerns about supply. The price of crude oil for November delivery climbed 3.4 percent, to $48.35 a barrel. 
 The rise in oil prices has helped to push down longer-term interest rates, including those on mortgages, even as the Federal Reserve pushes short-term rates higher. This is because many investors are worried that the rise in oil prices is acting like a tax on consumers and will result in slower-than-expected economic growth in the quarters ahead. Slower growth should mean lower interest rates. 
 Rates have also been falling because it appears that the oil price shock, so far, has not led to a broad rise in prices and overall inflation. Federal Reserve policy makers noted this Tuesday when they announced a an increase of a quarter of a percentage point in their benchmark short-term rate, to 1.75 percent.
 Yesterday that trend seemed to continue as the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.98 percent, from 4.04 percent Tuesday. The yield was 4.87 percent on June 14, its high for the year. 
 But it appeared that the drop below 4 percent was less a result of economic fundamentals than of technical factors in the Treasury market. Those included hedging against losses from a potential new surge in home mortgage refinancing if the yield on the 10-year note, which has a major impact on mortgage rates, falls even further.
 If there is another refinancing surge, mortgages held by investors would be paid off and replaced with mortgages at lower interest rates. To hedge against this loss, the managers of big mortgage portfolios buy Treasury securities or similar instruments. The prices of these securities will rise if rates fall further, offsetting some of the losses from taking on new, lower-rate mortgages. This buying to hedge, however, also sends overall rates lower.
 One analyst said Treasury yields were also being pushed lower by investors who had bet that longer-term rates would rise when the Federal Reserve began raising its benchmark rate. To reduce the losses from this bet, investors have to buy Treasury securities.
 ''These things tend to feed on themselves, and you get these swings in the market that get exaggerated,'' said William Prophet, an interest rate strategist at UBS.
 Because of these technical factors, rates could fall further for a while and go much lower than expected. Rates, however, could pick up again when the technical buying slows down.
 Because analysts say the recent rebound in oil prices is a response to the loss of production caused by Hurricane Ivan, it is also possible that oil prices will slip again once this disruption is over.
 The news that oil inventories dropped 9.1 million barrels, to 269.5 million, in the week that ended Friday was one reason that crude oil for November delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose $1.59, or 3.4 percent, to $48.35 a barrel. That is just 35 cents from its closing high on Aug. 19. Since then, oil has dropped as low as $42.12 on Aug. 31 and then climbed again as hurricane activity intensified.
 The government also reported after the market closed Tuesday that there were now 13 pipeline leaks as a result of damage from Ivan and that seven fixed platforms had been destroyed. This is up from the three pipeline leaks and four missing platforms reported late Monday.
 ''I think the oil market is in a frenzy now,'' said James R. Steel, the New York research director for Refco. But he said that once the production disruption was over, the price of oil should slip again because of the crude oil supplies that are now on their way to the United States, especially from Saudi Arabia. ''We could easily get into the vicinity of $50 in the short term,'' he said, ''but in the longer term the pressure will be down.'' 
 In the stock market, shares of Morgan Stanley plunged $3.66, or 7 percent, to $48.72, after it reported that third-quarter earnings fell 34 percent from a year ago -- much weaker than forecasts.
 FedEx said its quarterly profit had doubled, but after hitting a record high Tuesday its stock fell $3.48, or 3.9 percent, to $85.21. Stocks are often bought in anticipation of good news and then sold, to lock in profits, after the news is reported.
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 135.75 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,109.18 while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.74 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,113.56. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 35.47 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,885.71.
 The price of the Treasury's 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose by 14/32, to 102 5/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9)Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); FUTURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEATHER (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Ivan (Storm); Futures and Options Trading; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Credit; Interest Rates

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



475 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: For Jobs, Brazilians Forsake Their Cities

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
A year and a half ago, Isabel Fatima Bueno and her husband, Ricardo Del Arco Pereira, gave up on Sao Paulo, a city that has long been a magnet for job seekers from all over Brazil.
 Mr. Pereira, an economist trained in corporate finance, had been unemployed more than a year and could not find work anywhere. With two young children at home, the couple struggled to make ends meet on Ms. Bueno's modest salary as an accountant at a trading company. That was tough; after all, Brazil's biggest city is also the country's most expensive. 
 So they packed their bags and moved to Birigui, a city of 100,000 people in western Sao Paulo State with almost no unemployment, in contrast to an 18.5 percent jobless rate in Sao Paulo. In less than three months, both landed full-time administrative jobs at shoe factories, the town's main industry.
 ''Ricardo couldn't find a job, and my salary just wasn't enough to raise a family in Sao Paulo, so we had to go where there was more of a chance for both of us to get work,'' said Ms. Bueno, 35, who was born and raised in Sao Paulo. ''It wasn't an easy choice, but it was the right choice.''
 They are far from alone. A growing number of Brazilians are finding it increasingly difficult to get good jobs in big metropolitan areas like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and are looking elsewhere. 
 Thanks to a boom in agriculture and the emergence in recent years of specialized industrial hubs in small and medium-size towns, Brazil's vast but still sparsely populated interior is generating jobs at a faster pace than urban centers for the first time in generations.
 Consequently, rural Brazilians are far less inclined than those of past generations to uproot their families for an often uncertain city life. 
 As Brazil began to industrialize in the 1950's, millions of peasants from the poorest regions climbed onto the back of rickety trucks known as paus-de-arara (the term, for the wooden swings that tropical birds sit on inside their cages, was used because people sitting in the back of the trucks resembled the birds bobbing up and down) and headed to Sao Paulo in search of work in the factories sprouting up on the city's outskirts. That led to spectacular but chaotic growth in cities like Sao Paulo. 
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, a onetime metalworker and union boss who is now Brazil's president, was in one of the first waves to arrive in Sao Paulo, arriving as a child with his family from the drought-stricken interior of the northeastern state of Pernambuco. With unemployment in Brazil's six largest cities now averaging 11.2 percent, according to the government statistics agency, a reverse migration is taking place. 
 ''When it comes to job creation, there's no doubt that the interior of the country is showing much more dynamism than metropolitan areas,'' said Remigio Todeschini, who directs the public policy and employment department at Brazil's labor ministry. ''That's bound to have an impact on where people go to look for work.''
 According to the most recent labor ministry survey, 70 percent of the new jobs generated in Brazil in the first seven months of the year were in small to medium-size towns. Just 30 percent were created in large urban centers, which are still home to more than two-thirds of the country's population.
 Birigui is a case in point. Once a sleepy farming town, these days Birigui is a bustling industrial hub, turning out more than 250,000 pairs of shoes a day, for both domestic and export markets. 
 To keep up with demand, the town's 166 shoe factories bus in more than 3,000 people every day from 27 nearby municipalities to work on the assembly lines. Thousands more relocate to Birigui every year in search of jobs, making it one of the fastest-growing cities in Sao Paulo State.
 ''The unemployment rate here is almost zero, and there's still demand for labor,'' said Samir Nakad, the president of the shoe industry association in Birigui. ''If 2,000 people with some basic skills showed up here tomorrow, chances are they would have a job.''
 Agriculture is another reason that Brazilians are flocking to the countryside. Already the world's top grower of coffee, sugar cane and oranges, Brazil has in the last decade also become a leading producer of soybeans, cotton and beef. 
 Much of the growth has taken place in the sprawling savannas of central states like Mato Grosso, where the population has grown to almost three million from two million in the early 1990's as soy plantations came to dominate the state's landscape.
 Cotton, meanwhile, has brought people and prosperity to the sun-drenched fields of western Bahia, a once dirt-poor and neglected region in the northeast that has become a farming powerhouse in recent years. In Luis Eduardo Magalhaes, one of the fastest-growing towns in the area, the population has more than doubled since 2001 to 42,000, igniting a construction boom. In contrast, once-sizzling urban growth -- the population of greater Sao Paulo mushroomed from just 2.2 million in 1950 to more than 17 million today -- has cooled considerably. 
 ''There are still people coming to Sao Paulo, but the flow of people has slowed dramatically,'' said Clemente Ganz Lucio, an expert in labor markets at Dieese, a research group in Sao Paulo financed by local unions that conducts unemployment surveys. ''The capacity to create jobs here just isn't what it used to be, and people are realizing that.''
 After three decades of growing more than 5 percent a year, the city's population growth began to slow in the 1980's, and has dropped even more in the last decade to below 2 percent a year, according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics. A leading reason for the slowdown, analysts say, is the dearth of job opportunities.
 Although unemployment has shown signs of abating in recent months now that the economy is gaining steam, the 11.2 percent unemployment rate in the six largest metropolitan areas in July means that 2.4 million people in those cities who were actively looking for work could not find it.
 The situation is most critical in Sao Paulo, where the jobless rate is ebbing slowly but remains a staggering 18.5 percent, largely because the city is becoming more a financial and commercial center than the industrial hub it was in the 1970's. Some traditional industries, like the auto sector, are generating jobs to meet a surge in orders from abroad, but generally manufacturing jobs in Sao Paulo are increasingly hard to find.
 ''Rio and Sao Paulo used to concentrate almost all of the country's manufacturing capacity, but those days are long gone,'' Mr. Ganz Lucio said. ''Now economic development is extending to the rest of the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brazil's urban refugees are finding work in places like Birigui, more than 300 miles west of Sao Paulo, where shoe factories thrive. At left, workers on a factory bus. (Photographs by Mauricio Lima/Agence France-Presse, for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Workers at Pampili, a children's shoe manufacturer in Birigui, Brazil, where unemployment is near zero. In Sao Paulo, it is 18.5 percent. (Photo by Mauricio Lima/Agence France-Presse, for The New York Times)(pg. W7)Map of Brazil highlighting Birigui: Jobs are being created in towns like Birigui, far from cities. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); FARM LABOR (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); FOOTWEAR MFG (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); CHILDREN (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DROUGHT (64%); BIRDS (60%); POPULATION DENSITY (50%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Economic Conditions and Trends; Agriculture; Labor

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (57%) Todd Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (98%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (91%) NORTHEAST USA (78%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (78%) Brazil; Sao Paulo (Brazil); Rio De Janeiro (Brazil); Birigui (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



476 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Accidental Environmentalist; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Living From One Discarded Can to the Next

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
They call him Can Man, and that suits Juan Taylor just fine. 
 People yell, ''Hey, Can Man,'' as he sifts through their trash. Mr. Taylor pauses to flash a toothless smile, waves with calloused palm and blackened fingernails and then dives back in to fish for five cents of gold in the mounds of pungent garbage. 
 Nickel by nickel, he earns his daily bread through the insouciance of a city too harried and proud to sort its own waste. New Yorkers may love money but not enough to lug their spent aluminum cans to the supermarket, where the wait for a redemption machine, if it is working, can stretch as long as an hour. 
 That is where Mr. Taylor comes in. ''I'm the accidental environmentalist, at your service,'' Mr. Taylor said as he pulled a C-Town shopping cart up Broadway toward Herald Square. By the end of the day, Mr. Taylor's vehicle -- ''my Volkswagen,'' as he calls it -- is completely enveloped by four bulging garbage bags, each tethered to broomsticks wedged in the corners of his cart. The cargo creates a great metallic jingle as he maneuvers over curbs and around pedestrians who rarely break stride to let him pass. 
 On a hot thirsty day, Mr. Taylor can earn $50 or more from New Yorkers' castoffs. On a slow day, he lies down on the pavement with just a few dollars in his pocket. ''I'm invisible to the world, but I do the people's dirty work,'' he said, plucking a half-smoked cigarette off the sidewalk. ''People don't appreciate the service I'm performing.''
 As the Bloomberg administration prepares to spend $45 million to build a recycling plant in Brooklyn, men like Mr. Taylor can only hope the city's renewed interest in recycling will produce a windfall for the scavengers who depend on unredeemed cans and bottles for survival. 
 Although the superintendents of large apartment complexes often sort their tenants' garbage, and leave bags of recyclables ready for the taking, supers of smaller buildings are less conscientious, making it more difficult for can pickers to do their job. ''There's no sense digging through a bag of stinky garbage just to get a can,'' Mr. Taylor said, squeezing the outside of a black trash bag for aluminum protrusions as a doctor might examine the belly of a patient. 
 Can collecting is big business in New York, where hundreds of people earn a meager living rummaging through sidewalk trash bins and office building Dumpsters. ''It's amazing the implication of all those nickels,'' said Bob Sann, executive director of We Can, a nonprofit organization that runs two redemption centers in the city, serving about 300 people a week. 
 Since its creation in 1987, the group has put $35 million into the hands of trash pickers, Mr. Sann said. ''It's an entire underground economy of entrepreneurs,'' he said. ''If not for these people, these cans would end up in landfills.'' 
 Can picking is not for the queasy or the lazy. Mr. Taylor often begins his rounds at 2 a.m. and does not call it quits until 8 or 9 at night. He jealously guards his route, which roughly extends up Broadway from Union Square to 32nd Street and down Fifth Avenue to 14th Street. 
 Mr. Taylor, 57, is a Vietnam veteran and former boxer who has been homeless off and on since 1986. He is proud of his singing voice and sharp wit, both of which are often on display for strangers who stop to listen. For a man who smells less than fragrant, he is extremely popular with the office workers and shopkeepers, who interrupt his solitary trek every block or so with a handshake or a smoke. 
 When the night is warm, he beds down in a small park on Fifth Street near Second Avenue or under some scaffolding on Avenue C. Rain sends him to the subway, where he sleeps upright on a bench or on the train, placing a newspaper in his lap to appear as if he is reading.
 ''I never lay down in the subway,'' he said. ''I don't want to look like those other homeless people.''
 He has long since given up on shelters, which he says are alternately dangerous and restrictive, a hindrance to his collecting and his drinking. 
 He may down up to five pints of Thunderbird a day, but he always maintains his wit and composure. ''I'm a happy drunk,'' he said the other day, after consuming an entire bottle in one great gulp -- the best way to avoid the intervention of the police or other thirsty drunks. ''I drink to stay normal,'' he said. 
 Despite more than two dozen attempts at detoxification, Mr. Taylor has been unable to beat his addiction. ''I've spent most of my life drunk,'' he said. ''I got married drunk, worked drunk and raised a family drunk.'' Without alcohol, his hands begin to shake and he is unable to face the world.
 He blames a loveless, orphaned childhood in Brooklyn for his disease. There were 11 foster homes, most of them abusive, he says. His mother, a Cuban-born singer, gave him up at birth. She did the same with his sister, Juanita, but eventually came back for her. She did not return for him. 
 In 1965, shortly after he was drafted into the Army, he ran into the two of them on a Manhattan street. Mr. Taylor still seethes at the memory. ''My mother scolded my sister for talking to a stranger,'' he recalled. ''She didn't even recognize who I was.'' 
 After Vietnam, he married, bought a house in Queens and fathered three children. There were jobs over the years -- as a Parks Department maintenance man, a short-order cook in the Catskills, a zipper salesman -- but drinking always gained the upper hand. It has been more than a decade since Mr. Taylor spoke to his former wife and children. ''I don't want them to see me till I straighten up,'' he said. 
 Cans are not his only sustenance, and sometimes Mr. Taylor happens upon more lucrative finds. Last week, he came upon a camera that he sold to a supermarket cashier for $25. He regularly finds perfectly good televisions, microwaves and computers that he sells for a few dollars. Over the years, he has twice discovered bodies in empty lots and called 911.
 But his most momentous discovery, he says, was the bag of crack he found behind a trash bin on East 11th Street in 1991. Being a liquor man, he had no interest in keeping the stuff, so he did what he often does with found objects: he tried to redeem the bag for cash. His mistake was showing it to a man who turned out to be an undercover detective. 
 Even though he had no record, the public defender who took the case told Mr. Taylor he would do best by pleading guilty and accepting a five-year sentence. Mr. Taylor did the time and became a jailhouse entertainer, using his crooning and comedic skills during inmate talent shows. 
 ''Doing time helped me discover my gifts,'' he said. It also helped him become reacquainted with sobriety, even if it did not last. 
 As the first chill of September blew in, Mr. Taylor turned contemplative and edgy. The previous night, he had run into an old drinking buddy who had lost both feet to frostbite the previous year, and Mr. Taylor was suddenly fearful of another winter on the street. 
 After two almost decades of homelessness, he knows he is lucky to be alive. His back is pitted where a group of teenagers planted an M-80 firecracker as he slept. His right wrist bears a thick scar, the result, he says, of a police officer's blackjack that was meant to rouse him from a bench in Grand Central Terminal. High blood pressure and arthritis have been making the daily can hunt more grueling. 
 ''I've got to start making some hard decisions soon,'' he said, referring to another stab at rehabilitation. ''I don't want to die on the street.''
 Last Thursday, he found a cellphone in the trash, and even though it did not work, the screen still emitted a luxuriant glow when opened. Unable to sleep, he sat enraptured by the phone, holding it to his ear for hours, pretending to speak to some long-lost relation. People passing by laughed at the homeless guy on the phone. But rather than shame him, the attention was somehow life affirming.
 ''This phone makes me feel like someone,'' he said as the battery began to drain. ''It's reminding me that one day, I might be able to be more than just the Can Man.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Taylor pushing his shopping cart looking for cans along Broadway near 28th Street. On a good day, he can earn $50 or more from castoffs. At left, Mr. Taylor speaks with Ana and Jenny Stern, neighborhood residents. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
An alcoholic most of his adult life, Juan Taylor may drink up to five pints of Thunderbird a day but always maintains his wit and composure.
 Juan Taylor, 57, is a Vietnam veteran and the father of three. (Photographs by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); CONSTRUCTION (67%) Soft Drinks; Biographical Information; Containers and Packaging; Recycling of Waste Materials

PERSON: Juan Taylor; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



477 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Guess Who's Invited to Dinner

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
In recognition of its growing economic power, China will meet with the Group of 7 for the first time next week in what could be a prelude to joining the elite club of wealthy industrialized nations.
 John Taylor, the under secretary for international affairs at the Department of the Treasury, said the meeting would be a ''historic first engagement'' and was recognition of China's expanding role in the global economy.
 ''The engagement of China is very important,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 Mr. Taylor added that ''China is a large, growing economy.'' Already, the economy of China is larger than Canada's and nearly as large as Italy's, both of which are members of the Group of 7.
 The price of China's entry into the group could be the revamping of its currency, making it more flexible and stronger against other currencies, especially the dollar. The United States and Japan have been pushing China to end its practice of pegging its currency, the yuan, to the dollar and let it float or revalue upward.
 Russia was invited to be part of a Group of 8 countries during the Clinton administration because of its political power, not its economic prowess, and it continues to attend the annual summit meetings for heads of state and top officials.
 An opening of the Group of 7 to China would be the first expansion of the economic group. But China's first session with the ministers is only a limited affair, occurring at a dinner next week on the sidelines of the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 As the host country for the Group of 7 meeting, the United States has been pushing for improved relations with China and forgiveness of some of Iraq's estimated $120 billion debt.
 But even giving China a small toehold into the group could anger many American manufacturing companies and unions which consider China more as a commercial enemy than an ally. They have accused China of flooding the United States with cheap exports, made even cheaper with its undervalued currency. This, they claim, amounts to unfair trade.
 In this election year, some of the loudest complaints have come from manufacturing companies and labor unions in swing states. Two weeks ago, a coalition of unions and industrial associations filed a petition with the Bush administration, asking it to sue China over its currency at the World Trade Organization. The administration rejected the proposal.
 At a news briefing on Wednesday, Mr. Taylor said the administration was ''very positive'' about the steps China has taken to prepare for making its currency flexible.
 Mr. Taylor also said that he hoped that the meetings would push forward a commitment from the world's wealthiest nations to forgive a sizeable amount of Iraq's debt before the end of the year.
 But the United States has failed to get a firm consensus from its European allies. The issue of Iraq's debt has become intertwined with a European demand that in return, the United States must support stepped-up relief for African nations and other poor countries as well as make a commitment that debt relief would not rule out an increase foreign aid.
 ''When the United States asked us for so much debt relief for Iraq, we said the answer was to also relieve the debt of the poorer nations,'' said a European diplomat who asked to be anonymous. ''Now the Americans are trying to come along with debt relief for the poor but we are afraid they will then dry up the money for foreign aid that these poor countries deserve.''
 Normally Iraq would not qualify for debt relief because its income is too high. In response to the European demand, the United States came up with a program to give relief to some 30 poor countries that do qualify.
 When asked if this would mean less money for foreign aid, Mr. Taylor said that debt relief and other changes were necessary before aid could be effective.
 James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, said in an interview on Wednesday that replenishing the coffers of the World Bank to ensure that it could continue to give needed foreign aid and grants was a big concern.
 ''The United States initiative is absolutely correct,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said. ''Debt relief is critical but we also have to ask, 'How will you fund the future?'''
 The World Bank has already overseen $53 billion in debt relief for the world's poorest countries. In recent years, the cause of debt relief has been adopted by some prominent activists, like Bono, the Irish rock star. Charities and other nongovernmental organization have lobbied Washington and European capitals to come up with an expanded debt relief program during the annual meetings next week.
 Several groups, including Jubilee USA Network and Health GAP, which promote help for countries fighting the AIDS epidemic, said on Wednesday that with African nations spending $15 billion annually on debt repayment, it was essential that their debts be forgiven.
 But the disagreement between Washington and its Group of 7 partners over debt relief and foreign aid could quash hopes of a compromise.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shipping containers at a terminal in Shanghai, China, recently awaited export to trading partners around the world. China's expanding economic power is being recognized by nations with growing trade deficits. (Photo by Chen Yujie/Imaginechina via Zuma Press)Graph: ''Balancing Act''China's role as a trading partner with the U.S. has grown over the last decade, with the U.S. deficit swelling.Graph tracks the U.S. China trade (includes exports and imports) and the U.S. trade deficit from 1994-July 2004.(Source by U.S. Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLITICS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); PETITIONS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; International Trade and World Market; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%) Group of Seven; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; European Union

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; John (Under Sec) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) China; Iraq; Europe; Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



478 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Stock chat on the Internet may be odd, but it's not just noise, a study finds.

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
TALK is cheap, particularly on the Internet. Stock message boards are a case in point. Every day participants post tens of thousands of tips about which way various stocks are heading. Is any of this worth reading?
 Recently, two financial economists from the University of British Columbia, Werner Antweiler and Murray Z. Frank, examined the message board phenomenon in a paper entitled ''Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards,'' published in the June 2004 issue of The Journal of Finance. 
 They collected more than 1.5 million messages from two online boards, Yahoo Finance and Raging Bull, and analyzed them using methods of computational linguistics and econometrics.
 The computational linguistics techniques allowed them to classify messages with respect to whether they advocated buying, holding or selling the stock in question. Most of the messages were short and direct, allowing the algorithms to do a pretty good job of classification.
 Of course, some postings could not be easily classified. As the authors charitably remark, ''A remarkable range of sometimes quite odd things are said in the messages.''
 Mr. Antweiler and Mr. Frank then merged the estimated buy/sell/hold signals into one ''bullishness measure,'' which was a slightly modified version of the ratio of buy to sell recommendations.
 During the period they examined in their article, January to December 2000, the Internet bubble dissipated. Bullish messages, however, continued to proliferate throughout the year, perhaps reflecting a ''buy on the dips'' sentiment popular at the time. Or perhaps the messages represented attempts by day traders to talk up the value of the stocks in their dwindling portfolios.
 But did the message volume, timing and sentiment forecast anything useful? The three most interesting features of a stock on a given day are its return (how much it increased or decreased), its volume (how many shares were traded) and its volatility (how much the price fluctuated).
 The authors found that the characteristics of messages helped predict volume and volatility. Perhaps more surprisingly, they also found that the number of messages on one day helped predict stock returns the next day. The degree of predictability, however, was weak and reversed itself the next trading day. Perhaps cheap talk can move stock prices a tiny bit, but if so, the response was only temporary.
 The bullish sentiment of messages was positively associated with contemporaneous returns, but has no predictive power for future returns. Traders post bullish messages about a given stock on days when its price goes up, but it is hard to determine which way the causation runs. The fact that the postings do not predict future returns suggests that, if anything, it is the returns that cause the postings rather than the reverse.
 Economists who believe in efficient markets can breathe a sigh of relief. It would indeed be a problem if publicly available information like message board postings had meaningful predictive power for stock returns.
 The story was different with respect to volatility. It appeared that the more messages posted about a stock one day, the higher its volatility was the next day.
 Trading volume was also correlated with messages. However, the apparent causation here was somewhat subtle. Message posting appeared to cause volume when the researchers examined daily data. But when they looked at the market at 15-minute intervals, trading volume seemed to cause messages.
 One hypothesis consistent with these observations about volume and messages was that people might tend to post messages shortly after buying a stock. Even though there are two sides to every trade, the seller has little incentive to brag about the dog he just unloaded, while the buyer has a strong incentive to recommend that others buy the stock he has just purchased.
 This effect may lead to the bullish bias in postings alluded to above, which persisted even in the face of declining markets.
 An old adage says, ''It's differences of opinion that make horse races.'' Just so with stock markets: the more agreement in the buy/sell messages on a given day, the less trading volume was observed. But substantial agreement of message postings on one day was correlated with a higher level of trading volume the next. Perhaps this is a momentum effect -- if the crowd says it is going to buy, individual participants might decide they should buy too.
 Finally, the authors asked whether the message boards simply repeat information already publicly available, or whether they add new information. It appeared from their analysis that high message volume helps predict articles in The Wall Street Journal published two or three days later, though again the causality was unclear.
 It could be, for example, that the messages and the articles were stimulated by the same news, but it takes longer for the stories to be published than for the messages to be posted.
 In summing up their study, the authors conclude that the talk on message boards is not just noise. Though the predictive power for returns is too small to be meaningful, message board activity does seem to help predict volatility and volume.
 Furthermore, the correlations between message board postings, volume and volatility are not only statistically significant, they are quite large compared with the magnitude of correlation one typically observes in financial markets.
 This is noteworthy in itself. Volatility is a critical factor in options prices, and stocks of Wall Street companies respond to changes in trading volume. So it seems there is something to be learned from the textual analysis of message board data.
 More important, perhaps, the authors have shown that computational linguistics can be a useful tool in financial economics. In current work, the authors are examining the effect of news stories on stock prices using similar methods. One could also analyze Securities and Exchange Commission filings with such techniques, perhaps shedding some light on corporate accounting practices.
 In the 1970's we saw the rise of Wall Street quantitative analysts. Then came program trading. Perhaps computational linguistics and textual data mining will become the new hot technologies in financial economics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two day traders in Jersey City are among those who study stock charts and read comments on a variety of financial Internet sites and perhaps post messages. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); WRITERS (75%); COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BONDS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Murray Z Frank; Werner Antweiler; Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



479 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: VENTIV HEALTH AGREES TO PURCHASE SMITH HANLEY

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Ventiv Health, which provides marketing and sales services to pharmaceutical companies, has agreed to buy the Smith Hanley Corporation for $50 million in cash and may pay more based upon profitability targets, the company said. The purchase is expected to add 7 cents to Ventiv's 2005 full-year earnings per share. Ventiv's chief executive, Eran Broshy, said that the purchase would broaden the services it would offer to clients. The closely held Smith Hanley, based in Southport, Conn., provides contract and recruiting services for 65 pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients. Ventiv is based in Somerset, N.J.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); DIVESTITURES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (82%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (54%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: INVENTIV HEALTH INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Ventiv Health; Smith Hanley Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



480 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Opens Investigation Of Fannie Mae

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
A federal report accusing Fannie Mae, the giant mortgage company, of improper accounting has led to an informal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company's board announced Wednesday. Shares of the company fell $4.96, to $70.69, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, released a report on the Internet Wednesday night saying that an ongoing, eight-month investigation had found improper ''cookie jar'' accounting -- that is, setting aside artificially large cash reserves to reduce revenues in some years so they can be drawn on in other years when the company needs higher revenue and earnings, thus smoothing out earnings. The S.E.C. says the practice gives investors an inaccurate picture of a company's financial performance. 
 The housing office said it also found a corporate culture ''that emphasized stable earnings at the expense of accurate financial disclosures.'' The investigation found at least one instance where the company deferred expenses to meet executive bonus targets.
 The 211-page report says the findings thus far ''are serious and raise doubts concerning the validity of previously reported financial results, the adequacy of regulatory capital, the quality of management supervision, and the overall safety and soundness of the enterprise.''
 Armando Falcon Jr., director of the oversight office, or Ofheo, said that the agency had met with Fannie Mae's board and was ''working with the board to resolve the issues raised in the examination.'' 
 Ann McLaughlin Korologos, the presiding director of the board, released a statement on Wednesday morning, saying, ''The board takes the report seriously and is working with Ofheo to resolve these matters.'' The board has hired former Senator Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire, who is now a partner in Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, as an independent counsel. It has also created a committee of independent directors to work with the government regulators.
 Specifically, the report criticizes the company for accounting methods used on amortization and derivatives, which it uses to hedge against interest rate and other risks, saying that its methods did not comply with generally accepted accounting practices. As a result, the report found, Fannie Mae's management had misstated interest income over many reporting periods, as well as in its balance sheet accounts.
 The report said that the investigation found that a ''desire by management to minimize earnings volatility was a central organizing principle in the development of key accounting policies.'' For example, after unexpected increases in amortization expenses in 1998, Fannie Mae's management developed policies to cushion against future earnings. In an effort to produce the desired results, the staff would do multiple runs of different models.
 The report accused the chief financial officer, Tim Howard, of having failed ''to provide adequate oversight to key control and reporting functions within Fannie Mae.'' The report also said that Mr. Howard potentially had conflicts of interest because he played a role in setting the financial targets for the company as vice chairman at the same time he had to meet the targets as chief financial officer.
 With $1 trillion in assets and $53.8 billion in revenue, Fannie Mae ranks as the country's 20th-largest industrial corporation and is second among the three largest financial institutions in the country, between Citigroup and the Bank of America.
 The investigation was prompted by accounting scandals last year at Freddie Mac, the corporate cousin of Fannie Mae, which resulted in the ousting of several senior executives and a $125 million fine. Freddie Mac had understated earnings by $5 billion to make profits look less volatile. At the time, Fannie Mae's management had asserted that similar problems would not be found at Fannie Mae.
 The ongoing investigation is likely to give ammunition to lawmakers who have been pushing for tighter oversight of the two mortgage companies, which are government chartered but publicly traded. Until recently they had been exempt from filing to the S.E.C.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, began urging Congress last October to tighten regulation over the two rapidly growing corporations, which own or back almost half of the mortgages in the United States. Fueled by the housing market boom, Fannie Mae's mortgage portfolio has nearly doubled in the last five years, to $895.4 billion from $481 billion. In April, the Senate Banking Committee passed a proposal along a near party-line vote to strengthen government regulation, but no action has been taken by the full Senate.
 Ofheo has a budget of $38 million and 180 employees to regulate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which together have over 8,000 employees and a combined $90 billion in revenue.
 ''There have been those who, following the Freddie Mac scandal, insisted that it was not a big enough deal to require legislative action to improve the oversight of these housing finance giants,'' said Congressman Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana, who is chairman of the subcommittee that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. ''In light of today's revelations about Fannie Mae, my response is: Fool us once, shame on you. Fool us twice, shame on us.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (67%); LITIGATION (66%) Suits and Litigation; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (84%) Fannie Mae; Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight; Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison; Securities and Exchange Commission; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%)

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee; Warren B Rudman; Ann McLaughlin Korologos

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



481 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Antiques Arrayed in Paris. Americans Aren't.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MASON

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
WATCHING Chanel-clad Americans graze on foie gras as they pored over gilded 18th-century consoles and Ruhlmann cabinets at a preview of the 22nd Biennale des Antiquaires -- Europe's grandest antiques show -- you would never guess that there was a strain in French-American relations.
 But at an opening gala on Sept. 13, presided over by Bernadette Chirac, wife of the French president, American accents were scarce. Were American consumers of French decor avoiding Paris for political reasons, or have terrorist threats and the rising value of the euro scared them away? One dealer suggested that perhaps the rise of midcentury modern has dampened the American appetite for European antiques. 
 At the preview dealers stared with naked envy and expectation as Henry Kravis, the New York financier, and his wife, Marie-Josee Kravis, a French-Canadian economist, paused before a pair of sofa-size canvases by Jean-Francois de Troy with an asking price of $3.7 million. When the Kravises moved on, you could almost hear the dealer, Maurice Segoura, exhale. 
 Other participants whose every raised eyebrow and half-smile dealers scrutinized included Ronald Lauder, Christopher Forbes, Linda Wachner and Felix Rohatyn. But they were the exceptions this year, as Americans, who last year accounted for 60 percent of sales at the biennale, stayed away in droves. 
 Only 5 of the 56 members of the American Friends of the Biennale des Antiquaires, a six-year-old honorary committee that lends prestige to the fair, showed up for the opening, held in the bowels of the Louvre. (The show, open to the public, runs through Sept. 28. For information: www.biennaledesantiquaires.com.) 
 ''America is the leader of the world economy,'' said Jacques Perrin, a leading purveyor of 18th- and early-19th-century French decorative arts. ''But nobody is traveling.'' 
 Some blame Sept. 11, others a disdain for the French among supporters of the war in Iraq. With the added obstacle of a strong euro, the fair's organizers went to extravagant lengths to lure American collectors, offering them private peeks at the residences of Baron Guy de Rothschild and Count and Countess d'Ornano, lunch with the United States ambassador, drinks with the French culture minister and an after-hours visit to the Fondation Pierre Berge Yves Saint Laurent and its retrospective of Saint Laurent's work. 
 These and dozens of other entertainments were free to a handpicked list of 78 curators and museum trustees and 42 influential decorators, including Jamie Drake, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's interior designer. Also on board were Brian McCarthy and Sandra Nunnerly, designers best known for using 18th- and 19th-century antiques in modern interiors.
 The Americans who made the trip were able to wallow in the ministrations of French antiques dealers, who are among Europe's most adept flatterers. ''We're making a big effort to welcome the Americans because we depend very much on the American market,'' said Christian Deydier, a dealer in Chinese antiquities and the president of the Syndicat National des Antiquaires, the group that organizes the biennale. 
 He brushed aside talk of tension between the countries, exerting championship-level charm. ''We maybe had a bad position because we don't take part in the war,'' he said. ''But when we speak about art, we forget all the trouble over the decision between our president and your president. Don't forget that the Americans were Europeans first, eh? They came from France, from Germany, from Italy, a long time ago.
 ''So we are cousins,'' Mr. Deydier added, rather emphatically. ''Don't forget Lafayette!''
 Still, General Lafayette might have been taken aback by the heavily guarded American embassy and by the nearby Rue Boissy d'Anglas, which is blocked to traffic. ''My mother warned me not to come to Paris, and so did friends back home,'' said Sunny Brownstein, a Denver socialite, wearing giant pearl and diamond earrings as she chatted at the gala. Ms. Brownstein hit town with her 25-year-old daughter, Callae, staying at the Hotel Georges V between shopping forays.
 ''I'm not hearing any American voices at the hotel,'' Ms. Brownstein said. ''Just discreet Middle Easterners.''
 Low attendance by Americans may reflect a growing trend. ''The pattern of the American collectors has changed,'' said Thierry Millerand, an antiques consultant with offices in New York and Paris. ''They don't travel as much, period. And the market for good French furniture is very slow at the moment.'' 
 Mr. Millerand also noted with some distaste that ''decorators have been pushing 1950's and 1960's things.'' He continued: ''There's a strong market for museum-quality things bought by serious collectors. But it's a very small group. Maybe 20 in the world.''
 One of the museum-quality pieces on display at the biennale is an elaborate mechanical desk thought to have been made in 1755 by Jean-Francois Oeben, an important cabinetmaker. Shown by Philippe Perrin, it is made of oak, amaranth, tulipwood and ebony, with ormolu mounts. It went to an anonymous Parisian buyer for $1.85 million.
 Galerie Vallois, which specializes in early-20th-century furniture, is presenting a rare suite of furniture designed by Armand-Albert Rateau. It includes an oak desk with ebony marquetry, topped with leather, and it has never before been on the market. A drawer-pull bears the initials of its original owner, Marie Jeanne Lanvin. The entire stand was sold out on opening night. The buzz was that the mystery buyer was Mr. Kravis, who dined with the gallery owners, Bob and Cheska Vallois, at the gala. (Mr. Kravis declined to comment.)
 The relative quiet meant plenty of elbow room for serious buyers. The interior designer Lee Mindel purchased a 1962 table by Charlotte Perriand that was fashioned from a single piece of 13-foot-long wood. He declined to disclose the selling price, saying only that the desk was for an important American client.
 Another designer, Charlotte Moss, went back to New York with a list of items to propose to clients who had stayed home. She was at Jorge Welsh's stand admiring a blue-and-white Ming platter when a friend, Ann Nitze, walked by. ''That'll look wholesome at someone's next barbecue,'' Ms. Nitze, an art dealer, said dryly.
 Ms. Moss and Ms. Nitze said they wouldn't dream of skipping the biennale. ''How could you be in my business and not be here?'' Ms. Moss said.
 For some, the real excitement lay across the river, at a palatial building on the Quai Anatole France, where J. Kugel, a third-generation antiques business, opened its luxurious new showroom the night of the gala. The shop, in three floors of a riverfront hotel particulier clearly involved a sizable investment, but Alexis Kugel, 38, and Nicolas Kugel, 41, the brothers in charge, seem optimistic about finding buyers for their most expensive wares. ''The market for masterpieces is booming,'' Alexis Kugel said. He acknowledged that ''the market for middle-range items has never been so bad. 
 ''For me it shows that collectors are much more careful,'' he continued. ''We're trying to sell the highest quality in an appropriate setting. I'm very confident and optimistic. Of course if we weren't, we wouldn't have gone to all this trouble.''
 At the opening reception Pierre Merle, a New York lawyer, was being led around by Baroness Helene de Ludinghausen, the president of a foundation that is financing the restoration of the Stroganoff palace in St. Petersburg, Russia. Was Mr. Merle thinking of snapping up a 1755 ormolu candelabrum for the palace, with a price tag of $518,300? ''It's out of my league,'' said Mr. Merle, who went home empty-handed.
 Nicolas Kugel observed that there were fewer Americans than expected. ''We have a lot of French dukes and duchesses,'' he said, studying the crowd. Among the few Americans was Dodie Rosekrans, the San Francisco socialite, who peered at a huge Louis XVI bed, circa 1785, of royal provenance and attributed to G. Jacob, from the collection of Baron Guy de Rothschild. The price is about $395,000. ''I came just for this,'' she told Mr. Kugel, referring to the new gallery.
 John W. Teets, a former chairman of Greyhound and of Dial Soap, and his wife, Nancy, marveled at the Kugels' wares. ''I collect French Empire clocks,'' Mr. Teets said. ''I've got about 60 of them. All 1810-1820, gold ormolu.'' Three clocks were on display, but Mr. Teets, too, left without making a purchase.
 The Teetses are members of the American Friends of the Louvre, a group that raises money for the museum. They had been weekend guests of Mr. Forbes, the chairman of the group, who had rounded up 22 lively prospects at his family's chateau in Normandy. So far, so good. Mr. Forbes has already raised nearly $1 million. 
 He said that he had qualms initially, given the tensions between the two countries, but found that his fund-raising met with no resistance, even when he requested a minimum gift of $10,000 for those wishing to join the chairman's circle. ''Maybe people have forgotten that the Louvre's in France,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PARIS IN SEPTEMBER -- Claude Pompidou, above left, the widow of Georges Pompidou, browsed at the J. Kugel showroom. Henry and Marie-Josee Kravis, above, were spotted at the big antiques fair under the Louvre
left, Ann Nitze and Charlotte Moss (on right) were also on the lookout. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. F11)
 CULTURAL EXCHANGE -- Dodie Rosekrans, at the J. Kugel showroom, and her find: a $395,000 Louis XVI bed. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); EURO (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); VISUAL ARTS (62%) Antiques

ORGANIZATION: Biennale Des Antiquaires (Paris)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (77%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) Christopher Mason

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%) Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



482 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Hope Amid the Rubble

BYLINE: By Peter Bergen. 
Peter Bergen is a fellow at the New America Foundation and an adjunct professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
Based on what Americans have been seeing in the news media about Afghanistan lately, there may not be many who believed President Bush on Tuesday when he told the United Nations that the ''Afghan people are on the path to democracy and freedom.'' But then again, not many Americans know what Afghanistan was like before the American-led invasion. Let me offer some perspective.
 This summer I visited Kandahar, the former Taliban stronghold in southern Afghanistan, for the first time since the winter of 1999. Five years ago, the Taliban and its Al Qaeda allies were at the height of their power. They had turned Afghanistan into a terrorist state, with more than a dozen training camps churning out thousands of jihadist graduates every year. 
 The scene was very different this time around. The Kandahar airport, where I had once seen Taliban soldiers showing off their antiaircraft missiles, is now a vast American base with thousands of soldiers, as well as a 24-hour coffee shop, a North Face clothing store, a day spa and a PX the size of a Wal-Mart. Next door, what was once a base for Osama bin Laden is now an American shooting range. In downtown Kandahar, the gaudy compound of the Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, now houses United States Special Forces units. 
 As I toured other parts of the country, the image that I was prepared for -- that of a nation wracked by competing warlords and in danger of degenerating into a Colombia-style narcostate -- never materialized. Undeniably, the drug trade is a serious concern (it now compromises about a third of the country's gross domestic product) and the slow pace of disarming the warlords is worrisome. 
 Over the last three years, however, most of the important militia leaders, like Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum of the Uzbek community in the country's north, have shed their battle fatigues for the business attire of the politicians they hope to become. It's also promising that some three million refugees have returned to Afghanistan since the fall of the Taliban. Kabul, the capital, is now one of the fastest-growing cities in the world, with spectacular traffic jams and booming construction sites. And urban centers around the country are experiencing similar growth. 
 While two out of three Afghans cited security as their most pressing concern in a poll taken this summer by the International Republican Institute, four out of five respondents also said things are better than they were two years ago. Despite dire predictions from many Westerners, the presidential election, scheduled for Oct. 9, now looks promising. Ten million Afghans have registered to vote, far more than were anticipated, and almost half of those who have signed up are women. Indeed, one of the 18 candidates for president is a woman. Even in Kandahar, more then 60 percent of the population has registered to vote, while 45 percent have registered in Uruzgan Province, the birthplace of Mullah Omar. With these kinds of numbers registering, it seems possible that turnout will be higher than the one-third of eligible voters who have participated in recent American presidential elections. 
 According to a poll taken in July by the Asia Foundation, President Hamid Karzai is drawing substantial support around the country. He has emerged not only as a popular leader, but also as a shrewd player of the kind of hardball politics that would have warmed the heart of Lyndon Johnson. This summer he dropped his running mate, Mohammad Fahim, a power-hungry general who had pompously awarded himself the title of field marshal after the fall of the Taliban. And this month Mr. Karzai forced Ismail Khan, the governor of the western province of Herat, to resign. These moves not only neutralized two powerful rivals, men who could field their own private armies, but also increased the stability of the central government.
 What we are seeing in Afghanistan is far from perfect, but it's better than so-so. Disputes that would once have been settled with the barrel of a gun are now increasingly being dealt with politically. The remnants of the Taliban are doing what they can to disrupt the coming election, but their attacks, aimed at election officials, American forces and international aid workers, are sporadic and strategically ineffective. 
 If the elections are a success, it will send a powerful signal to neighboring countries like Pakistan, Iran, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, none of which can claim to be representative democracies. If so, the democratic domino effect, which was one of the Bush administration's arguments for the Iraq war, may be more realistic in Central Asia than it has proved to be in the Middle East.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Luba Lukova) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TALIBAN (92%); TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFUGEES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (53%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); RELIGION (51%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Immigration and Refugees; Public Opinion; Elections; Politics and Government; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations; Taliban (Afghan Group); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Peter Bergen; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



483 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Former Chief Executive Of Software Firm Indicted
A federal grand jury charged Sanjay Kumar, left, the former chairman and chief executive of Computer Associates, with securities fraud and obstruction of justice, in what may be the last major criminal white-collar case to come out of the accounting scandals of the late 1990's.
 Along with Mr. Kumar, the grand jury indicted Stephen Richards, the company's former executive vice president for worldwide sales, on similar charges. [Page A1.]

Trump's Deal for Financing Fails
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, the flagship of Donald J. Trump's casino holdings, said that a deal to inject fresh money into the debt-laden company had fallen apart, raising doubts about the future of the company. [C8.]

US Airways Gives Unions a Deadline
US Airways gave its unions until tomorrow to agree to emergency contract concessions. Otherwise, the airline said, it would ask a court to impose temporary pay cuts. [C2.]

Shell Outlines Long-Term Strategy
The Royal Dutch/Shell Group said that it would sell as much as $12 billion in assets, spend $45 billion on new projects and consider some acquisitions. [C8.]

Ernst & Young Avoids Suspension
Ernst & Young has escaped being suspended from doing audit work in California and has agreed to accept three years of probation as a result of its ties with PeopleSoft. [C3.]

Automakers Criticize Emission Plan
Automakers attacked a California plan to regulate certain automotive emissions. [C3.]

Verizon Wireless Expands Network
Verizon Wireless said that it would expand its wireless high-speed data network into 14 cities including New York and Los Angeles. [C5.]

Bakery Company Files Chapter 11
Interstate Bakeries, the nation's largest wholesale baker, said that it had filed for bankruptcy protection as consumers seemed to lose their taste for the company's bread and pastries, many of which have been a staple for more than 70 years. [C5.]

Kodak Raises Growth Forecast
Eastman Kodak raised its growth forecast for digital products and services. [C4.]

Sale of YM Magazine Explored
Gruner & Jahr Publishing USA, attempting to stem its losses after circulation scandals and the messy demise of Rosie magazine, told employees it was exploring the sale of YM, the company's faltering teenage magazine. [C2.]

Profit Drops at Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns posted drops in quarterly profit, surprising some investors one day after two other investment banks reported a rise in earnings. Morgan Stanley said profit dropped by a third on lower bond trading revenue, weak equities results and higher expenses, falling short of Wall Street's expectations and causing its stock to fall. [C8.]

FedEx said its profit more than doubled in the fiscal first quarter as international air shipments rose 25 percent. [C3.]

Good Stock Advice or Online Noise?
Two economists analyze whether stock tips from Internet message boards are worth reading. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. [C2.]

Courting the Small-Business Owner
The presidential candidates are paying attention to entrepreneurs. Small Business. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,109.18 down 135.75Nasdaq composite -- 1,885.71 down 35.4710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.98% down 0.06The euro -- $1.2262 down 0.0062The dollar -- 110.52 yen up 0.76Graph ''TODAY'' shows the percentage change in Leading Indicators from Feb.-July 2004August figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.2%Graph tracks the share price of Morgan Stanley since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BAKERIES (86%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (86%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SCANDALS (78%); PROBATION (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CASINOS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RESORTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); WHOLESALERS (68%); MISC FOOD WHOLESALERS (68%); BAKED GOODS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); SHIPMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (71%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (64%); CA INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); CA (NASDAQ) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (71%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



484 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Automakers Attack Proposal To Address Global Warming

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Automakers on Wednesday attacked a California plan to regulate automotive emissions of global warming gases.
 The state's proposal ''clearly goes far beyond what is reasonable and achievable,'' said Fred Webber, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a lobbying group that includes all of the major automakers except Honda and Nissan. 
 Mr. Webber spoke at a news conference a day before the California Air Resources Board is scheduled to begin two days of hearings on a plan to reduce automotive global warming emissions about 30 percent by the 2016 model year. A vote on the plan is expected Friday. 
 The plan, if it is approved and survives legal challenges, would have enormous implications for the efficiency of cars and trucks sold in California. It could also affect Northeastern states like New York that follow California's air pollution rules. It would be several years before a plan would begin to take effect, however, and a legal challenge is likely from the industry. 
 The Bush administration and other Republicans have generally rejected efforts to regulate global warming. But in California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has said he supports the emissions plan, which was signed by Gray Davis, the former Democratic governor.
 Automakers have criticized the plan before, but they attacked it more directly Wednesday on several fronts. One of their main arguments is that the plan is pre-empted by Washington's authority to regulate fuel economy, because improving a car's fuel efficiency is by far the most significant way to cut emissions linked to climate change.
 ''This proposal is really a fuel economy rule and as such is clearly pre-empted by federal law,'' said Mr. Webber. ''A lawsuit is certainly an option, especially when you're looking into the pre-emption issue,'' he added. 
 But emissions can be reduced modestly in ways other than improving fuel efficiency, for example by making changes to a car's air-conditioning system. 
 Part of the legal dispute centers on whether gases linked to global warming can be considered pollutants. If so, California has the authority to set its own air pollution regulations. But under the Bush administration, the Environmental Protection Agency no longer considers greenhouse gases to be pollutants. California and several other states are suing the agency on the decision. 
 ''California has the clear authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an air pollutant,'' said Roland Hwang, a senior policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''We believe that attacking these global warming pollution standards is a losing proposition, both legally and politically.''
 Mr. Webber said that the industry estimated that California consumers would have to pay $3,000 more upfront for the average automobile when the plan was phased in. The state has estimated a $626 increased cost for cars and $955 for sport utility vehicles and other trucks, which would be easier to make up over time by saving money at the pump.
 Mr. Webber also said that the plan as currently outlined ''does not claim any significant air quality benefit and does not even attempt to quantify a single health benefit.''
 Environmentalists, citing a growing body of scientific research, have said that reducing emissions linked to climate change is an urgent concern. They cite trends including higher ozone levels, which contribute to health problems including asthma, as well as increased infectious disease and heat-related deaths. 
 Alliance officials said they believed global warming was a legitimate issue but did not have their own plan for addressing tailpipe emissions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); GLOBAL WARMING (93%); EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%) Air Pollution; Global Warming; Weather; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Automobiles; Air Pollution

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%) Fred Webber; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



485 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17

Iraqi Elections Face Delay As Leading Cleric Wavers
Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the powerful Shiite cleric, has threatened to withdraw his support for nationwide elections unless changes are made to the electoral system. A1

Terror Web Sites Under Fire
Federal officials are trying to prosecute operators of Web sites that recruit terrorists, raising alarms among civil libertarians. A12

NATO to Train Iraqi Officers
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed to the outlines of a military officer training program in Iraq, expanding the alliance's presence there. A14

Briton's Beheading Threatened
A militant group that beheaded two American engineers this week posted a video on the Internet showing a third hostage, Kenneth Bigley, a Briton, pleading for his life. A16

Powell Voices Concern
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell joined with senior envoys from Europe, Russia and the United Nations to express ''deep concern'' about the absence of progress in easing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . A3

A Palestinian suicide bomber blew herself up and killed two Israeli policemen who had confronted her in Jerusalem, officials said. A3

Iran's Plans Widen Rift
Iran's goal of producing uranium fuel for nuclear technology is widening a rift between nations that see the technology as the entitlement of the signatories to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and those that do not. A5

Musharraf Not Pressured
President Bush met with President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan, but made little effort to persuade General Musharraf to hold to his promise to step down as the chief of the army, officials said. A17

NATIONAL A18-24

House-Senate Committee Agrees to Continue Tax Cuts
Republican and Democratic leaders agreed to extend $145 billion worth of tax cuts sought by President Bush without trying to pay for them. A1

'Combatant' to Be Freed
Yaser E. Hamdi, an American citizen captured in Afghanistan and held incommunicado for more than two years as an enemy combatant, will be allowed to return to Saudi Arabia. A1

Goss Confirmed as C.I.A. Chief
The Senate voted to confirm the nomination of Representative Porter J. Goss, Republican of Florida, as director of central intelligence. A22

Bush and Kerry on the Trail
President Bush returned to a swing state, Pennsylvania, trumpeting his record on education and portraying Senator John Kerry as too indecisive a leader for a nation at war. A23

Mr. Kerry, in Florida, contended that the president had not leveled with the American people on Social Security and Medicare. A24

Discount Drug Cards in the Mail
The Bush administration said it would send discount drug cards to Medicare beneficiaries, some 1.8 million eligible people, with low incomes who have not applied. A18

Lawyers Open Tobacco Defense
Lawyers for the nation's biggest tobacco companies mounted their defense against racketeering charges, insisting that mistakes made in the past did not constitute fraud. A22

ARTS E1-10

Help for Unemployed Actors
Governor Pataki signed a bill that will use state money to help performers maintain their health insurance during bouts of unemployment. E3

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

In Final Days, McGreevey Toughens Finance Rules
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey issued an executive order that attempts to break the link between political contributions and the awarding of government contracts. A1

Ex-Official Lacked Degrees
A former New York City public school official who admitted to falsifying her teaching credentials also lied about earning bachelor's and master's degrees, officials at two City University colleges said. B1

Trade-Ins for Faulty Locks
Kryptonite, a top maker of bicycle locks, said it planned to give customers new locks at no charge after Web sites posted videos showing that some can be opened with a pen. B3

Conduct Panel Cites Judge
The state Judicial Conduct Commission may seek to remove one of Brooklyn's most powerful Democratic judges, according to a person familiar with the case. B3

CIRCUITS G1-10

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES A25

Edward Larrabee Barnes
A New York architect who cherished the clarity and functionality he learned from the Modernist masters, he was 89. A25

Russ Meyer
The filmmaker often credited with inventing the ''skin flick'' as a commercial proposition, he was 82. A25

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Fannie Mae Investigated
A federal report accusing Fannie Mae of improper accounting activity has led to an informal investigation by the S.E.C., the company said. C1

Oil Prices Rise, Stocks Fall
Crude oil prices jumped to within striking distance of $50 a barrel. The major stock market gauges fell more than 1 percent. C1

Soldiers to Receive Refunds
Hundreds of soldiers who signed up for high-cost life insurance will receive refunds from the company whose agents sold the policies, a spokesman for the company said. C1

CBS Fined for Halftime Show
The Federal Communications Commission issued a $550,000 fine against CBS because of an incident in which Janet Jackson's breast was bared. C1

China to Meet With G-7
China will meet with the Group of 7 nations for the first time. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: How not to save Social Security; California's stem cell challenge.

Columns: Henry Louis Gates Jr., Maureen Dowd.

Bridge B6
TV Listings B9
Crossword B7
Weather C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (74%); LAWYERS (73%); INTERNET VIDEO (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (66%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (57%); POLICE FORCES (57%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



486 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Accelerating Decline in Corporate Taxes

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
America's largest and most profitable companies paid less in corporate income taxes in the last three years, even as they increased profits, according to a study released yesterday. 
 Companies have always used write-offs, depreciation, deductions and loopholes to lower their taxes, but the study, by Citizens for Tax Justice and its affiliate, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, suggested that tax breaks and subsidies enacted during the Bush administration had accelerated the decline in tax payments. 
 The study also cited the proliferation of abusive tax shelters and increasingly aggressive corporate lobbying as fueling the decline in tax payments by corporations. 
 The study was done by nonprofit research and advocacy groups that have been supported in part by labor unions. They contend that the tax system favors wealthy corporations and individuals. 
 The study, Corporate Income Taxes in the Bush Years, surveyed public filings by 275 of the nation's largest and most profitable companies, based on revenue from the Fortune 500 list of 2004. The 275 companies reported pretax profits from operations in the United States of $1.1 trillion from 2001 through 2003, the study said, yet reported to the Internal Revenue Service and paid taxes on half that amount. 
 Robert S. McIntyre, the lead author of the study, wrote, ''The fact that America's companies were allowed to report less than half of their actual U.S. profits to the I.R.S., while ordinary wage earners have to report every penny of their earnings, has to undermine public respect for the tax system.'' 
 The 275 companies surveyed include nearly all of the 2004 Fortune 500 companies that were profitable from 2001 through 2003. The list excluded those that reported losses in any year, including General Motors and Ford; certain companies whose finances were considered too opaque to decipher; and about 25 companies to maintain a balance.
 The study cited, among other things, tax breaks enacted in 2002 and 2003 as prompting the decline in corporate payments. Such tax breaks, as used by the 275 companies, totaled more than $175 billion over the last three years, including $71 billion last year, up from $43.4 billion in 2001. That compares, roughly, with $98 billion in tax breaks for the top 250 profitable companies over 1996 through 1998, according to a similar study by Citizens for Tax Justice in 2000.
 Not all experts agreed with the study's findings. William W. Beach, a tax policy expert at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington, said that even though the study surveyed the top 275 companies, he did not find it ''typical of corporate America,'' adding that smaller and midsize businesses were ''paying a lot in taxes.'' 
 According to the study, some 28 corporations paid no taxes from 2001 to 2003, despite having profits in the period of nearly $45 billion. 
 Industry sectors that paid the lowest taxes or no taxes included aerospace and military, telecommunications, transportation, and industrial and farm equipment. 
 The 2000 study found that from 1996 to 1998, 11 of the 250 largest and most profitable companies paid no taxes, even though all reported profits. The earlier study found that the 250 companies showed a 23.5 percent increase in pretax profit, while the tax payments rose 7.7 percent. 
 The current study seemed to echo government data. Commerce Department figures showed that pretax corporate profit rose 26 percent from 2001 to 2003 but that corporate tax payments fell 21 percent.
 Corporate taxes as a share of the national economy are at their lowest sustained level since World War II, the study said, and financed only 6 percent of government expenses in the last two fiscal years. 
 The current study found that nearly one in three companies, or 82, of the 275 examined paid no federal income tax in at least one year from 2001 to 2003, the period covered by the study. In the period, 82 companies had pretax profit of $102 billion.
 Last year, 46 of the 275 companies surveyed paid no federal income tax, up from 42 companies in 2002 and 33 in 2001, according to the study. Over all, the number of companies that paid no taxes increased 40 percent during the period.
 The current study attributed lower corporate payments in part to legislation supported by President Bush and enacted by Congress in 2002 that increased accelerated depreciation, an accounting move that allows profitable companies to write off capital investments and claim tax deferrals. Accelerated depreciation was intended in part to encourage capital investment, but the study argued that it had done the opposite. Capital investment by corporations dropped 12 percent in 2002 and 3 percent in 2003, the years when Congress enacted the new accelerated depreciation rules. 
 As a result, Mr. McIntyre concluded, ''the $175 billion in revenues lost to the 2002- and 2003-enacted tax breaks appears to have been exceedingly poorly spent.''
 Mr. Beach disagreed, saying that rates of capital investment were at historic highs. ''We're seeing an investment surge that's so strong that you have to go back to the 1960's before you see a comparable one.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Tax Advantage for Business''The effective federal tax rate for corporations has dropped significantly since 1988 and now reflects a tiny share of the nation's economic activity.EFFECTIVE AVERAGE CORPORATE TAX RATERonald W. Reagan1986: 14.0%1988: 26.5Bill Clinton1996-98: 21.7George W. Bush2001: 21.42002: 17.12003: 17.2Graph tracks the corporate tax as a percentage of G.D.P. since 1960.(Source by Citizens for Tax Justice and the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); CORPORATE TAX (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); DEPRECIATION (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); WRITERS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (54%) Taxation; Tax Evasion; Tax Shelters; Corporations; Law and Legislation ; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Taxation

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%) Citizens for Tax Justice (Orgn); Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Robert S McIntyre; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



487 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: DEAL IN CONGRESS TO KEEP TAX CUTS, WIDENING DEFICIT

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Putting aside efforts to control the federal deficit before the elections, Republican and Democratic leaders agreed Wednesday to extend $145 billion worth of tax cuts sought by President Bush without trying to pay for them.
 At a House-Senate conference committee, Democratic lawmakers abandoned efforts to pay for the measures by either imposing a surcharge on wealthy families or closing corporate tax shelters.
 ''I wish we could pay for them, but this is a political problem and we have people up for re-election,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. ''If you have to explain that you voted for these tax cuts because they benefit the middle class and against them because of the deficit, you've got a problem.'' 
 Fearful of being attacked as supporters of higher taxes, Democrats said they would go along with an unpaid five-year extension of the $1,000 child tax credit; a four-year extension of tax breaks intended to reduce the so-called marriage penalty on two-income families; and a six-year extension of a provision that allowed more people to qualify for the lowest tax rate of 10 percent. 
 Even as they pushed for the cuts that will add to the federal budget deficit, House Republican lawmakers said Wednesday that they hoped to have a vote soon on a constitutional amendment that would require the government to balance the budget by 2010, except if the country is at war.
 That proposed amendment has no chance of becoming law, but it would conflict with even the Bush administration's rosiest goals for reducing the deficit, which is expected to hit $420 billion this year, a record. Mr. Bush has promised only to cut the deficit in half by 2009.
 Approval of the tax cut package is a significant victory for Mr. Bush, who champions the extension of the cuts at every campaign stop but whose wishes had been thwarted by Democrats and a handful of Republican moderates in the Senate.
 As recently as July, the moderates demanded that such tax cuts be paid for either with budget cuts or with higher taxes in other areas. By teaming up with Democrats, the Republican moderates prevented their own party leaders and the Bush administration from getting their way.
 But with the election nearing, Congressional Democrats said they would not let themselves be branded as supporters of tax increases, which would occur if the expiring provisions were not renewed. 
 Senator John Kerry, their party's presidential nominee, has said he supports extension of the tax reductions, though he would roll back Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the top 2 percent of income earners, families with annual incomes above $200,000. 
 Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, announced this week that he would support a five-year extension of the cuts even if they were not paid for.
 With Democrats capitulating to the Republican majorities in both the House and Senate, the handful of Republican holdouts have quietly surrendered as well.
 The Republican rebels -- Senators John McCain of Arizona, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island and Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine -- infuriated Mr. Bush and many Republican leaders. But their ability to block action evaporated without the votes of Democrats.
 The result of the reversal on the part of the Democrats and the Republican moderates is likely to be a tax measure that will last longer and increase federal deficits more than a two-year extension that Republican Senate leaders offered this summer. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that debt will climb by $2.3 trillion over the next 10 years, and that making all Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent would cost an additional $1.9 trillion by the end of 2014.
 In the conference committee, House and Senate Republicans added about $13 billion worth of business tax breaks, the biggest of which was a renewal of the investment tax credit for research and development.
 House Republican conferees also rejected a proposed amendment by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, that would expand the number of poor families eligible for a refundable child tax credit. That measure would have cost $7 billion over 10 years.
 According to studies by Democrats on the Joint Economic Committee, four million low-income families will have reduced benefits from the child tax credit if the law is unchanged.
 ''These are working people we are trying to help,'' Senator Lincoln said, adding, ''The higher-income taxpayers get enormous benefits from the tax code.''
 At issue in the case of the child tax credit was the extent to which it should be made available as a refundable payment to low-income families that have no federal tax liability. 
 To save money in last year's tax bill, Republican lawmakers decided to offer a refundable tax credit to families that earn at least $10,000. But that still left many poor families ineligible, and those numbers would increase because the current law raises the minimum income threshold each year in line with inflation.
 ''The tax credit is for taxpayers,'' said Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma. ''If you want to change the welfare system, then change the welfare system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%) Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Tax Shelters; National Debt (US); Taxation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



488 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: A Chance of Success Slips Away

BYLINE: By J Alexander Thier. 
J Alexander Thier, a fellow at the Hoover Institution and the Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law at Stanford University, was a legal adviser to Afghanistan's constitutional and judicial reform commissions.

DATELINE: Stanford, Calif. 

 BODY:
President Bush describes Afghanistan, the first front on the war on terrorism, as a success. In comparison to Iraq, perhaps it is. But if you look at Afghanistan on its own merits, the lack of progress is disheartening. In 2002, President Bush promised a ''Marshall Plan'' for the country, with the goal of turning Afghanistan into a stable, democratic state. On Tuesday, before the United Nations General Assembly, the president said that ''the Afghan people are on the path to democracy and freedom.'' Yet in nearly three years we have failed to create security, stability, prosperity or the rule of law in Afghanistan. 
 These failings are not just a reflection of the great difficulties of nation-building in places like Afghanistan, they are also the direct result of the Bush administration's policy decisions. Our efforts in Afghanistan are underfinanced and undermanned, and our attention is waning. 
 The root of the problem is that we invaded Afghanistan to destroy something -- the Taliban and Al Qaeda -- but we didn't think much about what would grow in its place. While we focused on fighting the terrorists (and even there our effectiveness has been questionable), Afghanistan has become a collection of warlord-run fiefs fueled by a multibillion-dollar opium economy. We armed and financed warlord armies with records of drug-running and human rights abuses stretching back two decades. Then we blocked the expansion of an international security force meant to rein in the militias. These decisions were made for short-term battlefield gain -- with disregard for the long-term implications for the mission there. 
 Our Army continues to hunt insurgents in the mountains, but we have refused to take the steps necessary to secure the rest of the country, and it shows. More coalition and Afghan government soldiers and aid workers have died this year than in each of the previous two. This summer, Doctors Without Borders, which has worked in the most desperate and dangerous conditions around the world, pulled out of Afghanistan after 24 years. In other words, the group felt safer in Afghanistan during the Soviet occupation and the civil war that followed than it did three years after the United States-led coalition toppled the Taliban.
 Last month, after a United Nations-backed voter registration office was bombed, the vice president of the United Nations Staff Union urged Secretary General Kofi Annan to pull employees out of Afghanistan. The opium trade is also out of control, fueling lawlessness and financing terrorists. Last year, the trade brought in $2.3 billion; this year, opium production is expected to increase 50 to 100 percent. 
 Amid terrorist attacks and fighting among regional warlords, the country is preparing for presidential elections on Oct. 9. A recent United Nations report warned that warlords were intimidating voters and candidates. This month, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which has monitored post-conflict elections in trouble spots like Bosnia and Kosovo, declared that Afghanistan was too dangerous for its election monitors (it is sending a small ''election support team'' instead). President Hamid Karzai narrowly escaped assassination last week on his first campaign trip outside Kabul, and eight other presidential candidates have called for elections to be delayed, saying it's been too dangerous for them to campaign. 
 Many of these problems flow from early mistakes. Rather than moving quickly to establish security and then gradually turning over control to a legitimate domestic authority, we have done the opposite. As fighting among warlord militias in the countryside intensifies, we are slowly expanding our presence and being dragged into conflicts. The American ''advisers'' in Afghan Army units, the ubiquitous heavily armed ''private'' security forces and the fortress-like American Embassy are garnering comparisons to the day of the Soviets.
 In Kabul, the effort to build a stable, capable government has also lagged dangerously. President Karzai has begun to show great fortitude in challenging warlords. But his factious cabinet, born of political compromise, has collapsed under the pressure of the country's hurried presidential elections. Outside Kabul, his control remains tenuous in some places, nonexistent in others. Kabul's Supreme Court, the only other branch of government, is controlled by Islamic fundamentalists unconcerned with the dictates of Afghanistan's new Constitution. On Sept. 1, without any case before the court, the chief justice ordered that Latif Pedram, a presidential candidate, be barred from the elections and investigated for blasphemy. His crime? Mr. Pedram had suggested that polygamy was unfair to women. These clerics are trying to establish a system like that in Iran, using Islam as a bludgeon against democracy.
 It's true that there have been several important accomplishments in these three years: the Taliban and Al Qaeda no longer sit in Kabul's Presidential Palace; girls are back in school in many parts of the country; some roads and buildings have been rebuilt; and more than 10 million Afghans have registered to vote for the presidential elections. Thousands of international aid workers have been working with the Afghans, often at great risk, to make things better. Despite the slow progress, most Afghans are more hopeful about their future than they have been in years. 
 But many people working there are left with the nagging feeling that much more could have been done both to help Afghanistan and fight terrorism over the last three years. Our experience demonstrates that you can't fight wars, or do nation-building, on the cheap. Afghanistan should be a critical election issue this year, but Iraq looms much larger in the public mind. Unless the next administration steps up to the plate, it may well be an issue in four years, when we start asking, ''Who lost Afghanistan?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OPIUM (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); NARCOTERRORISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); BUDGETS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Constitutions; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Foreign Aid; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); MARSHALL PLAN (58%) Taliban (Afghan Group); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) J Alexander Thier; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%) Afghanistan; United States; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



489 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: How Not to Save Social Security

 BODY:
Among the clear-cut policy differences between President Bush and Senator John Kerry is each man's take on Social Security. In his acceptance speech at the Republican convention, Mr. Bush said, ''We must strengthen Social Security by allowing younger workers to save some of their taxes in a personal account.'' Mr. Kerry, in his acceptance speech, said, ''I will not privatize Social Security.'' 
 Mr. Kerry is right, and Mr. Bush is wrong. The president's plan would do the opposite of what Mr. Bush claims. It would weaken Social Security, hurt the economy and endanger many workers' retirements by pushing them into unreasonable risks in the stock market. If Mr. Bush were a broker peddling stocks to low-income, uninsured, indebted individuals like many of the Americans who would be included in his plan, he would be violating rules that require brokers to recommend only suitable investments. 
 When responsible politicians talk about ''fixing'' Social Security, what they generally mean is finding a way to guarantee a basic level of financial security for the elderly while closing the gap that will develop over time in the system's finances if nothing is done. Social Security's trustees plan for solvency over 75 years. Currently, the program is projected to come up short in 2042, when it will be able to pay about 70 percent of the promised benefits. That's a lot of money, but the gap can be bridged over the next 38 years with a package of modest reforms, which we will discuss in a future editorial.
 What Mr. Bush proposes -- allowing workers to divert some of their Social Security taxes into personal investment accounts in exchange for agreeing in advance to receive a much-reduced guaranteed government benefit when they retire -- would neither provide retirement security, nor take care of the solvency of the Social Security system. And it would wreak havoc with the overall federal budget.
 In proposing personal accounts, Mr. Bush has promised to retain the current benefits for today's retirees and for those who are nearing retirement. So for some 40 years, workers would be making deposits into their accounts with tax money that -- under the current system -- would have been used to pay the benefits of those who are retired. The government would have to make up the difference, and Mr. Bush has no reasonable plan for covering this cost, which is estimated to be at least $1 trillion.
 That leaves three general possibilities: immense government borrowing, draconian cuts in other programs or higher taxes. In a 1997 report by President Bill Clinton's Advisory Council on Social Security, those who favored ample mandatory personal accounts proposed a national sales tax of 1 percent and $1.2 trillion in government borrowing. 
 If offsetting steps were not taken immediately, the reduced cash flow in the transition period would drive the Social Security trust fund into the red about 15 years earlier than is currently projected. That, too, would require wrenching fiscal moves -- borrowing, spending cuts, tax increases -- to avoid default on the government's obligation to retirees. 
 When workers in a partly privatized system reached retirement, they would find that higher interest rates caused by huge deficits, reductions in government services or higher taxes had offset some -- if not all -- of the sums they had accumulated in personal accounts. And they would get smaller government benefits than they would if Social Security had been reformed in a more sensible way.
 However Social Security is reformed, when younger workers retire, their benefits are likely to be smaller than the benefits promised to current retirees. But a partly privatized system would produce a cut that's likely to be bigger and an income that would be far less reliable. That's because the government benefit is cut more deeply under privatization, and how much you can actually accumulate in a personal account would depend on the stock market. Anyone who lived through the 1990's knows that investing in stocks can leave you with less than you started with. 
 Privatization would invite overexposure to the stock market -- a risk that is not justified by the potential return. Most people who already save for retirement rely heavily on stock investments through 401(k)'s and other savings plans. Even workers who have traditional pensions are more exposed to the stock market than ever, as employers increasingly strive for outsized stock market returns to make up for inadequate contributions to their plans. 
 And people without pensions or enough income to save money in retirement plans generally do not belong in the stock market at all. Stock investing makes sense only after you have accumulated an emergency cash reserve, are adequately insured and have paid off consumer debt. Personal accounts within Social Security would perpetuate the wrongheaded notion that the stock market can bail everyone out. It can't. Mr. Bush does everyone a disservice by implying that it will. 
 The personal account idea also does nothing about another big reason that Social Security needs reforming: people are living longer. Unless the government mandates that people convert their personal accounts into private annuities, retirees are in danger of outliving their money, leaving them to survive on the meager government benefit. And they would lose the inflation protection built into government benefits, which is increasingly important the longer you live. Those most at risk of impoverishment are old women, who live three years longer than men on average and are far less likely to have private pensions. 
 There is a broad social argument against privatization, which is that we all lose if our fellow citizens come up short in their quest for secure retirements. By taking the financial risk out of growing old, Social Security has had remarkable results for society at large. Poverty among the elderly is now 10 percent, down from 30 percent in 1960. Like any sound insurance system, Social Security works by broadly pooling risks. It protects everyone because it includes everyone. Personal accounts move Social Security away from a comprehensive system to one in which it's increasingly every man for himself.
 None of these arguments deter Mr. Bush and other advocates of personal accounts. For them, Social Security is primarily an ideological struggle. Social Security supports retirees by shifting income from the young to the old via taxes, and from the rich to the poor via the formula for calculating benefits. To Mr. Bush and his supporters, taxation and redistribution are anathema, and Social Security is an anticapitalist ploy to squelch initiative and growth. Those same arguments were leveled against Social Security when President Franklin Roosevelt established it in 1935, and when its constitutionality was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1937.

Campaign 2004/The Big Issues: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AGING (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%) Social Security (US); Editorials; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Privatization; Social Security (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



490 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Double at FedEx, But Wall St. Punishes Stock

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
FedEx, the No.2 American package carrier after United Parcel Service, said yesterday that its profit had more than doubled in the fiscal first quarter, as international air shipments rose 25 percent, led by 52 percent growth in freight from China. 
 But the company's stock fell $3.48, to $85.21, on concern that it would not be able to sustain its growth rate. The shares are up 26 percent this year. 
 Kirk Schmitt, an analyst at KeyBank, which held 1.3 million FedEx shares as of June, said that recent gains had been helped by expense reductions, but that ''most of the cost savings from the restructuring are behind them.'' 
 Net income at FedEx, based in Memphis, rose 158 percent to $330 million, or $1.08 a share, in the quarter ended Aug. 31, from $128 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier. Revenue increased 23 percent, to $6.98 billion. The $1.08-a-share profit met estimates of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 Last month, FedEx raised its quarterly profit forecast, to as much as $1.10 a share -- 2 cents less than it reported yesterday -- and its annual forecast to as much as $4.60, citing increased international and domestic manufacturing. In the United States, factory orders have risen for 14 consecutive months, buoying truck-shipment revenue.
 Ground shipments, mainly for packages, increased 16 percent, indicating that FedEx was taking market share from U.P.S., said Donald Broughton, an analyst with A.G. Edwards, who has a hold rating on the shares. ''Demand for world air cargo is surging,'' Mr. Broughton said, adding that FedEx ''is the biggest carrier in that business.''
 But Jon Langenfeld, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Company, said the stock was being hurt by a drop in overnight package shipments in the United States, adding that higher fuel prices were prompting customers to use less expensive ground carriers. Stocks fell broadly yesterday, with leading indexes down more than 1 percent. 
 Frederick W. Smith, the chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call that FedEx was adding 12 weekly flights to China in the next year to the existing 23. 
 The company has forecast profit this quarter at $1.10 to $1.20 a share, compared with Thomson Financial's average estimate of $1.15.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A FedEx truck threads its way through Hong Kong traffic. The carrier's quarterly profit rose, in part on growth in freight from the China region. (Photo by FedEx/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Company Reports ; Delivery Services

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (65%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); KEYCORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Fedex Corp

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (95%); UPS (NYSE) (58%); KEY (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (95%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (95%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



491 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: VOTING BLOCS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Politicians Go Courting on Indian Reservations

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW; Eli Sanders contributed reporting from Seattle for this article.

DATELINE: ROSEBUD INDIAN RESERVATION, S.D., Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Something remarkable happened at the annual powwow of the Rosebud Sioux here last month. Before thousands of American Indians gathered on the prairie grass of this vast reservation on the northern Plains, the tribal president gave Senator Tom Daschle a red feather.
 White men rarely receive the feather, a sacred tribal honor bestowed on Indian veterans, and some at the powwow later said they were shocked and offended.
 Mr. Daschle, who is locked in a tight and vicious race with his Republican challenger, John Thune, said he was deeply moved, and he was undoubtedly grateful because he also received the influential endorsement of the tribal president, who has a lot of Republican friends. 
 Indians are a long ignored bloc of voters representing only 1.5 percent of the population. They have begun to show their power in the last few years, helping to defeat a senator in Washington State in 2000, helping to deliver victory to another here in South Dakota here in 2002 and being heavily courted by the presidential candidates in swing states like Arizona and New Mexico. 
 In the last few years, political races from Congress to county sheriff have begun to hinge on the Indian vote, particularly in places like South Dakota, where the Indian population is 8 percent. Republicans and Democrats alike, including the presidential candidates, are courting Indians as never before. Mr. Daschle, the Senate minority leader, has campaign offices on all nine of South Dakota's reservations. 
 Long the population with the lowest voter turnout, Indians have begun to register in droves, and turnout among them has skyrocketed. Some tribes, including the Navajo Nation, the country's largest, with 300,000 members in Arizona, New Mexico and Utah, have moved the dates of their tribal government elections to coincide with those for United States government officials. 
 Often thought to be solidly in the domain of the Democrats -- when they voted -- Indians have branched out, giving their votes and their money to both parties. The president of the Rosebud Sioux tribe, Charles Colombe, and a fast-rising number of Indians here and across the nation, have contributed to the Republican Party. 
 Campaign contributions to both parties have risen sharply, especially from tribes in California, Connecticut and Michigan, which have begun to funnel their hefty gambling revenues into politics, contributing almost $5 million so far this year to federal campaigns. The tribes, as sovereign nations, are subject to some, but not all, of the campaign spending limits and laws on financial contributions.
 Here on the Rosebud reservation, in one of the poorest counties in the nation, where the unemployment rate hovers around 75 percent, there is little money to give, and influence has come in the way of votes. In 2002, Senator Tim Johnson was re-elected by a hair in an 11th-hour victory largely attributed to late returns from Democrats on the state's reservations.
 Still, Republicans are gaining ground. Mr. Colombe, a registered independent, voted for George Bush in 2000 and said he gave his own money to Republican candidates.
 ''Many, many Indian people find themselves in the position that I'm in, with the need to be independent,'' Mr. Colombe said in an interview at tribal headquarters here. ''I'm weighing who can do most for Indian Country.''
 Indians sent about 80 delegates to the Democratic National Convention this year and about 35 to the Republican convention, a substantial increase over previous years, according to the National Congress of American Indians, which represents the 562 tribes that operate as sovereign governments. 
 ''It's like somebody figured out we're here,'' said OJ Semans, a Sioux who lives on the Rosebud reservation and is a field director for Four Directions, a nonprofit group focused on Indian voter registration and rights. ''We have been able to go to Washington, D.C., and where before if we went, an aide or legislative assistant would come out, now it's the senator, it's the congressman.''
 In return for their votes and their campaign contributions, the tribes have gotten political promises, and sometimes results, on the issues at the top of their agenda: improving transportation, health care and education on the reservations and, for the tribes that run casinos, particularly in California, a casino-friendly environment. 
 Tribes involved in casinos have contributed $4.9 million so far this year to federal political campaigns, 65 percent to Democrats and 35 percent to Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign spending. While only a small percentage of tribes have enough money to make the donations, and they still represent a small part of overall donations, the total is a sharp increase from 10 years ago, when the tribal casinos were just beginning to emerge, and the tribes gave $663,000, according to the center. 
 In South Dakota, which has one of the largest Indian populations in the United States, the election in 2002 seems to have been a watershed. 
 ''2002 demonstrated that the Native vote is a powerful vote. It made the difference,'' Mr. Daschle said in a telephone interview from Washington. ''The Native vote is now being recognized as a very important voting bloc, and that's empowered the Native American community.''
 Senator Johnson said: ''When I first came into politics, it was rare for a tribal chairman to want to be seen on the stage with a white politician. They viewed these as white man's elections.''
 He added that the role of Indian voters in his victory had ''changed the political dynamics in South Dakota forever.''
 ''They are a force to be reckoned with,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 This year's presidential candidates have reached out in unprecedented fashion to Indians in New Mexico and Arizona, tribal leaders there say. 
 Both campaigns have been running Indian-language advertisements in those states, and President Bush met privately with the Navajo Nation vice president, Frank Dayish Jr., before a campaign stop in New Mexico last month.
 Senator John Kerry appeared last month at the powwow of the Zuni and Navajo in Gallup, N.M., where eagle feathers were waved over his head in a ritual that is said to chase away evil spirits. 
 ''It was a real experience,'' said the Navajo Nation president, Joe Shirley Jr., who has endorsed Mr. Kerry. ''I really appreciated the fact that he was willing to come into Native country and be part of our sacred ceremony.''
 Mr. Shirley, the leader of 300,000 Indians who live in New Mexico, Arizona and Utah, has championed a widespread voter registration drive, and he said he believed this was the first time a presidential nominee had campaigned on Indian land. 
 This year, observers say several House and Senate races could be swayed by the Indian vote. In Alaska, Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican who is the daughter of Gov. Frank H. Murkowski, is in a tight race with Tony Knowles, a former governor. The state's population is 16 percent Alaska Native, and like Indian voters in other states, Alaska Natives are involved in an unprecedented voter registration drive this year. 
 As a group, Alaska Native leaders have not yet firmly endorsed either candidate, although some observers say they expect much of the vote to go to Mr. Knowles, a Democrat. Alaska, though, is a heavily Republican state. 
 Among wealthy tribes in the rest of the country, there is growing support for Republicans and several gambling tribes, including the Saginaw Chippewa in Michigan, have begun to donate relatively large sums to the Republicans. 
 Joseph Sowmick, public relations director for the Michigan tribe, speaking for himself and not the tribe, said, ''The Republican platform of respecting tribal sovereignty and the idea of less government is very attractive to the Saginaw Chippewa.'' The tribe, which has about 3,000 members, has contributed $239,000 to federal political campaigns so far in 2004, 62 percent to Republicans. 
 Among gambling tribes, the Michigan tribe ranked third in contributions, after the Morongo Band of Mission Indians in Southern California and the Mashantucket Pequot in Connecticut, each of which gave to Republicans and Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
 While acknowledging that in South Dakota, Indian voters are most likely to cast most of their ballots for Democrats, John Thune, Mr. Daschle's opponent here said he was happily aware of the recent shift toward supporting Republicans. 
 ''They are more receptive to the other side of the story,'' Mr. Thune said. ''I think that that comes from a lot of empty promises over the years from Democrats.''
 Tensions are rising between Native Americans who say that many Republicans have a lot to offer Indians and that the Democrats have taken a paternalistic approach to Indians and others who say the Republicans are seeking them out only now because gambling tribes have money and other tribes have potential votes that could decide close races.
 ''Unfortunately, the tribes -- because they are political neophytes -- are being taken in by this whole thing,'' said Russ Lehman, managing director of the First Americans Education Project in Olympia, Wash., whose organization was heavily involved in registering American voters who were credited with helping defeat Senator Slade Gorton of Washington in 2002. ''They are being invited to dinner, but they're not really one of the guests.''
 But Mr. Colombe, the president here on Rosebud, who said he was involved in unsuccessful voter registration drives in the past, played down the conflict and said the crucial development was that Indians are voting. 
 ''We began to understand that this system will go on without you, unless you get involved,'' Mr. Colombe said. ''Ideas take a long time to catch on. This one, in my opinion, took a whole generation for our people.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Booths like this one in Chinle, Ariz., on the Navajo reservation, reflect the growing influence of Indian voters. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Donna Semans, who works for Senator Tom Daschle's re-election campaign, urges a resident of a South Dakota reservation to register.
 Charles Colombe, a Sioux tribal president in South Dakota. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A24)Chart: ''A CLOSER LOOK -- Gambling Tribes Turn Political''As some American Indian tribes have amassed fortunes from their casinos, their political contributions to both parties have increased.ContributionsElection cycle: 1996Total contributions (millions): $2.0DonationsIndian gambling as a percentage of gambling contributions: 28%To Democrats: 85%Republicans: 15%ContributionsElection cycle: 1998Total contributions (millions): 1.6DonationsIndian gambling as a percentage of gambling contributions: 24To Democrats: 60Republicans: 40ContributionsElection cycle: 2000Total contributions (millions): 4.4DonationsIndian gambling as a percentage of gambling contributions: 35To Democrats: 79Republicans: 21ContributionsElection cycle: 2002Total contributions (millions): 6.8DonationsIndian gambling as a percentage of gambling contributions: 45To Democrats: 67Republicans: 33ContributionsElection cycle: 2004*Total contributions (millions): 4.9DonationsIndian gambling as a percentage of gambling contributions: 65To Democrats: 65Republicans: 35Total contributions include individuals, PAC's and soft money.Top Recipients (2004 cycle)1. Kalyn Cherie Free (D-Okla.): $145,6002. Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-Colo.): 110,9503. Senator Tom Daschle (D-S.D.): 86,9004. Representative Patrick J. Kennedy (D-R.I.): $85,7505. Representative Brad Carson (D-Okla.): 84,25014. President Bush: 36,00027. Senator John Kerry: 17,000*The 2004 election cycle began Jan. 1, 2003. Figures are through Aug. 2.(Source by Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GAMING (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Indians, American; Finances; Elections; Registration of Voters; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%) Senate (US); House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN THUNE (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TIM JOHNSON (57%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (55%) Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Arizona ; New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



492 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Court A 25-Million-Vote Prize

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
John Kerry woos them, but perhaps not enough. George W. Bush does too, and even Laura Bush. 
 Even so, small-business owners rarely make headlines as a political target group even though they are as many as 25 million strong and a major generator of jobs.
 But they sure have gotten the attention of the rival candidates for the White House. The Republican presidential campaign has zeroed in on small-business owners, with Mr. Bush thumping for tax relief, lower health care costs and litigation reform when he appears at small manufacturing plants or in similar settings. 
 The first lady has campaigned in Michigan and Minnesota and other swing states, making an appeal to women business owners.
 While Republicans traditionally are known as the party of big business, the Bush administration has made small business a priority, starting four years ago when Mr. Bush, a former Texas governor, borrowed a page from the winning 1992 Clinton campaign that courted small-business owners.
 ''If you are going to talk about business,'' said Todd McCracken, president of the National Small Business Association, a trade group, ''it's more appealing to talk about small business, the backbone of the country, than big corporations.''
 Owners of small businesses typically have voted overwhelmingly for the Republican candidate, viewing Republicans as more likely to give them tax breaks and less likely to impose burdensome new regulations -- exactly the formula that Mr. Bush is proposing, according to a campaign spokesman, Reed Dickens, who said the president ''is for removing obstacles to growth.''
 This year, small-business owners are still likely to favor Mr. Bush by a big margin over Mr. Kerry -- even though Mr. Kerry is a former small businessman who opened a muffin and cookie shop in Boston in 1979 and once served as chairman and ranking minority member of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. 
 But the Democratic challenger is hoping to make some inroads on three issues: health care costs, access to capital and tax relief.
 Another trend also works in his favor: the increasing number of women entrepreneurs, who seem more disposed to Mr. Kerry than to Mr. Bush. The National Association of Women Business Owners released a survey Sept. 22 showing that 55.9 percent of its members queried in August supported Mr. Kerry versus 40.1 percent for Mr. Bush, and cited health care insurance as their single most pressing concern.
 Mr. Kerry has begun to hammer on the high costs of health insurance, which resonates with many small-business owners who face the challenge of coping with premiums that have been rising recently between 15 percent and 25 percent yearly, forcing some to trim or even drop employee coverage. 
 A recent scorecard issued by House Democrats found that higher costs for health insurance, pensions and energy were pounding small businesses.
 The issue is a crucial one on both sides of the political fence, according to a survey last July by the National Small Business Association, which found that of 14,000 members who responded, more than one-third said that health care was an important issue affecting their vote. Only taxes, the wars on terrorism and in Iraq and the overall economy were ranked as more urgent concerns. In the survey, 64 percent of respondents supported Mr. Bush, compared with 32 percent for Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Kerry, who has assembled a network of small-business owners to support him in two dozen battleground states and who often appears with small-business owners at campaign events, is proposing allowing small businesses to participate in Congress's health plan to save about 15 percent on health care costs. 
 He also supports refundable tax credits for up to 50 percent of the cost of premiums paid by small business owners for their employees. These measures, his campaign said, would make health care two-thirds cheaper for small businesses than it is today.
 Mr. Bush is backing association health plans, or A.H.P.'s, which would allow small-business owners to pool their resources to bargain for cheaper health care, much as bigger companies with larger numbers of employees do now. 
 This has won the support of Earl Wayne Trotter III, who is known as Skip, vice president for operations of Trotter Machine Inc., a family-owned business in Rockford, Ill., which employs 66 people making hydraulic valve spools used in forklifts, backhoes and other construction equipment.
 ''Our health care costs have gone up an average of 22 percent for each employee for the past three years,'' said Mr. Trotter, 37, who says he plans to vote for Mr. Bush. ''There's no reason why five shops the size of Trotter Machine can't pool together to find more economic health funding.''
 Bills setting up A.H.P.'s have been approved in the House of Representatives, where the idea has been backed by Democrats as well, but legislation has stalled in the Senate because of stiff opposition from big insurance companies.
 Jason Furman, who advises Mr. Kerry on economic issues, said the senator opposes A.H.P.'s because ''a Congressional Budget Office study showed that four out of five plans would see their costs go up under Bush's proposal.''
 Along with ameliorating health care costs, Mr. Dickens, the Bush-Cheney campaign spokesman, listed cutting taxes, reducing government regulation and red tape and decreasing junk lawsuits as ways the administration has helped, or plans to help, small-business owners. Mr. Kerry says he wants lawsuits to be screened to weed out frivolous litigation.
 Tax relief is another significant divide between the candidates. Mr. Bush would extend previous tax cuts, which he claims have given small-business owners about $75 billion in relief and has reduced rates for more than 90 percent of small businesses that pay taxes at the individual income rate. 
 Democrats challenge the administration's figures, citing Treasury Department data that indicate only 180,000 small-business owners qualify for the bracket that can take advantage of the lower tax rates. 
 The Kerry campaign said the numbers were even smaller, an important point because Mr. Kerry wants to roll back tax cuts for the $200,000-and-over earners -- a proposal that the Republican campaign claims would hurt 900,000 small businesses.
 ''The tax relief issues are huge,'' said Desma Reid-Coleman, chief executive of Quality Professional Services in Detroit, an umbrella for her six companies including the Detroit airport luggage cart concession. ''You have to make a living. But the tax rollbacks hit only the highest bracket businesses, and don't help the smaller companies.''
 Representative Nydia Velazquez of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, argues that's because more than ''half of small businesses received less than $500 under the president's tax cut.'' 
 Mr. Kerry argues that the Bush administration has ''consistently shortchanged funding for loan programs'' to help small businesses get off the ground, and has not shored up venture capital funding to keep them going. 
 He wants to provide a tax credit for any net new jobs created by a small business with up to 99 employees, eliminate capital gains taxes for investments in small-business start-ups and lower the corporate tax rate by 5 percent, which Mr. Furman said ''would benefit tens of millions of such businesses.''
 Democrats complain that the Bush administration has cut budgets for government programs that aid small businesses, including calling for an end to the federal microloan program that provided $12.5 million last year in start-up loans for businesses owned by women, and has not given women entrepreneurs a big enough slice of the federal procurement pie.
 Mr. Furman said a Kerry administration would set a goal of getting 30 percent of such contracts for small businesses, compared with the current 14 percent level. 
 Still, business owners like Bobra Bush, owner of the Telcare Corporation of Boca Raton, Fla., which conducts customer satisfaction surveys, are undecided about which way they will vote come November.
 ''Health care costs are insane every year, but the tax rollbacks are where Bush is appealing,'' she said. ''Yet, he's also cut back the Small Business Administration, and that's hurt us. You have to think about the bottom line, but you have a social conscience too. It's a tough choice.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the presidential candidates' courting of small-business owners misstated John Kerry's role on the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. He is the current ranking minority member, not a former one.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Skip Trotter, a machine manufacturer in Rockford, Ill., said he liked a Republican health insurance proposal. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TRENDS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); RETAIL BAKERIES (62%) Small Business; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Taxation; Suits and Litigation; Public Opinion; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: National Assn of Women Business Owners

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



493 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: California's Stem Cell Challenge

 BODY:
Frustration with the Bush administration's shortsighted restrictions on embryonic stem cell research has found its most extreme expression in an ambitious ballot measure that will be presented to California voters in the November elections. The measure calls for the state to borrow some $3 billion in the next decade or so to finance stem cell research in the state's medical schools and other nonprofit research institutions, with priority given to the kind of research that is now barred from receiving federal support under President Bush's policy. The amount of money is staggering, an order of magnitude as great as what is now spent by the federal government on the limited embryonic stem cell research the president is willing to support. 
 In effect, the proposal would have California pick up the leadership role that President Bush has abdicated. Californians will decide if this is the way they wish to spend their public money. But there is little doubt that the rest of us stand to benefit greatly if this promising field of research gets a huge boost.
 The ballot measure, known as Proposition 71, would expand embryonic stem cell research far beyond the 20 or so cell lines that can be studied with federal support under the Bush policy, thus allowing the fuller range of research that most scientists deem important. Senator John Kerry has promised that, if elected, he would lift the Bush restrictions to make many more cell lines available, and would ramp up spending to at least $100 million a year, four times the current level. He would also allow federal support for therapeutic cloning to derive treatments tailored to a specific individual, but not for reproductive cloning to make a baby. The California proposition would also support therapeutic but not reproductive cloning, and it would pour in much more money than Mr. Kerry has proposed. 
 Supporters of Proposition 71 cite the great potential of stem cell research to provide treatments for a wide range of ailments, including diabetes, Parkinson's and heart disease, among some 70 or more ailments. The supporters gloss over the uncertainties over whether embryonic stem cell research will pay off in a big way, and they play down the likelihood that any clinical applications are years away. The supporters also cite studies purporting to show that the California measure would more than pay for itself by generating taxes, creating jobs, bolstering the state's biotech industry and cutting future health care costs by providing new treatments. 
 Opponents of the measure cite moral objections to destroying early stage embryos while extracting their stem cells. They also warn that California is in no shape to add to its debt burden to support a single scientific field. With interest costs, the $3 billion bond issues could cost $6 billion over 30 years.
 California, with an economy that dwarfs those of most nations, could presumably bear principal and interest payments that might average $200 million a year. The question is whether Californians want to pay for medical advances that will benefit not just themselves but everyone else. Our hope is that they will think expansively and help keep the United States competitive in this potentially crucial field of research. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Thursday about California's stem cell initiative was incomplete in identifying where the research funds could be spent. For-profit companies would be eligible for funding, not just nonprofit research institutions.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); BIOETHICS (89%); HUMAN CLONING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CLONING (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (86%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); HEART DISEASE (61%); DIABETES (61%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); BOND ISSUES (60%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (57%) Medicine and Health; Editorials; Referendums; Stem Cells; Fetal Tissue; Research; Government Bonds; Finances

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



494 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Maintains Domestic Focus, Turning to Social Security and Medicare

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry extended his assault on President Bush's credibility from the war to the home front on Wednesday, asserting that on Social Security and Medicare, as on Iraq, Mr. Bush had failed to level with the American people.
 Visiting a city that has a high proportion of retirees and a large number of Democrats still furious over the disputed recount in Florida in 2000, Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush was living in a fantasyland on foreign and domestic policy and pressed his case that only new leadership could put the nation on the right course. 
 ''When your horse is drowning in midstream, it's a good time to shift,'' Mr. Kerry said at a town-hall-style meeting here, his voice reduced at times to a croak by a cold that led aides to curtail his schedule for Thursday, a week before the first presidential debate.
 Midway through a week that Mr. Kerry's aides say has shown him finding his stride, the Democratic ticket kept up its efforts to leave the defensive over Iraq and national security, characterizing Iraq as a quagmire and portraying Mr. Bush as stubbornly pursuing an ideological agenda.
 Expanding on his theme that the nation is less secure because of the way Mr. Bush has handled Iraq, Mr. Kerry said Osama bin Laden had become ''Osama bin Forgotten.'' 
 His running mate, Senator John Edwards, issued a statement criticizing Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney for what he called a record of failure and inaction in the face of terrorist threats.
 ''It is the height of absurdity for Dick Cheney, a chief architect of the Iraq quagmire, to talk about the leadership needed to fix the mess in Iraq that he created,'' Mr. Edwards said. 
 He was responding to remarks by Mr. Cheney earlier that Mr. Kerry gave every indication of being someone who ''lacks the resolve, the determination and the conviction to prevail'' in battling the terrorism threat.
 Mr. Kerry also turned to perhaps the most venerable and reliable of Democratic strategies, casting himself as the protector of Social Security and Medicare, the twin pillars of the social welfare system.
 He attacked Mr. Bush's support for creating personal investment accounts within Social Security, criticized the president's record on Medicare and promised different approaches for the long-term financial difficulties in the two programs.
 ''On everything from Social Security to Medicare and prescription drugs to retirement, I believe George Bush has made the wrong choices for America,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''What's happening is he's driving seniors right out of the middle class, squeezing them, pushing them into places they don't deserve to be and don't want to be.''
 The Bush campaign responded that Mr. Kerry had no plan at all to address the Social Security problems, leaving it vulnerable to tax increases and benefit cuts. 
 Mr. Bush dispatched high-profile surrogates own to Florida to counter Mr. Kerry, with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York suggesting to an audience in Orlando that Mr. Kerry would ''retreat on the war on terror.''
 Since the race in 2000, Mr. Bush has supported creating voluntary investment accounts in Social Security, with workers allowed to place part of their payroll taxes in stocks, bonds, money market funds or other assets. Allowing workers to divert some payroll taxes to private accounts would leave Social Security short of cash to pay benefits to current retirees. Mr. Bush has never explained how he would make up that shortfall, which by some estimates could be as much as $2 trillion over coming decades. 
 Moreover, creating the accounts would not by itself reduce the strains as the baby boomers reach retirement age and people live longer.
 Mr. Bush's plan amounts to privatizing the system, Mr. Kerry said, ''breaking the generational compact that's existed since Franklin Roosevelt.'' 
 Mr. Bush's approach, the Democrat said, would also place individuals on the hook for what a new study said could be $940 billion in management fees to Wall Street firms over 75 years. The study was conducted by Austan D. Goolsbee, a professor at the University of Chicago business school who said he had consulted informally on economic issues with the Kerry campaign.
 Mr. Kerry has offered only a vague idea of how he would address the problems of Social Security, saying he would start with restoring budget discipline, a step that could help if it resulted in a return to budget surpluses and allowed the government to reduce its debt.
 Mr. Kerry has instead stressed what he would not do. 
 ''I pledge to you, '' he said, ''I will not cut benefits, I will not raise the retirement age, and I will not privatize Social Security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AGING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MAYORS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare; Aged; Privatization

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); DICK CHENEY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (69%) George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry; Rudolph W (Mayor) Giuliani; John (Sen) Edwards; Osama Bin Laden; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Florida; West Palm Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



495 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Nothing to Sing About: A Lull in Fall Musicals

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Musically speaking, the 2004-5 Broadway season is seriously off balance.
 How so? Well, between now and New Year's Day there is exactly one new musical scheduled to open: ''Brooklyn: The Musical,'' described as a ''sidewalk fairy tale'' and featuring a fledgling writing team (Mark Schoenfeld and Barri McPherson) making their Broadway debut. It begins previews tonight at the Plymouth Theater. 
 Next spring, however, is an entirely different story, with at least eight new musicals confirmed (with several others possible), including such big-name productions as ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' adapted from the hit 1988 movie; ''Monty Python's Spamalot,'' directed by Mike Nichols and based on that British comedy troupe's routines; and ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,'' the big-budget London import that features a flying car. 
 ''Brooklyn,'' a relatively small musical (the budget is just shy of $7 million), could certainly score with critics and audiences, but it does not fit the profile of the big-budget, high-profile show that many ticket sellers have depended on in recent years to kick-start the Broadway season. 
 ''It makes life difficult,'' said Ronald S. Lee, an executive with Group Sales Box Office, a ticket agency. ''There are organizations and groups that might want more than one new musical this fall, but this schedule kind of limits them to a choice of one or none.''
 Plenty of other productions are opening this fall, among them four one-man shows (including ones by Billy Crystal and Dame Edna), a couple of big plays and musical revivals (like ''Reckless'' and ''La Cage aux Folles'') and two new plays by major authors (August Wilson's ''Gem of the Ocean'' and Michael Frayn's ''Democracy'').
 But it is musicals, particularly splashy new ones in nice big theaters, that are the engines driving Broadway's economy, drawing nearly $9 out of every $10 spent on tickets last season.
 Last fall, for example, there were the flying witches of ''Wicked,'' the Hugh Jackman factor in ''The Boy From Oz,'' even -- for masochists -- the camp agony of the Boy George musical ''Taboo.'' The year before that there was ''Hairspray,'' the hit adaptation of the John Waters film; ''Movin' Out,'' based on the songs of Billy Joel; and director Baz Luhrmann's take on ''La Boheme.'' 
 And while two new musicals, ''The Frogs,'' at Lincoln Center Theater, and ''Dracula: The Musical,'' at the Belasco, did open before Labor Day, neither of those productions -- or their unhappy reviews -- have done much to generate audience excitement about the new season.
 For their part, producers and other theater professionals say, the feast-or-famine schedule is merely a quirk; shows, after all, usually arrive on Broadway when they are deemed ready, the money is there, and a theater is available. And the rule of thumb tends to be, the more that are ready the better. 
 ''I think, by and large, shows are produced when they're ready to be produced,'' said Jed Bernstein, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, the industry's major trade group. ''And in general when Broadway is very busy, that tends to be good because it tends to focus people on Broadway.''
 Still, there are some inherent advantages for ''Brooklyn,'' namely that for a little while, at least, it is the only game in town. 
 ''I really want to thank all the other producers for moving their schedules to the spring,'' said Benjamin Mordecai, a lead producer of ''Brooklyn,'' which follows the story of a young woman looking for her father in the self-same borough. ''It's an act of generosity that goes beyond the pale.''
 Mr. Mordecai was being funny, but it's a fact that his show will have no new musical competition until January, when two others are scheduled to open: ''Little Women,'' a musical version of the Louisa May Alcott weeper; and ''Good Vibrations,'' a musical built around about 30 Beach Boys songs.
 Conversely, the spring musicals -- six of which are scheduled to open in March and April -- will probably have a tougher time standing out from the pack and avoiding audience fatigue, Mr. Bernstein concedes. ''Yes, just numerically the more boats that are trying to get into one harbor, the harder it is for any one to have smooth sailing,'' he said, rather nautically. 
 David Brown, a producer of ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' now trying out in San Diego, said he was not worried. 
 ''I don't know who else is out there, but I don't know anything else that's in our category,'' Mr. Brown said, speaking of the musical-comedy genre. ''And there's nothing wrong with having two hits on Broadway. Or three or four.''
 Nancy Coyne, a principal owner of Serino Coyne, the major Broadway advertising agency, agrees that a packed spring sounds promising. 
 ''I'm one of those disgusting optimists that thinks you can turn any situation to your advantage,'' Ms. Coyne said. ''I think it's better if Broadway is perceived to be what's in the news every day.'' (And it should be noted, spending ad dollars as well.) 
 While ''Brooklyn'' may have the rest of 2004 to itself, even Mr. Mordecai admits that the show will need help to make its creators stars. Ms. McPherson and Mr. Schoenfeld, who wrote the book, music and lyrics, not only are making their Broadway debut, but have never written a musical before. (Ms. McPherson is a cabaret singer; Mr. Schoenfeld is identified in the show's press materials as a former homeless street performer.) 
 The show lacks not only well-known creators, but also flashy pyrotechnics (see ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang'') and big stars (see John Lithgow in ''Scoundrels'' or David Hyde Pierce and Tim Curry in ''Spamalot''). 
 ''At best, I thought this would be a show that starts slow and builds gradually,'' Mr. Mordecai said. ''That there's some time to allow it to get some attention is welcome.''
 For his sake, Mr. Lee, the ticket seller, also hopes the show is a hit. 
 ''Broadway tends to spread the wealth around a season,'' he said. ''But I think the wealth would be better spread if there were a couple of shows in the fall and a couple in the spring.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (78%); FILM (76%); WRITERS (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); TICKET AGENCIES (71%); THEATER (58%) Theater; Theater

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%) Mark Schoenfeld; Barri Mcpherson; Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004



496 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Florida's tourism officials plan to step up spending to counter those images of storm-battered beaches.

BYLINE: By Joseph B. Treaster

 BODY:
SEPTEMBER is usually a slow month for tourism in Florida. But this year, after three deadly hurricanes have hammered the state, and with another threatening, tourists are really scarce.
 ''It's definitely quiet,'' said Amy Culver-Aversa, the owner of Mangoes Restaurant and Catering on Duval Street in Key West. ''The trolleys and trams have very few people on them. There are lots of empty tables. It's never like this.''
 Ms. Culver-Aversa and others in Florida's $51 billion tourist business -- the state's leading industry -- had been expecting a banner year as the state recovered from a sharp decline in travel in the seasons after the terrorist attacks in 2001. 
 Now the industry's fortunes are in doubt again after five weeks of frightening headlines and pictures of palm-tree-flailing winds that made the state look like a set for a horror movie. The hurricanes left nearly 70 dead and up to $50 billion in damage in Florida. And the latest storm, Hurricane Jeanne, is offshore.
 To counter the visual pounding the state has taken, tourism officials are planning to nearly double annual spending on promotion, to about $130 million. They plan to begin full-page newspaper ads today showing a tranquil palm tree silhouetted at sunset with the message: ''We're still here, naturally.'' 
 The Florida Keys and some other tourist centers have started their own advertising campaigns, and some are using Florida radio and newspapers to suggest that residents take a break from the travails of the storms and kick back for a long weekend in a local hotel. Tourist executives are also fanning out across the United States to speak personally with travel agents, tour operators and corporate travel managers. 
 High on the state's image rehabilitation program is a lesson in geography: Florida is a big state with hundreds of miles of beaches, and trauma in Pensacola has little bearing on conditions in Miami Beach.
 Almost every part of the state felt some impact from the storms, and places like Pensacola and the southwest coast around Punta Gorda and Port Charlotte were particularly hard hit. But the Florida Keys, Miami Beach and Fort Lauderdale were nearly untouched, and Walt Disney World and other theme parks around Orlando also got through the storms with little or no damage.
 ''There is a perception that Florida is boarded up, and that is not correct,'' said Bill Peeper, the president of the Orlando/Orange County Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
 Beginning at 5:05 a.m. on Wednesday, Mr. Peeper, sitting in a high director's chair in front of Cinderella's Castle in the Magic Kingdom, worked through a series of interviews with 19 television stations around the country, assuring viewers that only 2 of the area's 453 hotels suffered serious damage in the storms, that all the theme parks were open and that attendance was holding steady.
 Miami and some other places are offering special discounts on hotels and bonuses like buy one restaurant meal, get one free; free breakfasts for the whole family; or an extra hotel night at no charge.
 On the southwest coast, where the first of the storms, Hurricane Charley, came ashore on Aug. 13, the barrier islands of Sanibel, Captiva and Estero, better known as Fort Myers Beach, are still recovering. But Nancy Hamilton, a spokeswoman for the Lee County Visitor and Convention Bureau in Fort Myers, said some hotels were receiving guests. 
 ''We're asking people to call the properties ahead of time to find out what the situation is,'' she said, ''because it so different for each one. We're encouraging people, if they don't mind cleanup operations going on around them, to come on down now. But if that's something you don't want going on, postpone your vacation and come later in the year.''
 Tourism officials are still tallying their immediate losses, but the number easily comes to several hundred million dollars in a state where the average monthly revenue from visitors runs more than $4 billion. The disruptions began from shortly before Hurricane Charley hit the southwest coast in mid-August through the middle of September, as Hurricane Ivan veered away from Key West at the last minute then lumbered up the Gulf of Mexico to thrash the Florida Panhandle, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. 
 So far, tourist officials, say few cancellations have been received for the coming winter season. But one of their biggest worries is how the state is going to fare next summer, particularly because some meteorologists have been saying that this year's onslaught of hurricanes suggests a long-term shift in weather patterns that could mean several hurricanes to Florida every summer. 
 In the last few years the state has been developing a big presence in conventions and business meetings during the warmer months, its historic low season, partly by offering low prices. It has also been attracting more tourists from Britain and elsewhere in Europe who seem to like the summer months and often stay for up to two weeks, rather than the more typical week or less that Americans stay.
 Nicki E. Grossman, the president of the Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau, said she had been paying attention to meeting planners all over the country who are making decisions now about July-September gatherings for several years ahead. ''They have been some concerns that this is a weather trend that isn't going to be limited to just 2004.''
 Ms. Grossman and her colleagues are doing their best to reassure group planners that it has been 40 years since three hurricanes hit Florida in a single season and that, whatever happens next summer, the state will make visitors comfortable. 
 Assuming Gov. Jeb Bush and the Legislature endorse the new promotion plan, which seems likely, stepped-up advertising with television, radio, magazines, newspapers and trade publications will begin in December and run through June. The plan calls for $30 million in additional money from the state and at least another $30 million from the tourism industry in money and exchanges of things like tickets for attractions and hotel rooms for advertising and promotion. 
 ''We are being very aggressive in trying to meet the negative publicity,'' said Dale A. Brill, the senior vice president for marketing for Visit Florida, the state's main tourist promotion organization. 
 ''We've been hit seriously enough that if we don't do something about it, it could spin out of control,'' he said. ''People are still going to be traveling. My job is to make sure they don't go somewhere else; that they still come to Florida.''
 After the 9/11 attacks, Governor Bush found an extra $20 million for tourism promotion, and the industry added $27 million more in money and exchanges. Those efforts reinvigorated a lagging business and are being widely referred to as a model for dealing with the hurricane slump. 
 Tourism provides jobs for nearly 900,000 people in Florida, and the money from tourism ripples through the economy to create tens of thousands of other jobs. ''If that cash cow isn't in the field, the rest of the economic recovery of Florida is going to be held back,'' said Ms. Grossman of the Fort Lauderdale convention bureau. 
 For at least some Americans, Florida right now seems like just the right destination. Clifford A. Rieders, a lawyer in Williamsport, Pa., said he was considering visiting friends around Sarasota and Bradenton on the west coast partly because he thinks they could use cheering up.
 ''They're all kind of depressed,'' Mr. Rieders said. ''Even if they weren't in the zone that was really hit, they're feeling down. I'd like to give them some moral support.''
 But that's not all, he said. ''You can probably get on the golf courses easily, and the weather is gorgeous this time of year.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiters at the nearly empty Mangoes Restaurant in Key West. The storms mostly bypassed the town but the tourists are doing so, too.
 A print ad seeks to assure visitors that Florida is ready and waiting. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (92%); HURRICANES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BEACHES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Travel and Vacations; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (51%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida; Florida Keys

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



497 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Powell Holds Brief Meeting With Minister From Libya

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, churning through a round of meetings with envoys in New York City for the United Nations General Assembly, added another first to his tenure yesterday by meeting with Libya's foreign minister.
 It was the first time an American secretary of state had met with a Libyan envoy since at least the 1970's. Mr. Powell's brief session with Foreign Minister Abdurahman Shalgam at the Waldorf-Astoria followed President Bush's action on Monday revoking the trade embargo on Libya and taking other steps in return for Tripoli's dismantling of its unconventional weapons programs. 
 After the meeting, a senior State Department official said that Mr. Powell discussed Libya's ''positive'' moves but also what it still needs to do to further improve relations with Washington. The United States, the official said, continues to have ''serious concerns'' that Libya may have plotted to assassinate Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and that human rights in Libya continue to be abused. 
 ''We are committed to working step by step through these issues,'' the official said. 
 Last year, Libya agreed to compensate families of the 270 victims who died in the crash in Lockerbie, Scotland, of Pan Am Flight 107, which was blown up by Libyan terrorists, and to dismantle its chemical, biological and nuclear arms programs as demanded by the United States and other countries. 
 As Libya has followed through on its pledges, the United States has gradually lifted sanctions and stepped up contacts with the Libyan leadership. However, because Libya remains on the State Department's list of countries that sponsor terrorism, it is barred from receiving imports with military and security applications, and Libya and the United States still do not have full diplomatic relations.
 Over the last several months of negotiations, William J. Burns, assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and Northern African affairs, has met with Libya's leader, Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi, and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain flew to Libya for a meeting with a leader once known as one of the most notorious in the Arab world.
 But the meeting yesterday in New York between Mr. Powell and Mr. Shalgam was so unusual that State Department officials had trouble determining exactly when the last one at this level might have occurred.
 In other developments, Mr. Powell met with Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. A senior State Department official said Mr. Powell raised with him American concerns about recent steps by President Vladimir V. Putin on the political process in Russia, but he gave no details. 
 Secretary Powell also met with the foreign ministers of Egypt, Greece, South Korea, Kuwait, Bangladesh and Zambia and spoke to foreign journalists, saying that he was encouraged by reports that Syria has redeployed troops from southern Lebanon. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a meeting between Colin L. Powell and Foreign Minister Abdurahman Shalgam of Libya, the first between an American secretary of state and a Libyan envoy since at least the 1970's, misidentified the plane blown up over Scotland by Libyan terrorists in 1988. It was Pan Am Flight 103, not 107.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ASSASSINATION (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%); JOURNALISM (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (65%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); TONY BLAIR (56%) Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell; George W (Pres) Bush; Abdurahman (Min) Shalgam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Libya; Libya

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



498 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Up in August; Economic Indicators Fall

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A closely watched gauge of future business activity fell in August for a third consecutive month, evidence that companies and consumers continue to face an uncertain economic climate. In a separate report, more Americans than expected filed new claims for unemployment benefits last week, after a third hurricane hit Florida.
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its Composite Index of Leading Economic Indicators fell 0.3 percent in August to 115.7, after a decline of 0.3 percent in July. 
 The August reading was the third month of decline in the index, after more than a year in which it gained steady ground. The drop last month was larger than the 0.2 percent decrease forecast by analysts.
 Economists said the August report confirmed a slackening in the recovery dating back to the late spring. Three consecutive months of a decline in the index is generally considered to mean that the economy is weakening.
 ''Consumers worry about their wages and salaries, which could limit spending. Businesses worry about their ability to raise prices and to cover rising costs,'' said Ken Goldstein, an economist for the Conference Board, a private research group based in New York.
 The index is intended to forecast the economy's health over the coming three to six months.
 Federal Reserve policy makers cited an overall steadying in the economy when they raised a key interest rate earlier this week, the third such increase this year. The Fed's campaign of gradual increases reflects its efforts to navigate through a soft patch in the business cycle and return the cost of borrowing money to historical norms.
 In its report, the Conference Board said seven of the 10 indicators that make up the index declined in August. They were interest-rate spread, building permits, the index of consumer expectations, manufacturers' new orders for nondefense capital goods, vendor performance and stock prices.
 The components that rose were manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials, real money supply and average weekly claims for initial unemployment. 
 Also yesterday, the Labor Department reported that the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment insurance rose by a seasonally adjusted 14,000, to 350,000, mostly as a result of the Florida hurricanes. That left new claims higher than the 338,000 applications that some analysts were forecasting. But the number was lower than that of the same week last year, when claims were at 387,000.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 = 100.Aug.: -0.3%July: -0.3June: -0.1Graph tracks the index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity from March 2003-Aug. 2004.(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WEATHER (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



499 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: No Decision on the Expos, but a Sense of Urgency

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Major League Baseball's relocation committee met with its executive council and Commissioner Bud Selig yesterday in Milwaukee about the future of the Montreal Expos. But everybody went home without a decision. 
 Nevertheless, an official said a decision was growing near. 
 ''It has to be pretty soon,'' the official said. 
 At the meeting, the relocation committee presented all the bids it has received. But it was highly unlikely that any site other than Washington and northern Virginia remained serious contenders for the team that Major League Baseball has owned for three years. 
 Las Vegas; Portland, Ore.; the Norfolk, Va., region; and Monterrey, Mexico, are the other areas trying to get the Expos.
 No deadline or timetable was established at the meeting. Baseball has gone beyond several previously stated target dates for an announcement and has refused to establish a new date. Early last month, Selig said he thought officials would have a decision by mid-September. Selig has said that the Expos will have a new home for next season. 
 His decision on a new home has been complicated by the objections of Peter Angelos to placing the team in Washington or northern Virginia. Angelos owns the Baltimore Orioles and maintains that putting the Expos in one of those nearby areas would harm the Orioles economically. 
 Selig has told Angelos and others that he would make no decision that would make Angelos unhappy. Angelos is a member of the executive council and attended yesterday's meeting. 
 The official said he repeated his views but did so without rancor.
 If Washington or northern Virginia is chosen, the team would play in R.F.K. Stadium in Washington until a new stadium is built. 
 But work needs to be done to prepare the stadium for baseball, so a decision would have to be made soon.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Expos have drawn few fans in their three seasons of being owned by Major League Baseball. (Photo by Paul Chiasson/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%) Baseball; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (82%) Montreal Expos

PERSON: Murray Chass; Bud Selig

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



500 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Fed Policy Makers Saw Lull In Economy as Short Term

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
As Federal Reserve policy makers voted unanimously on Aug. 10 to raise interest rates, they cited a need for ''significant cumulative policy tightening'' to restore interest rates to a level that would foster growth without inflation.
 The timing and pace of that tightening ''would depend importantly on incoming economic data,'' according to the August minutes, which were released yesterday.
 Members of the Federal Open Market Committee, who raised the overnight bank lending rate a quarter point to 1.5 percent, also said that the slowing of the economy earlier this year was tied to higher energy costs and fewer consumer purchases, which would prove to be ''short-lived,'' minutes of the meeting showed. 
 This week, the Federal Reserve again raised its overnight benchmark rate, to 1.75 percent, the third increase this year, and it maintained a pledge to raise interest rates at a ''measured'' pace.
 ''Although the pace of growth had moderated in the second quarter,'' the minutes noted, ''the committee believed that the softness would prove short-lived and that the economy was poised to resume a stronger rate of expansion going forward.'' 
 As in June, when the Fed raised interest rates for the first time in four years, central bankers remained concerned in August that interest rates could ignite higher inflation over the long term.
 ''Given the current quite low level of short-term rates, especially when judged against the recent level of inflation, members noted that significant cumulative policy tightening likely would be needed to foster conditions consistent with the committee's objectives for price stability and sustainable growth,'' the August minutes said.
 ''A relatively small tightening move at this meeting would help to limit the risk of a rise in inflation expectations and reduce the likelihood that policy might need to be adjusted more sharply in the future,'' the minutes said.
 The Fed officials began the August meeting four days after the Labor Department released its July employment report, which showed that the economy generated 32,000 payroll jobs for the month, about an eighth of the median forecast. That number was revised to 73,000 in the report for August, when the economy added 144,000 workers. In June, 96,000 jobs were created.
 Federal Reserve members attributed the weakness in June and July hiring to productivity gains and high benefit costs, notably for health care, and said they ''expected the pace of employment gains to improve in coming months.''
 The payroll data, they said, may be giving an ''incomplete picture of the expansion.'' Businesses had not reduced hiring prospects, nor had consumers signaled deterioration in employment opportunities, the minutes said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



501 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Former Top Deputy to Rowland Is Indicted in Racketeering Case

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN and STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
Describing the former Connecticut governor's office as a racketeering enterprise, a federal grand jury yesterday indicted former Gov. John G. Rowland's co-chief of staff and others in a scheme that involved the manipulation of tens of millions of dollars' worth of state contracts, grants and loans in return for gold, cash, limousine rides, trips and other valuables.
 The charges, outlined in a 54-page indictment, paint a picture of an administration that frequently put private gain ahead of public service. They also left no doubt that federal prosecutors are still investigating the former governor's office, with some possibility that charges could be filed at some point against Mr. Rowland, a three-term Republican governor.
 The investigation is ''very active and ongoing,'' John H. Durham, the deputy United States attorney in Connecticut, said in a statement. Mr. Durham has been supervising the case in concert with the Department of Justice in Washington. 
 The statement also said the ''allegations in this indictment are extremely serious as they involve alleged abuse within the highest levels of the government of the state of Connecticut.''
 Mr. Rowland resigned from office on July 1 as a state impeachment panel was about to compel his testimony. His lawyer, William F. Dow III, released a statement yesterday noting that his client's name was not listed among the recent defendants. ''Nor should it be,'' Mr. Dow said.
 The indictment opens by saying the ''supreme executive authority of the state was vested with the governor.'' It later says ''the office of the governor constituted an enterprise'' as defined under a federal racketeering law.
 M. Jodi Rell, the longtime second-in-command in Hartford who succeeded Mr. Rowland as governor this summer, said she was ''disgusted and angry'' by the new round of charges centered around the governor's office. She also took the occasion to further distance herself from the governor she had served and supported, saying, ''Let the chips fall where they may.''
 The man at the heart of the activities described in the indictment is Peter N. Ellef, a longtime insurance executive hired by Mr. Rowland in 1995 to head the state's economic development office and then appointed his co-chief of staff in the fall of 1997.
 He, in turn, brought in a former colleague, Lawrence Alibozek, as the governor's deputy chief of staff. Mr. Alibozek pleaded guilty in March 2003 to having steered state contracts in exchange for cash and gold coins that were found in his backyard, and it is largely his cooperation with prosecutors in an effort to win leniency that has implicated Mr. Ellef.
 Almost from the moment Mr. Ellef assumed his position at the governor's side, the indictment alleges, he conspired with another defendant, William A. Tomasso, to use his position to enrich both men, as well as Mr. Ellef's son, Peter Ellef Jr., a third defendant.
 Specifically, the indictment alleges that Mr. Ellef steered state contracts and financial assistance to Mr. Tomasso's family-owned construction and property management business at every opportunity, and that the Tomasso companies in return gave $1.6 million to a landscaping company owned by Mr. Ellef's son and wife.
 Two large Tomasso-owned companies, Tomasso Brothers Inc., the construction arm, and Tunxis Management Company, the property management arm, were also named as defendants, as was LF Design LLC, the landscaping company.
 All of the defendants were charged with conspiracy to commit theft or bribery of federal funds, racketeering, conspiracy to commit racketeering, mail and wire fraud, and theft of honest services.
 Additional charges of attempted extortion and conspiracy to commit extortion were levied against Mr. Ellef and Mr. Tomasso.
 Mr. Ellef and his son also face charges of conspiring to commit tax fraud because of personal expenses, such as a $316 charge at Nordstrom's that the indictment says were treated as business expenses on the landscaping company's books. 
 Mr. Ellef, his son and Mr. Tomasso were also charged with conspiring to launder money to conceal the true nature of their transactions.
 Lawyers for both Mr. Ellef and Mr. Tomasso said they would fight all charges. Lawyers for Mr. Ellef's son did not return phone calls seeking comment. ''Anybody can write an indictment, and the feds can get a grand jury to indict anybody,'' said Hugh Keefe, a New Haven lawyer who represents Mr. Ellef. ''Proving Ellef and the Tomassos guilty is a little different than having coffee with 20 grand jurors and bringing back an indictment.''
 He also complained that the government had made the indictment public before alerting him, a courtesy defense lawyers sometimes receive.
 The Hartford law firm that represents the Tomasso entities issued a statement that said: ''William A. Tomasso, Tomasso Brothers, Inc. and Tunxis Management Company have known for months that the allegations contained in the indictment returned yesterday were coming. The Tomasso parties emphatically deny those charges and they welcome a trial at which the other side of this story can finally be revealed.''
 Included on the list of tainted state contracts that went to Tomasso companies, according to the indictment, were a no-bid job to repair and eventually relocate the headquarters of the Connecticut Lottery Corporation after a multiple homicide made the premises unusable. It also lists the $57 million project to rebuild the state's juvenile training school in Middletown, Conn., which entitled the Tomasso Brothers Inc. as the construction manager, to a $3.3 million fee.
 In return for these and other state jobs, the indictment states, the Tomassos found ways to show their appreciation besides the $1.6 million in landscaping work they awarded LF Design. They funneled $202,500 in consulting payments to the landscaping company and picked up $18,760 of its rent.
 According to the indictment, they also entertained Mr. Ellef in lavish ways. He traveled with Mr. Tomasso via limousine to Boston in late December 1998 and on his own to New York in May 1999, both times with Tomasso Brothers Inc. picking up a tab close to $1885, the indictment says. In the summer of 2001, the company also paid $3,030 in limousine expenses incurred as part of Mr. Ellef's son's wedding celebration, it says.
 In July 1999, the indictment states, Mr. Tomasso provided gold coins to Mr. Ellef and Mr. Alibozek.
 The Tomassos' statement also noted that the family looked forward to reclaiming their reputation for ''integrity, quality work and generosity to the community.''
 Besides having to go to criminal court, the Tomassos may also find themselves facing a civil suit.
 Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said the state would file suit no later than next week to recover state money spent on contracts awarded through favoritism and the misuse of insider information.
 ''We will be seeking restitution for the state,'' Mr. Blumenthal said.
 He said figures named in the federal indictments returned yesterday could be sued ''and very possibly others as well.'' He would not say whether the state would sue former Governor Rowland.
 Mr. Blumenthal, a Democrat, also did not elaborate on which contracts would be looked at.
 Robert A. Mintz, a former federal prosecutor who is in private practice, said the picture looked rather bleak for Mr. Rowland. ''They're saying the office of the governor constituted a racketeering enterprise,'' he said. ''That is an astonishing claim that is unusual even in the annals of public corruption cases.''
 Michael Sklaire, a former federal prosecutor who helped convict Joseph Ganim, the former mayor of Bridgeport, on corruption charges, agreed that the indictment did not reflect well on the governor's office but that there was little to directly implicate the governor. 
 ''You're left with the conclusion that either he had no idea what the people beneath him were doing and where the gifts were coming from, or he knew,'' Mr. Sklaire said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: William A. Tomasso, above, a contractor, and Peter N. Ellef, the former co-chief of staff for former Connecticut Gov. John G. Rowland. Both were indicted. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Steve Miller/Associated Press)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); BRIBERY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); ETHICS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%) Governors (US); Ethics; Impeachment; Bribery

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%) Alison Leigh Cowan; Stacey Stowe; Peter Ellef; John G (Gov) Rowland; Lawrence Alibozek; John H Durham

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut; Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



502 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: New Island Hopes to Be Hong Kong Of Korea

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: INCHON, South Korea 

 BODY:
After Hong Kong, Singapore, and Shanghai, will Asia's new hub be Songdo?
 From the mud flats of a man-made island here, Stanley Gale, a New Jersey developer, spins a vision of a future hub city for Northeast Asia, an ambitious $20 billion, 120-million-square-foot development four times the size of Canary Wharf in London.
 ''Over the next 10 years, you are going to see 60 million square feet of office space here, that is a build-out the size of downtown Boston,'' Mr. Gale said looking across the one-year-old island, its shores lapped by the waves of the Yellow Sea. 
 About 200 miles across the Yellow Sea lies China, the driver for the Songdo development. One of the region's most aggressive bets on the China trade, Songdo is intended to be a corporate hub in a free economic zone, a bilingual English-Korean city where foreigners can own land, run schools and hospitals and where companies can get relief from Korean taxes and bureaucracy. 
 By 2008, a six-lane, 6.4-mile bridge is to connect Songdo with Incheon International Airport, a $5.5 billion complex with direct flights to 24 Chinese cities.
 On Nov. 11, ground is to be broken here for a $2 billion first phase, a 12-million-square-foot complex slightly smaller than Rockefeller Center. By 2007, this 94-acre core of the future city is to hold a convention center, a retail mall, 1,200 hotel rooms, 2,300 apartments, and a 65-story Northeast Asia World Trade Center. 
 ''It is Korea's challenge to Pudong. Can Korea challenge Shanghai?'' Richard C. Holbrooke, chairman of the Asia Society, said in an interview referring to the Pudong financial center in Shanghai. ''Everyone knows they will finish on time, or ahead of schedule and on budget, because Koreans always do. The critical question is, Will they get enough tenants, headquarters, companies to make it viable?''
 For now, Inchon is not bracing for a corporate version of Gen. Douglas MacArthur's famous Korean War landing of September 1950. Multinational companies seem to be saying, Build it, and then, maybe, we will come.
 ''One theme we hear is: 'Get it going, and then come back and talk to us,''' John B. Hynes III, president of Gale International Korea, said in an interview after his office contacted the 550 American and European companies in South Korea. ''We hear, 'Where are my people going to live? Where are their kids going to go to school? Where are they going to have lunch? What are they going to do on weekends?'''
 Il Young Main, Korea president for United Technologies, said after one Songdo presentation in Seoul: ''Location, location, location -- who wants to go there? All the companies say they want to be in Seoul.''
 But many South Koreans are already voting with their feet, migrating to the shore of the Yellow Sea. Next to the Songdo site, apartment towers with 8,000 units are nearing completion. One year from now, it is expected that 25,000 people will be living there.
 The shift reflects a turning from Seoul, the nation's inland capital, 30 miles east of here. It is a congested city with traffic jams, high housing prices and odd odors from storm drains. To relieve centralization in Seoul, President Roh Moo Hyun is preparing to move much of the capital to Yeongi-Gongju, a small city about 100 miles south of Seoul.
 For business, Inchon is regaining an economic vibrancy it enjoyed a century ago as Korea's ''Chinese city.'' With the rise of China, some of South Korea's economic action is shifting west to the Yellow Sea. Last year, the government announced a goal of tens of billions of dollars in new investment by 2020 in the Yeongjong area, the part of the free economic zone that includes the airport.
 ''We don't see China as a competitor, but rather, as complementing us,'' Lee Hwan Kyun, chief executive of the Inchon Free Economic Zone Authority, said in an interview here. ''We see Korea and China as being interdependent.''
 With China having surpassed the United States as South Korea's largest trading partner, exports to China are helping to push South Korea's overall exports up by about one quarter this year, to a forecast level of $245 billion.
 Songdo will offer parks, two miles of canals, a seaside cultural center, an aquarium and three attractions that South Koreans usually can enjoy only if they get on an airplane: an 18-hole golf course; a privately owned, American-managed international school; and a privately owned, American-managed hospital.
 ''So many people I know in Seoul send their kids with the mother to study in the U.S., while the father stays home and works for the chaebol,'' James von Klemperer, principal of Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, the architectural firm for the master plan, said referring to South Korea's big conglomerates.
 The developers are banking that there will be a market for years to come for a Yellow Sea city that offers expatriate families a comfortable Western lifestyle. Looking at demographics and economics, planners say that 51 cities of one million people or more are within a 3 1/2-hour flight, a radius that includes almost one-third of the world's economic activity.
 On a recent afternoon, airplane noise was not noticeable here. This is lucky because airport authorities have set a goal of carrying 70 million passengers by 2010, triple this year's forecast level of 23.5 million. Under a $3.6 billion expansion, Inchon would emerge in 2008 as the world's 10th-largest airport in passenger capacity. For cargo, the airport's annual handling capacity is nearly doubling, to 4.5 million tons by 2008. 
 This fall, Korea's National Assembly is expected to pass legislation that would allow foreign schools in free economic zones to admit Korean students, and also take away some of the union power in work sites. The planners say that Songdo will emerge as a center for finance and development of high technology. 
 ''It is important that the government's commitments are very strong,'' Huh Chan Guk, director of macroeconomic studies at the Korea Economic Research Institute, said in an interview. ''They must ensure the foreign investors that the regulations will work, there will be tax incentives and the labor-management issue will be controlled.'' 
 Free-zone measures include a flat 17 percent income tax on foreign executives and employees, no import duties on import of capital goods, and cash grants for foreign high-technology investments. 
 Hong Jae Hyong, a National Assembly member and chairman of the ruling party's policy committee, predicted that Seoul would pass the special economic zone measures on schools, hospitals and labor relations, ''as a sign shown by the government of how much we welcome foreign investment, and how much the government is willing to make the environment friendly to foreigners.''
 Last year, new foreign direct investment to South Korea fell by almost a third, to $6.5 billion. With much of Songdo's $20 billion price tag expected to come from overseas, this project seems bound to become one of the largest foreign investments here for many years to come.
 Government planners freely admit that one strategy behind Inchon and two other coastal economic zones is to set an example for what economic liberalism and reduction of red tape can do, creating support for the adoption of such measures on a national scale.
 ''The entire country should be a free economic zone,'' Bill Oberlin, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea, said at one recent public forum in Seoul on the project. Kwon Tae Shin, deputy minister of finance and economy for international affairs, said, ''The reason we started free economic zones is because we cannot make all of Korea a free economic zone.''
 With Northeast Asia currently a world hot spot for economic growth, Songdo does not need to become the region's Hong Kong to succeed.
 ''Everyone is groping, competing to be a hub,'' said Nicholas Platt, president emeritus of the Asia Society, who visited the Songdo site this year. ''Shanghai wants to be a hub; Inchon wants to be a hub; Pusan wants to be a hub. Frankly there is room for all of them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An American is developing a trade center on a man-made island in the Yellow Sea off Inchon, South Korea. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
Stanley Gale, above, chief of the Gale Company, based in Florham Park, N.J., is developing a trade hub on an island rising off Inchon, Korea. Below, a rendering of the Songdo City Convention Center. (Photo by John W. Wheeler)
 (Photo by Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates)(pg. W7)Map of South Korea highlighting Inchon: Inchon, on the Yellow Sea, is benefiting from trade with China. (pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); KOREAN WAR (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); AIRPORTS (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); TRENDS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; Area Planning and Renewal; Foreign Investment

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%) James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) South Korea; Songdo City (South Korea); Inchon (South Korea); South Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



503 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2336 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''THE BROWN BUNNY,'' starring Vincent Gallo and Chloe Sevigny. Written and directed by Mr. Gallo (not rated, 92 minutes). Neither an atrocity nor a revelation, ''The Brown Bunny'' is a very watchable, often beautiful-looking attempt by Mr. Gallo to reproduce the kind of loosely structured mood pieces that found American and select foreign-language cinema of the 1960's and 70's often at its most adventurous, with Monte Hellman's 1971 ''Two-Lane Blacktop'' the most obvious touchstone. Mr. Gallo plays Bud Clay, a motorcycle racer (and the title's symbolic bunny) on his way back home to Los Angeles from a New Hampshire meet. As Bud racks up miles, he stares moodily at the road, visits a childhood haunt, eats a lonely meal, sleeps a lonely motel sleep, takes his motorcycle for a spin and exchanges small talk with a few women, all of whom have the soft, bruised look of chronic disappointment. Eventually Bud hits Los Angeles, where he checks into a hotel, and where yet another flower of femininity, Ms. Sevigny's Daisy, gives the film its back story and furnishes what the porn industry calls, in rather more direct language, its economic raison d'etre (Manohla Dargis).

* ''CELLULAR,'' starring Kim Basinger, Chris Evans and William H. Macy (PG-13, 89 minutes). In this improbable, improbably entertaining action thriller, a Los Angeles science teacher (Ms. Basinger) is kidnapped by a squad of baddies who lock her in an attic with a telephone that works just well enough for her to connect, at random, with the cell phone of a surfer (Mr. Evans), who spends the rest of the movie trying to rescue her. In an age of self-important, bloated blockbusters, this movie, directed with breeziness and rigor by Mr. Ellis, is a refreshing rarity: an honest, unpretentious B picture, with enough decent jokes, crackerjack car chases and plot convolutions to make the price of the ticket seem like a reasonable bargain. Mr. Macy adds a wry, touching note as the weary L.A.P.D. veteran who helps the surfer in his effort to save the science teacher (A. O. Scott).

* ''COLLATERAL,'' starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 115 minutes). In ''Collateral,'' the edgy new thriller from Mr. Mann, the city never sleeps; it doesn't even relax. Set in Los Angeles mostly after dark, after the sunshine has given way to cool noir, the story centers on a taxi driver, Max (Mr. Foxx), and the assassin Vincent (Mr. Cruise), who hops a ride with him deep into the night. Pitched between interludes of anxious intimacy and equally nerve-shredding set pieces, ''Collateral'' scores its points with underhand precision. The film is about a lot of different things, about how Los Angeles lights up even at night, how cars become prostheses of ourselves and how driving with the radio on can be bliss. But as with all of Mr. Mann's movies, ''Collateral'' is finally about men and work, and about how being a man is itself a kind of job, which explains why this fastidiously made commercial film isn't just an entertainment, but a statement of personal faith (Dargis).

''CRIMINAL,'' starring John C. Reilly, Diego Luna and Maggie Gyllenhaal. Directed by Gregory Jacobs (R, 87 minutes). Mr. Reilly may be one of our finer character actors, but his portrayal in ''Criminal'' of a gimlet-eyed con man allows too many vestiges of the duped schlub of a husband he played in ''Chicago'' to leak into his performance. But the Mametesque film has strong supporting performances by Mr. Luna, as Mr. Reilly's not-so-naive protege in swindling, and Ms. Gyllenhaal, as Mr. Reilly's angry sister. The film, a fairly faithful adaptation of the Argentine director Fabian Bielinski's ''Nine Queens,'' is a clever and diverting caper, relocated from South America to Los Angeles. Instead of rare stamps being pursued by assorted grifters and counterfeiters, the priceless fetish being sought is the counterfeit of an 1878 Monroe silver certificate. Mr. Mamet covered roughly the same territory with far more zest and cunning in ''House of Games,'' a movie that unlike ''Criminal'' leaves you with the uneasy sense of living in a world run by diabolically clever thieves gloating over the naivete of suckers like you and me (Stephen Holden).

* ''GHOST IN THE SHELL 2: INNOCENCE,'' with the voices of Akio Otsuka and Atsukko Tanaka. Directed by Mamoru Oshii (PG-13, 99 minutes; in Japanese, with subtitles). Androids don't dream of electric sheep in Mr. Oshii's hallucinatory meditation on life in the shadow of the machine world. They dream of suicide, an unlikely act of violence that one android or ''gynoid,'' a sexual pet with a tragic face and luridly flexible limbs, commits by clawing at its synthetic skin like a grieving widow. This movie is a sequel to the Japanese filmmaker's 1995 anime, ''Ghost in the Shell,'' about a female detective who inhabits and then loses her artificial body. Set in 2032, the new anime centers on her former colleague, the stone-faced cyborg Batou, a male cop who trowels a future-shock world in which sex dolls commit virtual seppuku against a swirl of film-noir intrigue, philosophical speculation, eye-popping images and serious science-fiction cool, and where machines often seem more human their human masters (Dargis).

''HERO,'' starring Jet Li. Directed by Zhang Yimou (PG-13, 99 minutes; in Mandarin, with English subtitles). In Mr. Zhang's ''Hero,'' an ambitious period epic about the birth of the first Chinese empire, warriors fly through the air like birds of prey, their swords cutting through enemies and lovers alike. Set during the third century B.C., the story of an assassination plot unfolds with such dazzling bursts of color and blurs of furious action that it might be easy to miss the nationalistic message tucked amid the visual enchantments. The martial-arts film star Jet Li is the title's nameless warrior, who claims to have vanquished the king's most feared enemies, Sky (Donnie Yen), Snow (Maggie Cheung Man-yuk) and the powerful Broken Sword (Tony Leung Chiu-wai). In time, Nameless spins a second, a third and finally a fourth version, changes in perspective that Mr. Zhang signals with shifts of color that flood the screen with a red as vivid as that of a Little Red Book, a spotless white, a delicate blue and a pale pistachio so mouthwatering you may want to lick the screen. Roll over, Chairman Mao, and tell the comrades the news: the history of the empire now comes wrapped in kaleidoscopic kung fu cool (Dargis).

* ''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Ms. Sandino) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Sandino's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromise but never undermine her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing (Holden).

* ''RED LIGHTS,'' starring Jean-Pierre Darroussin and Carole Bouquet. Directed by Cedric Kahn (not rated, 106 minutes; in French with English subtitles). This brilliant, sinister French thriller is a twisty road movie in which every sign points toward catastrophe. As night falls during the journey of an unhappily married couple from Paris to Bordeaux, the clogged highway takes them into descending levels of psychosexual hell. Mr. Darroussin's Antoine is a mousy, balding insurance salesman who hates his job and resents his more successful wife, a sleek corporate lawyer. The movie is a study of male passive aggression that comes up with a malicious Hemingwayesque solution to Antoine's masculinity crisis. When his wife, fed up with his drinking on the road, deserts him to take the train, he picks up a hitchhiker he knows may be a dangerous escaped convict and courts the redemptive (and grisly) male rite of passage he's been seeking. Following Jean-Luc Godard's ''Weekend'' and Claire Denis's ''Friday Night,'' ''Red Lights'' uses the traffic jam as a potent screen metaphor for something bigger (Holden).

''SILVER CITY,'' starring Chris Cooper, Danny Huston and Richard Dreyfuss. Written and directed by John Sayles (R, 124 minutes). In his latest lesson in How the World Really Works, Mr. Sayles cooks up a conspiracy of politicians, land developers and big corporations in Colorado colluding to despoil the envirnonment and oppress the workers. It falls to a disgraced journalist-turned-private-eye named Danny O'Brien (Mr. Huston) to unravel the skeins of greed and corruption that threaten the state of Colorado. His investigation consists mainly of long, expository conversations with victims and accomplices, and after a while the movie begins to feel like a long episode of ''The Rockford Files'' written by the staff of The Nation. The issue is not whether Mr. Sayles is right about the nature of political power and economic influence, but whether he can be bothered to embed his ethical and political concerns in a persuasive human reality. He can't, in spite of the good work of a talented cast, including Mr. Cooper as a gubernatorial candidate named Dickie Pilager, a mean (and dated) caricature of George W. Bush that Mr. Cooper cannot help but endow with the hint of a soul (Scott).

''SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW,'' starring Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie and Giovanni Ribisi. Written and directed by Kerry Conran (PG, 107 minutes). In this movie's elegant murk, Mr. Law and Ms. Paltrow slip into comic-book archetypes of the dashing aviator and the intrepid girl reporter with supreme confidence. But can the movie establish a swashbuckling franchise as commercially potent as the Indiana Jones movies? When Mr. Conran's remarkable filmmaking debut remembers that storytelling and characters matter more than design and special effects, the movie charms as well as impresses. If nothing else, it is a landmark of computer-generated images whose actors cavort through an entirely synthetic, retro-styled future world that fuses Art Deco, Futurism, Fritz Lang's ''Metropolis'' and the spirit of the 1939 World's Fair into an all-purpose eve-of-World War II environment extrapolated into a science-fiction limbo. But its visual elegance comes at a price. Its ethereal evocation of a pulp-fiction future-past eclipses almost any other sci-fi franchise in subtlety and imagination, but shadowy washed-out color is a far cry from the robust hues of a movie like ''Raiders of the Lost Ark.'' At times, it's hard to see what's on the screen (Holden).

''VANITY FAIR,'' starring Reese Witherspoon and James Purefoy. Directed by Mira Nair (PG-13, 141 minutes). Her eyes snapping like tiny firecrackers, Ms. Witherspoon makes an appealingly crafty Becky Sharp in Ms. Nair's bland but color-drenched screen adaptation of William Makepeace Thackeray's 1848 novel. The star, as usual, conveys a bristly, determined spunk. But if her performance emits enough sparks to hold the screen, it never ignites a dramatic brush fire. You long for more Scarlett O'Hara and less Elle Woods. Her Becky comes across as a lightweight schemer about as formidable as an aspiring trophy wife on a daytime soap. In compressing a novel that spans three decades of the early 19th century, the movie becomes increasingly hurried and eventually loses track of time, and in trying to mix satire and romance it proves once again that the two are about as compatible as lemon juice and heavy cream. It flashes to comic life in those scenes that convey Thackeray's disdain for the preening foolishness and snobbery of early 19th-century English society and the crass symbiotic relationship between money and aristocracy (Holden).

''WIMBLEDON,'' starring Kirsten Dunst and Paul Bettany. Directed by Richard Loncraine (PG-13, 100 minutes). Will pre-game sexual high jinks give you the edge you need to win at tennis? Or will they distract you from mobilizing the killer instinct necessary to blast through to victory? That's the earth-shattering question at the heart of ''Wimbledon,'' a likable, formulaic sports movie that follows the miraculous comeback of an insecure 31-year-old British tennis pro named Peter (Mr. Bettany) whose career resurrects on the wings of love. At Wimbledon, where he's playing his final professional matches, he meets and falls in love with Lizzie, a super-competitive American pro (Ms. Dunst) on the fast track to the women's championship. She appears unstoppable until Peter enters her life. The moment her defenses start to crumble, her concentration falters. As the trajectories of their careers reverse, Peter credits Lizzie with spurring his triumphs, while she bitterly blames him for her fall from grace. The film's most refreshing idea is to present a male sports hero who doesn't see himself primarily as an invincible fighting machine. He is courtly, witty, sensitive and apologetic to a fault (Holden).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pulp nostalgia: Jude Law and Gwyneth Paltrow in ''Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow.'' (Photo by Paramount Pictures)
 Would-be candidate caught in a web of power and corruption: Chris Cooper in ''Silver City.'' (Photo by Bob Marshak/Newmarket Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (63%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (58%); GWYNETH PALTROW (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



504 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: With Yankees Coming, Red Sox Hope To Keep the Party From Turning Ugly

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
On the pavement of Yawkey Way outside Fenway Park on Thursday night, amid the smells of grilled sausages and many other foods, a young man on stilts wore a Red Sox uniform that said ''Big League Brian'' on the back.
 He walked steadily, in a practiced way, next to the Hot Tamale Brass Band, which was serenading fans with ''Besame Mucho'' as they filed into the game between the Red Sox and the Baltimore Orioles.
 The temperature was 66 degrees, the clear sky was streaked with the reds of autumn's setting sun, the wind and humidity were low and a bright half-moon rose in the backdrop between buildings. The working conditions were not too shabby. ''I love my job,'' Big League Brian said. ''Nothing like walking around a bunch of drunk people on stilts.'' 
 He spoke in jest before a 9-7 defeat that left the Red Sox four and a half games behind the Yankees in the race for first place in the American League East. Although some of the fans were drinking, the crowd was mellow and smiling.
 They did not leave as happy, however. The Red Sox were on the verge of a third consecutive victory in their last at-bat after Manny Ramirez's two-run single with the bases loaded and two out in the ninth. That brought up David Ortiz, but his fly ball to right field was caught on the warning track.
 Now the Red Sox' archrivals from the Bronx arrive for three games this weekend to finish Boston's home schedule before the playoffs. The Red Sox probably will qualify as the A.L. wild card; the Yankees clinched a playoff spot on Thursday.
 Of course, all the tickets are sold for the weekend. In the smallest and oldest major league ballpark, with a capacity of 36,298, every ticket has been sold for every game this year, the first time in Red Sox history. Business has never been better in America's quaintest, quirkiest sports theater.
 For the past two years, Yawkey Way has become an extension of the park on game days, with turnstiles set up on the corners and the street used as an extended concourse. Later Thursday night, many fans with tickets stayed out on the street, watching the game on a big television picture projected from the ballpark onto the wide, white wall of a building across the street. That started just this week.
 Nearby, Mickey Bones, the drummer and leader of the Hot Tamale Brass Band, was counting the dollar-bill tips in his instrument case as he said: ''This is our regular gig. We've been doing it for six or seven years.''
 Bones said the Fenway crowds seem bigger and a little more raucous when the Yankees are in town, perhaps because everyone who buys a ticket uses it. He said one of the perks of his job is that he and his musical mates get to see every game free. ''Standing room only,'' said Bones, of Salem, Mass.
 When tickets are in such demand, they create their own economic forces, and the Red Sox hope to crack down on scalping. They said this week that employees of the team, under cover, have begun to buy seats on the streets and over the Internet. If they can trace the tickets back to season-ticket holders, they may cancel the subscriptions. 
 If people wish to sell extra tickets at face value, the team will soon establish a ''scalp-free zone'' near the gates so that fans can avoid legal problems. The Orioles have a similar setup at Camden Yards.
 Charles J. Cellucci, the Red Sox' director of security, said he could not predict how well the plan would work. Cellucci, a former deputy superintendent of the Boston police, said the stadium was so small that few people would have extra tickets.
 ''We'll give it a shot and see if we get any participation,'' Cellucci said.
 The average ticket price is $43, but seats are offered for this weekend by some ticket brokers for several hundred dollars each. 
 Cellucci said that when the Yankees are in town, he uses the maximum staff for ballpark security and a police detail that is double the size of a normal game. There have been past incidents between fans and Yankees players, and a bullpen brawl last year involved a groundskeeper.
 Cellucci said he was trying to cut down on confrontations and other unpleasantness by training staff members to be proactive and conversational with customers and to project ''a positive attitude instead of a negative attitude'' when addressing rowdy behavior in its early stages. 
 If it does not work, he said, ''we take a strong stand and eject them.'' 
 And what did Cellucci predict for this Yankees weekend?
 ''A busy one, but I think it will be a safe one,'' he said. ''We've got maximum deployment, maximum coverage. Our supervisors will be right on top of this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Orioles' Larry Bigbie sliding past Red Sox catcher Jason Varitek to score in the eighth inning at Fenway Park. (Photo by Jessica Rinaldi/Reuters)(pg. D1)
 Boston's Orlando Cabrera avoiding Melvin Mora and completing a double play. (Photo by Jessica Rinaldi/Reuters)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); TICKET SALES (76%) Baseball; Fenway Park (Boston); Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%) New York Yankees; Boston Red Sox

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



505 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2100 words

HEADLINE: Retired? Yes. Retiring? No.

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

DATELINE: ST. GEORGE, Utah 

 BODY:
AT daybreak on a recent morning, the average age on the Virgin River Trail hovered between AARP eligibility and Medicare beneficiary, settling in somewhere north of 60. As Bill Boulter biked up the mesquite-lined path in a 20-mile loop, he passed a parade of gray-bearded grandfathers on recumbent bicycles, silver-haired joggers covered in Lycra and liver spots, and power walkers with walking sticks. 
 ''I call them raisins because they're all wrinkly and slow,'' said Mr. Boulter, 60 and a grandfather. ''But I should talk. I'm rapidly becoming a raisin myself.''
 In the latest twist on retirement living, aging baby boomers are abandoning the surf-and-turf enclaves of Florida or Arizona, in favor of fitness-minded enclaves where they can raft, rock climb and hike well into old age. The new retirees are sort of a senior version of college-age ski bums, migrating to resort towns not to work but to play all day. ''They aren't getting their gold watch and sitting on a rocking chair,'' said Amber McCracken, a spokeswoman for the Alliance for Aging Research based in Washington. 
 And with 38 million older baby boomers nearing retirement age, communities catering to grizzled jocks are starting to emerge wherever the winters are mild, the land is relatively affordable and the great outdoors is a short hop away. Many have cropped up in the Pacific Northwest and the Rockies, places like Hood River, Ore.; Durango, Colo.; and other small resort towns that offer a dizzying array of outdoor activities.
 ''We see retirees as tourists who stay longer,'' said James Westkott, a state demographer for Colorado, which has had a surge of ''interim retirees,'' affluent boomers who are enjoying active retirement in their 50's. ''These places were developed as second-home communities, but are now being turned into retirement communities.'' 
 The trendsetter, however, may be Washington County and its hub city, St. George, in the southwest corner of Utah, near the Arizona and Nevada borders and two hours northeast of Las Vegas. ''It's the fastest-growing retirement community in the country,'' said John Burns, a real estate consultant from Irvine, Calif., who has written extensively about retirement migration. 
 The allure is not hard to see. Etched into the red-rock cliffs, St. George offers a seemingly endless array of hiking and biking trails. Eight national and state parks are within close driving distance, including the North Rim of the Grand Canyon and Zion National Park. The city itself has a 30-mile network of trails along the Virgin and Santa Clara Rivers that connect with longer paths. Two teal-blue reservoirs double as parks and marinas. A third lake will be at Sand Hollow Reservoir State Park, which is nearing completion and will offer boating, fishing, water-skiing, off-road driving and even more hiking.
 Then there are the city's 10 golf courses, but they are less popular than many had anticipated. ''My dad played golf,'' smirked Art Miller, 64, a retired civil engineer who moved to St. George from the Denver area.
 For many retirees, the area looks like one giant playground. ''I don't think of it as retiring,'' said Paul Alcantra, 68, a former president of Eastern Sierra College Center in Bishop, Calif., who moved to St. George two years ago, with his wife, Edna. ''I think of it as refocusing.'' These days, his focus is on exploring new hikes, working on his pickle ball (a variant of tennis) and installing a weight room in his new 2,300-square-foot house. ''I can bench press 250 pounds,'' he said. 
 RETIREES began moving to St. George in large numbers in the early 1990's, having learned about it through word of mouth or having discovered the town en route to Zion. Still others came because St. George, to them, is where old people go to become jocks. Every October, thousands of athletes ages 50 and up converge at St. George for the Huntsman World Senior Games, an Olympics-style competition that adds a new twist to the term ''senior varsity.'' Now in its 18th year, the tournament pits elders against elders in 22 sports, from downhill mountain biking to the Senior Games' answer to synchronized swimming: square dancing.
 By 2000, adults ages 60 and older made up nearly a quarter of the city's 50,000 residents, compared with the national average of 16 percent. Developers spotted a real estate gold mine and began building communities to attract more retirees to the area.
 ''St. George was a perfect mix,'' said Darcy Stewart, the developer of SunRiver, the largest adult community in the area. ''It offers a warm climate, proximity to Las Vegas and all the outdoor things that retired people are looking for.''
 Built in 1998 on the outskirts of St. George, SunRiver has 600 homes that vaguely resemble Spanish Colonial villas. But unlike traditional housing restricted to ages 55 and higher, SunRiver makes no mention of the word ''retirement,'' and feels more like a college campus for graying students than a nursing home disguised as a country club. At the heart of SunRiver is a recreation center with a circuit-training gym, swimming pool, dance studio, locker rooms and a ballroom. The front desk distributes a monthly calendar that lists as many as a half-dozen activities a day, from long hikes to tai chi. Adjacent to the center are seven tennis and pickle ball courts, a patch of green for lawn bowling and a clubhouse for the 18-hole golf course that rings the entire property.
 In a sense, SunRiver is not so different from Sun City in Phoenix, the retirement development built four decades ago by the Del Webb Corporation that spawned a new genre of ''active adult'' communities. But SunRiver is much smaller, only 1,200 residents, compared with the more than 45,000 who live in Sun City. Moreover, SunRiver was designed to be a neighborhood of St. George, not a resort city onto itself. ''We looked at Sun City, but the population was too old,'' said Janet Odle, 62, who moved here two years ago from California. ''We like the fact that there's younger people around.''
 Indeed, only a small fraction of the retirees in St. George live in adult communities. The vast majority are scattered throughout the city, in dozens of other planned developments with names like Coral Canyon and Garden Park that are not restricted to those 55 and older.
 Signs of retirees in training are everywhere. Twice a week, Gary Thayne, 58, takes a break from his triathlon training and launches a small speedboat into the Quail Creek State Park and Reservoir, about 13 miles northeast of St. George. Once afloat, Mr. Thayne puts on a life jacket and jumps into the water with his Sky Ski -- a tethered apparatus that resembles a snowboard with a hydrofoil fin. With his son-in-law at the wheel, he holds onto a rope as he flies over the water, mimicking a human jet ski. 
 ''We're just amateurs,'' Mr. Thayne said after his run, wiping himself dry. ''Come back in two years, and we'll be doing 360-degree stunts in the air.''
 ''I need to stay fit to keep up with all the other geezers,'' said Biff Lowry, 77, who could be described as the Mark Spitz of his generation (he took home seven gold medals in swimming at the Huntsman Games two years ago). Every morning, Mr. Lowry reports to the Sand Hollow Aquatic Center in St. George, where he strips down to his bathing suit, dons a white rubber cap and does more than a mile by lunchtime. ''There's a guy who just turned 75 who is remarkable,'' he said of another swimmer.
 But the fiercest competition may be among the older baby boomers, who are hitting 58 this year. Instead of treating retirement as a time to withdraw from the world, as their parents' generation did, many boomers seem to see retirement as just another challenge. For them, retirement is a continuing adventure, not a permanent vacation.
 ''It is no longer God's waiting room,'' said Daniel Perry, executive director at the Alliance for Aging Research. ''Baby boomers are much healthier. Not only do they enjoy a longer life expectancy, but they are less disabled. And they are determined not to age the way that past generations have.''
THAT would rule out playing bingo in Boca Raton, Fla. ''Boomers aren't going to sit back and just collect from the government,'' said Edward L. Schneider, dean emeritus at the University of Southern California's Leonard Davis School of Gerontology. ''They are looking forward to doing things they hadn't done before.''
 They are also moving to places that their parents only visited. ''You'll see seniors next to national parks, near the seashore, or wherever they can stay active and stay vital,'' Dr. Schneider said. ''They are looking for a one-story house, located in a community where they can have lots of recreation and lots of exercise.''
 Home builders, in response, are starting to go outside the traditional Sun Belt and into places as varied as the lush forests of Redmond, Wash., and the foothills of the Colorado Rockies. ''It's a very significant shift,'' said Gopal Ahluwalia, an economist and vice president of research at the National Association of Home Builders. ''Before, the proximity to the doctor's office and hospital were the main concerns. Now, the most important things are walking and jogging trails.''
 That was certainly the clincher for Mr. Boulter and his wife, Terri, who moved to St. George this summer, even though Mr. Boulter does not plan to retire from the pacemaker business for several years. But why stay in Dallas, Mr. Boulter figured, when he could ''bike here all year long'' and ease into retirement gracefully. ''If I can still beat my son at racquetball and ride my bike for 50 miles,'' he asked, ''how old can I be?''

HOT SPOTS
Getting Older and Getting Better, at Rock Climbing or Soccer

Rio Vista, Calif.

WHERE -- On the banks of the Sacramento River Delta, about 50 miles southwest of Sacramento.

WHY -- Fishing is king here, but the area also offers boating, sailing and yachting. The Black Diamond Mines Regional Preserve and Mount Diablo State Park are within easy driving distance.

HOUSING -- Trilogy at Rio Vista, a subsidiary of the Shea Homes, is an 800-acre planned community that currently has 1,200 homes, a health club, an 18-hole golf course and extensive walking trails. Prices range from $303,999 for a 1,153-square-foot two-bedroom house to $488,999 for a two-bedroom 2,541-square-foot unit. At Homecoming, another new development, a two-bedroom house with two bathrooms is offered at $330,000.

ACTIVITIES -- An hour away, the California Senior Games Sacramento Sports Classic is an annual spring event involving sports as diverse as archery, soccer and track. Salsa and tango are included in a ballroom dancing competition along with waltzes and fox trots.

Durango, Colo.

WHERE -- Near the San Juan National Forest, in the Four Corners area where Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Arizona meet.

WHY -- This artsy resort town with a population of 15,000 is near skiing (Durango Mountain Resort, formerly Purgatory, is about 25 miles north of town). The jagged and lush terrain also caters to hikers, cyclists and rock climbers. Nearby rivers and lakes offer fishing and rafting.

HOUSING -- Brookstone, just northeast of town, has 1,680- to 1,880-square-foot condominiums, for ages 55 and over, ranging from $359,000 to $439,000. Most retirees, however, live in houses originally purchased as second homes. Currently on the market is a three-bedroom log house on four acres with a two-car garage at $305,000.

ACTIVITIES -- Seniors Outdoors!, a volunteer-run group, organizes hikes, rock-climbing trips and other excursions.

Hood River, Ore.

WHERE -- The scenic crossroads of the Columbia River Gorge and the Cascade Mountain Range, 60 miles east of Portland.

WHY -- The diverse geography lends itself to a wide range of outdoor activities, from kayaking and sailing on the Columbia River to hiking and climbing in the mountains.

HOUSING -- Hood River, population 5,800, has few planned adult communities. Construction of Highlands at Indian Creek, a 55-and-older community, began in 2000, and the last two units were sold last summer. The community consists of six buildings with three units each, ranging from 1,900 to 3,000 square feet and starting at $275,000. On the market now is a three-bedroom, 1,500 square-foot ranch-style house with views of Mount Adams for $225,000. A three-bedroom house under construction on .14 acres in a new subdivision on the west side of the Hood River is offered at $218,000.

ACTIVITIES -- The old Columbia River Highway is popular with hikers, bicyclists and bird watchers. The waterfront also attracts many older windsurfers.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Friday with an article about active retirees in St. George, Utah, misstated the age of Bill Boulter, a resident there. He is 60, as reported in the article, not 55. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: AT PLAY -- Edna Alcantra and her husband, Paul, play pickle ball, a variant of tennis, almost every morning in St. George.
IN PLACE -- Although still working, Bill Boulter, 55, an avid cyclist, has moved to St. George so he can ease into retirement.
ON THE RUN -- Gary Thayne, 58, runs near his home in St. George, Utah. A triathlete, he is one of many people his age and older who are embracing active lives in new communities. (Photographs by John Locher for The New York Times)(pg. F8)
 WHAT ROCKING CHAIR? -- Biff Lowry of St. George, Utah, swims over a mile most days before noon. At 77, he's a trailblazer for younger retirees who seek active outdoor pursuits in towns that are starting to cater to them. (Photo by John Locher for The New York Times)(pg. F1)Map of Utah highlighting St. George. (pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); AGING (90%); HIKING (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); LAKES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ELDER HEALTH (74%); AGING TRENDS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CLIMBING (68%) Retirement Communities and Assisted Living

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (84%)

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: ST GEORGE, UT, USA (97%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); DURANGO, CO, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Pacific Northwestern States (US); St George (Utah)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



506 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Lights! Camera! Sting! Popcorn and Pirandello Are Taking On the Mob

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
Movies are sometimes made for strange reasons, and sometimes for no good reason at all. ''The Last Shot,'' an R-rated comedy from Disney which opens today nationwide, is about the first kind of movie, but unfortunately it belongs to the second type. Adapted from a nonfiction magazine article, it tells the improbable ''making of'' story of a film that was never actually made, but that was part of an F.B.I. sting operation aimed at the mob in Providence, R.I. 
 To ensnare a mid-level boss who controls a corrupt union local, an enterprising undercover agent (Alec Baldwin) poses as a Hollywood producer, setting up an elaborate and phony project, complete with lights, cameras, stars and an unsuspecting director (Matthew Broderick).
 From time to time, as ''The Last Shot'' rambles and stumbles through a hectic, slipshod plot, a spark of clever movie-industry satire pops into view. Joan Cusack, uncredited in the opening titles, rants and trills through two uproarious scenes as a fast-talking agent. Toni Collette, as the platinum-blond star of the movie-within-the-movie, is a vision of fluttery narcissism. Mr. Baldwin, beefy and stoical, manages a few deadpan jokes, and his bureau supervisors give notes as if they were real-life studio executives.
 But despite these moments and a promising conceit, the movie, written and directed by Jeff Nathanson (whose screenwriting credits include ''The Terminal''), is laborious and logy when it should be madcap and effervescent.
 Mr. Broderick's character, Steven Schats, is a failed screenwriter who pays the rent taking tickets at Grauman's Chinese Theater and lives above a kennel with his high-strung girlfriend (Calista Flockhart), an aspiring actress. Agent Devine (Mr. Baldwin), whom the plot contrives to make a dog-lover in mourning, arrives out of nowhere to greenlight Steven's project, a New Age romantic melodrama called ''Arizona,'' which for reasons of law-enforcement must be shot in the gray, snowy streets of Rhode Island. It is gratifying to note that Providence, rather than being impersonated by some Canadian city, is mostly allowed to play itself -- its younger self, at any rate. The movie, set in 1985, features period-appropriate boxy sedans and giant cellphones, but also many anachronistic views of that city's radically rebuilt downtown.
 A lot of time is spent gazing at scenery, waiting for something interesting to happen. There is no shortage of incident, but the story trips in a half-dozen directions. Steven and Agent Devine are given parallel sibling-rivalry subplots, which serve mainly as excuses to bring Tim Blake Nelson and Ray Liotta a few moments of irrelevant screen time.
 The mood is no more consistent than the narrative, veering from puppy-dog sweetness to hard-edged vulgarity to antic spoofiness. In the case of ''Arizona,'' the feds ultimately pull the plug. Disney might have learned something from them.
 ''The Last Shot'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has vulgarity, sexual situations and brief nudity.

THE LAST SHOT

Directed by Jeff Nathanson; written by Mr. Nathanson, based on the Details magazine article ''What's Wrong With This Picture?'' by Steve Fishman; director of photography, John Lindley; edited by David Rosenbloom; music by Rolfe Kent; production designer, William Arnold; produced by Larry Brezner and David Hoberman; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 93 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Matthew Broderick (Steven Schats), Alec Baldwin (Joe Devine), Toni Collette (Emily French), Tony Shalhoub (Tommy Sanz), Calista Flockhart (Valerie Weston), Tim Blake Nelson (Marshal Paris), Buck Henry (Lonnie Bosco) and Ray Liotta (Jack Devine).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Double take: Alec Baldwin and Toni Collette in ''The Last Shot.'' (Photo by Lorey Sebastian/Touchstone Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); WRITERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); THEATER (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (89%) A O Scott; Jeff Nathanson; Matthew Broderick; Alec Baldwin; Toni Colette

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (88%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



507 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 940 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Portrait Vanishes From Historical Society
 A portrait of Dr. David Hosack, a prominent surgeon who attended Alexander Hamilton on his deathbed after that legendary duel, has vanished from the New-York Historical Society's $5 million-plus exhibition ''Alexander Hamilton, the Man Who Made Modern America.''
 No, it wasn't stolen. 
 Apparently the designer of the exhibition, Ralph Appelbaum, installed a low railing to keep viewers in the portrait gallery from getting too close to the paintings. During the installation Rob del Bagno, the museum's head of exhibition and design services, tripped over the railing and recommended that it be removed. It wasn't.
 So on Sept. 10, the first day of the show, a visitor tripped over the railing while leaning forward to get a look at the portrait and poked his hand through the canvas. The visitor actually had to peel a piece of the canvas off his palm, others who witnessed the accident said. 
 The railing is now gone, and the portrait, painted in 1910 by Augustus Goodyear Heaton, is being restored by Kenneth S. Moser, a private conservator in Manhattan. 
 Heaton, an academic painter and a Historical Society president, donated the work to the institution. He made a career of copying earlier portraits of famous Americans. This work is a copy of a Hosack portrait by the painter John Trumbull that hangs on the walls of New York Hospital. 
 Mr. Moser said the restoration would be routine. 
 ''It has a tear in the lower portion of the canvas,'' he said. Fortunately, Mr. Moser added, all of the pieces that came off the canvas were salvaged and delivered to him in a plastic bag. 
 His job chiefly involves realigning threads and using adhesive to attach them to the edges where the tears occurred. Mr. Moser will also have to fill in some of the missing paint, to match the surrounding color and gloss. 
 ''It's repairable,'' Mr. Moser said. 
 Jake Lynn, a spokesman for the Historical Society, said officials were hoping to get the portrait back on the walls of the show as soon as possible, and well before it closes on Feb. 28.

Feathers and Mirrors
 The seven-foot cylindrical structure covered with white feathers on Duarte Square, a triangular patch at the intersection of Canal Street and the Avenue of the Americas, may seem a bit odd. But the Romanian-born artist who created it can explain. 
 ''I'm trying to debate the issue of safety, displacement and identity, all issues that go hand-in-hand,'' the artist, Leonard Ursachi, said of ''Refuge,'' which was installed last weekend and will be on view through Dec. 17. The work is one of a four bunkerlike structures that Mr. Ursachi has made over the years. Three are in the United States, and one in Romania.
 ''My bunker projects, with their twin references to war and home, address the complexities inherent in the creation and maintenance of identity,'' Mr. Urasachi said. 
 The work is one of many coordinated by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. The artist covers the cost of fabricating and installing the work as well as insurance. The payoff is the opportunity to exhibit his art to a large audience with support from the city. 
 ''Refuge'' has no entrance, but rather two recessed sky-blue mirrors in which visitors can see their reflection as they approach the piece. It is fashioned from a thin layer of rustproof steel covered in plastic, to which the artist glued turkey feathers purchased from a plume company in Texas. Because it weighs only about 150 pounds, it is held down with 1,000-pound sandbags, Mr. Ursachi said. 
 Once the structure comes down, its fate is uncertain. But ''I've already had interest from museums,'' the artist said.

Raising Money in Boston
 The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, may be gloating. This week it announced that it had raised $245 million, or more than 55 percent, of the $425 million target for its fund-raising campaign. The money is going toward an ambitious building project designed by Foster & Partners, the London architects, that is scheduled for completion in 2009. Officials at the museum say the fund-raising effort is one of the most ambitious for any cultural institution outside New York and the largest of any arts institution in the Boston area. 
 ''In a time of profound recession in a very conservative town, it's amazing that we have been able to raise so much money,'' said Malcolm Rogers, the museum's director. He said that 51 gifts were of $1 million or more, and that the majority of the money had come from donors in the Boston area.

On an Island in Paris
 Francois Pinault, the luxury goods magnate who melded a passion for contemporary art with a keen business savvy when he bought Christie's in 1998, is moving ahead with plans to build the Francois Pinault Foundation for Contemporary Art, a 350,000-square-foot building designed by the Japanese architect Tadao Ando, on the Ile Seguin, an island in the Seine in Paris. It is to open in late 2007. 
 Mr. Pinault is not only about to break ground but has also already hired a director: Philippe Vergne, a senior curator at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. 
 The two met at the 2003 Venice Biennale and have been talking ever since. ''We have three years in front of us to build in every sense of the word, to invent a structure to promote art and culture in the 21st century,'' Mr. Vergne said. 
 He will remain at the Walker through April 2005, when it opens its expanded space, designed by the Swiss architects Herzog and de Meuron. He will travel back and forth between Paris and Minneapolis while organizing a traveling retrospective of Huang Yong Ping, the Chinese-born, Paris-based conceptual artist.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1910 portrait of Dr. David Hosack, based on an original by John Trumbull, is no longer in an exhibition about Alexander Hamilton. (Photo by New-York Historical Society) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%) Art; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Accidents and Safety; Public Art; Art

ORGANIZATION: New-York Historical Society

PERSON: Augustus Goodyear Heaton; Kenneth S Moser; Leonard Ursachi; Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



508 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: There's a Lot Up the Sleeves Of Two Political Jokesters

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
It isn't every movie that features a man in a gold lame bodysuit with a three-foot gilt phallus that would make Superman blush or maybe just reconsider the whole Lois Lane thing. Then again it's not every film that features the Yes Men, a coterie of anti-corporate activists who travel the world with sartorial flair, political ire and a prodigious sense of the absurd. Like the makeover mavens from ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,'' the Yes Men have a way of winning over strangers and commandeering drab rooms. As the golden appendage proves, they also know a little something about accessorizing. 
 Part performance piece, part political intervention, the unveiling of the appendage takes pride of place in the new nonfiction film ''The Yes Men,'' which opens today in Manhattan. Directed by Chris Smith, Dan Ollman and Sarah Price, the film brings together some of the Yes Men's more recent pranks with a fly-on-the-wall look at how these activists operate. Diverting if heavily padded, this is the newest addition to an increasingly crowded field of political nonfiction films and certainly the easiest viewing. 
 Like many recent documentaries, ''The Yes Men'' takes a sacrosanct approach to its subject, up to the point that it sometimes plays like a promotional video, so it's unlikely to rock your world or worry your sleep. Entertainment rules even when the ideological vibe is more Noam Chomsky than Donald Trump. Still, because leftists tend to be downers, what with their horror stories about hegemony, it's a relief that the Yes Men are guided more by the spirit of Abbie Hoffman than Mr. Chomsky. (They're partly financed by the sympathetic likes of the Herb Alpert Foundation.)
 The waggery becomes evident in the film when two of the Yes Men, Andy Bichlbaum and Mike Bonanno, show up in Tampere, Finland, for an August 2001 trade conference called ''Textiles of the Future.'' The Yes Men had been invited by conference organizers, who, on visiting the activists' Web site believed they were contacting the real World Trade Organization. The opening pages on both groups' Web sites look identical, and none of the Finnish organizers bothered to vet the phony W.T.O. or its representatives, one of whom had infiltrated a seminar on international trade in Salzburg, Austria, the year before. 
 (That prank isn't included in the documentary, but it's worth repeating what one of the Austrian organizers later wrote about one Dr. Andreas Bichlbauer, a k a Andy Bichlbaum: ''The essential thrust of his speech appeared to be that Italians have a lesser work ethic than the Dutch, that Americans would be better off auctioning their votes in the presidential election to the highest bidder and that the primary role of the W.T.O. was to create a one-world culture.'')
 The Salzburg stunt was reported in the press, including The New York Times, and prompted a response from the World Trade Organization that essentially boiled down to a representative's stating that the world body ''deplored'' the Yes Men. (In a magazine interview, Mr. Bichlbaum later responded that the Yes Men ''deplored'' the W.T.O. right back.) Happily for activists and for the documentary, the news seems never to have reached Finland.
 And so, Mr. Bichlbaum and Mr. Bonanno, armed with that shiny bodysuit and with a camera crew in tow, traveled to Finland to unleash their mischief. They may not have been mischievous enough. Remarkably, the conference attendees looked surprisingly unruffled by Mr. Bichlbaum's outre getup (including his three-foot ''Employee Visualization Appendage,'' with camera attached at the end) or his outlandishly funny take on slavery and the advantages of ''involuntary'' labor.
 Maybe Finnish executives are super-polite, the ultimate yes men and women. Or maybe the authentic World Trade Organization is so surreal that nobody notices when it's lampooned. If you're not up on multinational trade it is hard to know what to believe, because no one in ''The Yes Men'' really explains what's wrong with the trade body; it's simply a given that, like globalization, it stinks. That may be indeed the case, but it's too bad the filmmakers didn't work harder and assume less. During another intervention, one of the Yes Men announces that the World Trade Organization has decided to disband. The organization, he says, will ''eventually reintegrate as a new trade body whose charter will be to ensure that trade benefits the poor.'' For some, the irony here will be rich; for free-trade absolutists, though, it will probably just sound like W.T.O. business as usual.
 ''The Yes Men'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It contains some adult language and raucous humor.

THE YES MEN

Directed by Chris Smith, Dan Ollman and Sarah Price; edited by Mr. Ollman; produced by Mr. Smith and Ms. Price; released by United Artists. At the Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, 139-143 East Houston Street, East Village. Running time: 83 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Andy Bichlbaum and Mike Bonanno.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy Bichlbaum, left, and Mike Bonanno, two Yes Men pranksters. (Photo by Dan Ollman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (85%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); ETHICS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); TRADE SHOWS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%) Manohla Dargis; Chris Smith; Andy Bichlbaum; Mike Bonanno; Dan Ollman; Sarah Price

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (51%) FINLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



509 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: United Provides an Idea Of Worker Pension Losses

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
In a bankruptcy court yesterday, United Airlines described how a possible pension termination would affect its tens of thousands of employees and retirees, in a filing that seemed intended to both prepare and reassure them about an impending default. 
 In what it called an informational brief, the airline said that it did not want to play down the ''profound implications'' of such a step. But at the same time, United asserted, the consequences ''may not be as dire for most plan participants as they might fear.''
 United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, went on to describe how much various workers' benefits might be reduced as a result of the termination. The reductions are the result of limits on the government's pension-insurance coverage. The rules of the federal program are extremely complex, and United cautioned that its estimates were preliminary and subject to revision. 
 United also said it was committed to setting up replacement plans if it did ultimately terminate the existing plan. But the airline offered few details about what such plans would look like. 
 In general, the government frowns on company's defaulting on their ailing pension plans, and then, once freed from the burdens, setting up new pension plans. Any new retirement plan that United might offer would be carefully scrutinized by federal regulators. 
 Even for a company in distress, as United is, terminating an underfunded pension plan is a drastic and unusual step that can be taken only with the approval of a bankruptcy court.
 Congress made so-called distress terminations difficult in order to keep companies from abusing the federal pension-insurance program by dumping unwanted pension obligations onto the government. 
 United's steps toward a pension termination are being closely watched, not only by the airline's own employees and retirees, but by workers at other airlines and other sectors of the economy, who fear a similar fate may one day lie in store for them. 
 On reductions, United's 101-page brief confirmed the widely held expectation that its pilots' benefits were most at risk. Pilots earn larger pensions than any other group of workers, and larger than the maximum benefit insured by the government. 
 United said that just 44 percent of its active pilots could expect to receive their full benefits in case of a termination. The rest would suffer losses. On average, United said, its active pilots would lose about 39 percent of the value of their pensions upon retirement. Those already retired would fare better. 
 Flight attendants would lose much less. United's brief says that 99 percent of them would receive their entire earned benefits in a termination. 
 It cautioned, however, that they would get less if they retired early.
 A larger group of mechanics would experience reductions -- 38 percent, United said. But it said the reductions would be small in every case, with the average mechanic losing only 4 percent and ''no mechanic retiree experiencing more than a 20 percent reduction in benefits.''
 Salaried and management employees would have widely different outcomes depending on whether they were working or retired at the time of termination. Those still actively employed would receive only 51 percent of their pretermination benefits, United said. But retirees would be much less adversely affected, retaining 99 percent of their pensions, on average. 
 United also made calculations for its work force as a whole and predicted that current retirees would receive 90 percent of their benefits, on average. For current workers, the airline said, reductions ''would not be draconian and could be mitigated by retiring closer to age 65.''
 United also said it was ''firmly committed'' to supplementing the government's insurance with new retirement benefits. It did not describe the plan, but said it would try to make the benefits ''durable, affordable and competitive.'' It said it would work with its various unions on designing them.
 But United made clear that if it terminated its pension plan, it would not then try to recreate any kind of defined-benefits plan -- the type it now offers, which promised workers a predetermined benefit with a government guarantee. Instead, United said, it expected that subsequent retirement benefits would be in the form of 401(k) plans.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Retired United Airlines employees in Chicago last month. The airline, under bankruptcy protection, may seek to terminate its pension plans. (Photo by John Zich/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); APPROVALS (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Suits and Litigation; Bankruptcies; Fringe Benefits; Labor; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines ; Ual Corp

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



510 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: The Face of Iraqi Democracy

 BODY:
Iraq's appointed leader, Ayad Allawi, put on an impressive performance yesterday in Washington. Addressing Congress and then holding a joint news conference with President Bush, he thanked America in the name of the Iraqi people for overthrowing Saddam Hussein. Challenging the news reports that Americans get daily, Mr. Allawi claimed that security is improving, economic reconstruction is progressing and democratic institutions are taking root. It was everything the Bush re-election campaign could have asked for. Unfortunately, most of it was wrong. 
 Until Iraq holds free elections, Mr. Allawi cannot claim to speak for more than the narrow coalition of exile parties that maneuvered his appointment as interim prime minister. Increasingly well-organized and deadly attacks are directed against American troops, foreign relief workers and Iraqi security recruits. Sunni towns like Falluja and Mosul and Shiite areas, including much of Baghdad, are gripped by insurgencies that American military analysts believe are nowhere near being overcome. Oil pipelines are attacked regularly, electricity supplies remain erratic, and foul drinking water breeds disease. 
 With the United Nations expressing doubts over whether Iraq will be secure enough to hold elections by January, American commanders are planning to launch an all-out offensive shortly after the November presidential elections here. They hope to secure enough Iraqi territory to permit a presentably nationwide vote. Meanwhile, the main exile-rooted parties behind Mr. Allawi seem intent on suppressing all real political competition. 
 Mr. Allawi spent most of the past quarter-century in exile. He got his start in politics as an enforcer for Saddam Hussein, but broke with the Baathists and was nearly murdered by Mr. Hussein's agents. He built a political base around a core of disaffected ex-Baathist officers -- and gained the backing of the Central Intelligence Agency, which supported him during the last decade or so of Mr. Hussein's rule. Since he was appointed interim prime minister in June, Mr. Allawi has not tried very hard to remake himself as a democrat. He has armed himself with the power to declare martial law and reinstated the death penalty, and he closed the Baghdad offices of Al Jazeera when it refused to adjust its editorial policies to his liking. His main appeal to Iraqis rests on the notion that he may be the only politician ruthless enough to hold the fragmenting country together. 
 The image Mr. Allawi was working hard to cultivate yesterday in Washington was very different. He wants to be seen as the firm but low-key leader of an emergent Iraqi democracy. He was occasionally compelling, but ultimately unconvincing, with contradictory messages that things are going well and that airing any evidence that things are not going well provides aid and comfort to terrorists. It's disturbing to see someone who presents himself as the future leader of a democracy begin by expressing doubts about the value of a free press and refusing to accept the importance of an honest and realistic discussion of what's happening in his country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (67%) Editorials; News and News Media; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



511 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Accuses President Of Misleading U.S. on Iraq

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Bangor, Me., for this article.

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
Stepping up his efforts to put President Bush on the defensive over Iraq, Senator John Kerry said on Thursday that conditions there were so bad there that the elections planned for January were in jeopardy and that the president's assertions that things were improving did not match reality.
 Speaking just after Prime Minister Ayad Allawi of Iraq said at a joint session of Congress that the elections would go ahead on schedule, and just before Mr. Bush told a news conference that Iraq had made ''steady progress,'' Mr. Kerry suggested that the president was misleading the American people and stubbornly unwilling to change course. 
 ''The prime minister and the president are here obviously to put their best face on the policy,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''But the fact is that C.I.A. estimates, the reporting, the ground operations and the troops all tell a different story.''
 Mr. Kerry said he would do a better job of training Iraqis to provide security and rallying other nations to help. Mr. Bush's obstinacy in the face of mounting violence, he said, was endangering American troops and dimming the prospects for the Iraqis to establish a democratic government.
 ''I want democracy to take hold,'' Mr. Kerry said. But at the moment, he added, ''I think most people would tell you that the United States and the Iraqis have retreated from whole areas of Iraq. There are 'no go' zones in Iraq today. You can't hold an election in a 'no go' zone.''
 In his brief address here and in a question-and-answer session with reporters afterward, Mr. Kerry intensified his weeklong effort to shift the focus of the race from whether it was right to invade Iraq, a subject the White House has used to pillory him as inconsistent and unprincipled, to Mr. Bush's management of the war, a topic the Kerry campaign said would work to its advantage.
 ''These are miscalculations which are costing lives, costing America's reputation in the world,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''These are miscalculations of judgment. And that's what we hire a president for, is to exercise the right judgment. I think this president has exercised the wrong judgment from Day 1, and that's why we need a change.''
 Referring to Mr. Bush's two-day visit this week to the United Nations, which he also used to meet with the leaders of Japan, India and Pakistan, Mr. Kerry said the president had missed another opportunity to build international support for the United States in Iraq.
 ''The president skedaddled out of New York so quickly, he barely had time to talk to any leaders,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''We need a summit. We need to bring people to the table. We need to behave like we are at war and respect the lives of our soldiers that are being lost because we are at war. They deserve better leadership. They deserve a mission with a plan that can succeed.''
 The White House quickly hit back. In a speech Thursday in St. Joseph's, Mo., Vice President Dick Cheney said he was appalled at what he called Mr. Kerry's lack of respect for Mr. Allawi and suggested that Mr. Kerry was defeatist.
 ''John Kerry is trying to tear down all the good that has been accomplished,'' Mr. Cheney said, ''and his words are destructive to our effort in Iraq and in the global war on terror.'' 
 After careering from one strategy and one message to another for months, Mr. Kerry's campaign appears to have settled on taking the political battle directly to what the White House has viewed as Mr. Bush's greatest strength, his standing as commander in chief. Late on Thursday, the Kerry campaign released a new television commercial suggesting that only by electing a new president with a new approach will the United States be able to stabilize Iraq and move closer toward bringing the troops home. 
 ''Terrorists are pouring into the country,'' the commercial's narrator says of Iraq. ''Attacks on U.S. forces are increasing every month. A thousand American soldiers have died. We need a fresh start to fix the mess in Iraq.''
 His aides said Mr. Kerry intended to follow up on Friday with a speech in Philadelphia in which he would draw a distinction between Iraq and the battle against Islamic terrorism. Mr. Kerry's focus on Iraq was particularly striking on Thursday, which he started in Ohio, a crucial swing state in which job losses have made the economy a potent weapon for him against Mr. Bush. But in his lone public appearance of the day, at a firehouse here where he was accompanied by John Glenn, the former astronaut and senator, Mr. Kerry did not utter a single word about domestic issues. (In fact, Mr. Kerry uttered relatively few words about anything because of the lingering effects of a cold that left him hoarse on Wednesday and still raspy on Thursday. He canceled campaign appearances in Iowa.)
 Mr. Kerry's advisers said he was emphasizing Iraq and terrorism to reframe the way the two sides are fighting over foreign policy heading into the first presidential debate next Thursday. The first debate's subject is foreign policy.
 They said Mr. Kerry would return to domestic issues, but would do so using the same framework he is applying to Mr. Bush's handling of Iraq.
 ''Drawing these sharp contrasts with Bush on Iraq is very important because this is a fundamentally important issue,'' said Michael D. McCurry, the former press secretary to President Bill Clinton who is now advising Mr. Kerry. ''But the larger argument we're making here is that if you don't see the mistakes in policy and acknowledge them, you can't fix them. The country's not going to get any better if you can't wake up and see the error of your ways. And that is a pattern with George Bush.''
 Just a few hours after his Rose Garden news conference, Mr. Bush stepped up his attack on Mr. Kerry in a campaign event at the airport in Bangor, Me. It was critical, Mr. Bush said, ''not to wilt or waver or send mixed messages to the enemy.''
 As Mr. Bush spoke, his communications director, Dan Bartlett, said that Mr. Kerry's efforts to articulate a position on Iraq would not stand up to scrutiny, and that the Kerry campaign was on the defensive. 
 ''The line of scrimmage is that we're now on Kerry's 35'' yard line, Mr. Bartlett said. ''We are clearly playing on their turf.''
 He said that as a result, ''we will spend much time in Iowa, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin,'' lumping New Hampshire in with states that Al Gore won in 2000 and that Mr. Kerry needs to hold on to.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry yesterday in Philadelphia with the boxing champion Bernard Hopkins. President Bush was with supporters in Bangor, Me. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephen Jaffe/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Bernard Hopkins; Ayad (Prime Min) Allawi; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



512 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: As Bull Market Nears a Birthday, Few Seem Ready to Celebrate

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
TWO years ago, gloom hung over stock markets around the world. The bear markets that began after the technology bubble burst in 2000 had grown worse after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The American stock market suffered its deepest plunge -- 49 percent from top to bottom -- since the Great Depression.
 But all that ended with a bang. Markets in most countries hit bottom on Oct. 9, 2002, and rallied sharply. A spring retrenchment sent some to new lows, but they then came roaring back. Now stocks around the world are generally trading for at least 40 percent more than they fetched at the 2002 lows. This week both the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Asian Development Bank released optimistic forecasts. 
 But with the second anniversary approaching, few seem ready to celebrate. The bull has been limping this year, with markets trading in narrow ranges after hitting highs in the spring. There is a sense, in Europe and America, that the world is out of control, with jobs moving away and governments unable to solve real problems.
 Unfortunately, stock market history indicates big gains may not be on the immediate horizon. The third years of bull markets are seldom a lot of fun, as Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, notes. This is the 10th bull market since the end of World War II, using the definition that a bull market requires a 20 percent gain and continues until a decline of at least 20 percent begins, and in only two of the previous nine has the third year posted a gain of more than 10 percent. The average is a rise of less than 1 percent, and three bulls died in their third year.
 This bull market began with a surge that surprised a lot of pessimists, but over all it has been a bit subpar. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 33.7 percent in its first year, three percentage points below average, and 6.7 percent so far in its second, about half the average. 
 Then there is the presidential election cycle. Much Wall Street commentary assumes that the stock market will do better if President Bush gets a second term and worse if he is defeated, in part because of concerns that Senator John Kerry might roll back some tax cuts that have been particularly beneficial to investors.
 But history shows that since 1945, the stock market has risen in the first year of six of seven Democratic terms and fallen in the first year of six of the eight Republican ones. On average, Democrats produce gains of 14.3 percent in the S.&P. 500 while Republicans show losses of 2.4 percent. In no other year of presidential terms is there such a difference between the parties. 
 That could be coincidence, of course, but there are explanations that make sense. Democrats, who are almost always viewed with suspicion by Wall Street as they enter office, may be eager to stimulate the economy immediately. Republicans may be more willing to take recessions early in their terms, particularly if they are succeeding a Democrat. They can blame the predecessor for the downturn, as the Bush campaign has done this year, and hope that a good recovery will be under way before the next election.
 A recession started in the first year of office of every Republican president who replaced a Democrat since World War II -- Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush. By contrast, the last Democrat to have that happen after replacing a Republican was Woodrow Wilson in 1913.
 This year's election may yet turn on Iraq. But so far as the economy goes, President Bush has sought to follow in the footsteps of three presidents under whom recessions turned to recoveries in time to win second terms with ease. The tepid stock market this year illustrates how little enthusiasm this recovery is producing as the election nears.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a chart with the Floyd Norris column in Business Day yesterday, showing the average yearly change in the S.&P. 500 since 1945 during each of the four years in a presidential term, omitted bars showing the percentages. A corrected version appears today, on Page C3.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the average change in the S.& P. 500 since 1945, by year of presidential term. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); TERRORISM (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BONDS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JOHN KERRY (77%) Floyd Norris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



513 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Summoning History as a Weapon Against the Iraq War

BYLINE: By CHARLES A. KUPCHAN. 
Charles A. Kupchan, professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of ''The End of the American Era: U.S. Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the 21st Century.''

 BODY:

WAR AND THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY
By Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
160 pages. Norton. $23.95.

THE FOLLY OF EMPIRE
What George W. Bush Could Learn From Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson
By John B. Judis
245 pages. Scribner. $24.
 With the presidential election approaching, American bookstores are fully stocked with harsh assessments of the Bush administration's foreign policy. The historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. and John B. Judis, a senior editor of The New Republic, have now contributed to the mix, offering books distinguished from the rest by their astute use of American history to illuminate the shortcomings in Washington's approach to global politics.
 Mr. Schlesinger's ''War and the American Presidency'' is a collection of historical reflections that deftly challenge the political and ideological foundations of President Bush's foreign policy. Mr. Schlesinger begins by tracing the roots of the administration's go-it-alone tendencies, noting that ''through most of its history, America has been stubbornly unilateralist in foreign relations.'' It took World War II and Franklin D. Roosevelt's tireless public diplomacy to persuade Americans to embrace allies and a centrist brand of international leadership, a new course that outlasted the cold war -- but not the Bush administration.
 ''Let no one doubt the political potency of the unilateralist resuscitation,'' Mr. Schlesinger asserts, strengthened as it is by the military primacy of the United States and the urge to strike preventively that has been prompted by 9/11. ''Military might is no substitute for friends and allies,'' he warns, ''nor is it a substitute for wisdom. It is a stimulus to vainglory -- and vainglory is self-defeating, as we Americans are learning the hard way,'' the country now ''eyeless in Iraq'' and saddled with ''a ghastly mess.''
 The politics of war and patriotism, Mr. Schlesinger contends, has vested the executive branch with more political power than intended by the founding fathers, not for the first time creating an ''imperial presidency'' insufficiently constrained by constitutional checks and balances. Attorney General John Ashcroft, armed with the Patriot Act, has overstepped his bounds, Mr. Schlesinger argues, imperiling civil liberties in a manner reminiscent of the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, the Sedition Act of 1918 and the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. In each of these cases, Mr. Schlesinger chides, ''we hate ourselves in the morning.''
 Mr. Schlesinger goes on to charge the Bush administration with exploiting the politics of fear and stifling wartime dissent by labeling it unpatriotic. Its success in doing so meant that ''no national debate preceded the Iraq war of a quality and seriousness that preceded most wars in American history.'' With its power unfettered both abroad and at home, Mr. Bush's imperial presidency has been free to pursue an imperial foreign policy.
 American history informs Mr. Schlesinger's indictment of the Bush administration, but it also instills his confidence in democracy's ''capacity for self-correction.'' Mr. Schlesinger predicts that the reckless adventurism will not last, noting that ''Americans are simply not competent imperialists, as demonstrated in Iraq in 2004.'' The country's ''own humane, pluralistic and tolerant ideals'' will ultimately undermine its imperial aspirations. In three concluding essays, Mr. Schlesinger dwells on the need to reinvigorate these ideals, again drawing on the lessons of history to caution against complacency and stress the importance of renewing America's democratic institutions and spirit.
 In ''The Folly of Empire,'' Mr. Judis explores the Bush administration's imperial impulse, drawing links to America's founding era and the country's self-perception as a ''city on the hill'' that would be an exemplar of liberal democracy for the world. During the 19th century the imperial urge accompanying this millennial vision made itself felt largely in North America, helping fuel westward expansion and the Indian wars. Beyond America's own hemisphere, the founding fathers and their immediate successors were adamant that the United States avoid entangling commitments.
 By the end of the 19th century, the country's growing economic and military might tempted its leaders with overseas empire, an offer taken up by President William McKinley in 1898. After successfully ousting Spanish forces from Cuba, the United States went on to colonize the Philippines and a host of other islands. Stoking the war fever and helping to lay the ideological foundations for empire was Theodore Roosevelt, McKinley's assistant secretary of the Navy and his successor as president. Roosevelt's belief in the racial supremacy of Anglo-Saxons, the importance of martial spirit and the country's civilizing mission abroad contributed to a new and muscular brand of American nationalism.
 The imperial fervor was short-lived. An insurgency in the Philippines made the United States occupation far more costly than expected. By his second term Roosevelt had come to see the Philippines as ''our heel of Achilles,'' and his enthusiasm for empire had given way to a more moderate and multilateralist brand of internationalism of the sort later championed by Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt.
 After his compelling account of the country's first flirtation with empire, Mr. Judis directs his fire at the Bush administration, persuasively arguing that it has revived the errant imperialism of the late 19th century. After the relatively easy victory in Afghanistan, he writes, President Bush and his advisers ''experienced the same rush of national power and the same illusion of omnipotence that the McKinley administration had experienced after the 'splendid little war' against Spain.'' Again misled, he says, by the naive assumption that the country's millennial mission could be achieved through force and occupation -- and backed by erroneous assessments of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction and his links to Al Qaeda -- Washington guided the country into a colonial quagmire in Iraq, alienating allies and stirring up widespread anti-American sentiment. ''When America goes out alone in search of monsters to destroy,'' Mr. Judis warns, ''it can itself become the monster.''
 ''War and the American Presidency'' and ''The Folly of Empire'' both have a hurried feel to them, containing analysis that is at times cursory and claims that go unsubstantiated. Presumably, their authors were rushing to ensure publication before the November election. Nonetheless both volumes constitute valuable appraisals of the Bush presidency, bringing to bear the weight of United States history to make a convincing case that the administration has led the country woefully off course.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. (Photo by Kathy Willens/Associated Press)
 John B. Judis (Photo by Chad Evans Wyatt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HISTORY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); POLITICS (89%); COLD WAR (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); LITERATURE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (52%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Charles a Kupchan; Arthur M Jr Schlesinger; George W (Pres) Bush; Theodore (1858-1919) Roosevelt; Woodrow (1856-1924) Wilson; John B Judis

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



514 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BIOGRAPHY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3329 words

HEADLINE: Echoes of a 1972 Loss Haunt a 2004 Campaign

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
It was the campaign that seemed to have everything. A rented mainframe computer and a sophisticated telephone voter list when typewriters and index cards were still common. A legion of eager volunteers, including a bike-riding boarding school student named Caroline Kennedy. Plenty of cash, celebrity supporters and a compelling first-time candidate: John Kerry.
 But in the end, the 1972 Democratic campaign for Congress in the Fifth District of Massachusetts, stretching from the gritty old mill towns of Lawrence and Lowell to the upscale suburbs of Lexington and Concord, lacked one big thing: voters. Mr. Kerry lost to his Republican opponent in a district George McGovern carried, after a bitter battle in which his antiwar protests were attacked, his patriotism was questioned and he himself was derided as an elitist careerist. His political future seemed shattered before it began.
 Months later, a sympathetic profile in The Worcester Telegram summed up Mr. Kerry's predicament on a day he had been doing errands, ran out of gas, then headed to the car wash. ''All of a sudden, water started washing over my shoes!'' Mr. Kerry explained in the article. ''The car was filling up with water! Water was coming out of every orifice! I could see the headlines: 'John Kerry, Former Congressional Candidate, Drowned in Car Wash.''' 
 The article continued: ''Obviously, John Kerry is a loser. Only losers have days like this.'' And Mr. Kerry himself offered a terse assessment: ''How did I feel when I lost? Lousy. I guess you learn from it. I'm not sure just what yet.''
 Thirty-two years later, Mr. Kerry is once again surrounded by many of the loyalists from that first campaign -- the only one he has ever lost. He is once again on the defensive over his Vietnam War service and his antiwar record, once again facing a Republican opponent who mocks him as an out-of-touch elitist, once again fighting to fulfill his campaign's early promise.
 So what are the lessons Mr. Kerry learned so long ago? To hit back hard when attacked? To bide his time and ration the early passion that made him such an outspoken opponent of the Vietnam War and such an eloquent, appealing candidate, but also a target of criticism? Perhaps a bit of both. From that election to this, his career has been marked more by cautious calculation than bold strokes, and to a striking degree, his vulnerabilities then remain his vulnerabilities now.
 Mr. Kerry's supporters acknowledge the parallels between 1972 and 2004. But they also insist that he long ago learned the lessons of that searing defeat -- lessons that sent him on a slow, patient detour to law school and work as a prosecutor and private lawyer, before his return to politics and his election as lieutenant governor of Massachusetts in 1982 and senator two years later.
 ''I think it helped John enormously that he did not get elected,'' said Thomas Vallely, a fellow Vietnam veteran who worked for Mr. Kerry then and is working for him now. ''If he'd gone from Congress, from being a star, right to some higher job, he wouldn't have had the political skills he acquired going to law school, becoming a prosecutor, running for lieutenant governor and Senate,'' all in campaigns that seemed to involve what Mr. Vallely called ''near-death experiences.''
 ''Did he learn in Lowell, always fight back?'' Mr. Vallely asked. ''Yes, but John's always been a pretty good fighter.'' And, he added, ''Kerry's cooler now. He's cooler. I mean, he's less -- he's more skilled. He's not nervous.'' 
 Dan Payne, another aide in that first race, said that Mr. Kerry had developed ''a kind of toughness that allows him to take hits,'' and that he was ''willing to go through these very difficult plunges in his fortunes.''
 Mr. Kerry does not have 10 weeks left until Election Day, much less 10 months or 10 years to cross the finish line. So an examination of the 1972 race, and his reaction to it, offers fresh insights into the tasks he faces now, and his ability to accomplish them.
 ''I took a shellacking,'' he said in an interview this summer, before stopping to correct himself. ''A shellacking's the wrong word. I took a shellacking in the sense that I couldn't make it happen. But I didn't take a shellacking, because we accomplished a hell of a lot -- young kids, 26, 27 years old, putting this thing together without any political expertise.'' And, he added, ''sadly, not being quite aware of what was happening to us in the final weeks. If I knew then what I know about things today, I'm not sure I would have ever done it.''

Wowing the Crowd
 Mr. Kerry had first considered a race for Congress two years earlier, just after he was released from active duty in the Navy in the winter of 1970. The district he eyed was the Third, stretching across the western suburbs of Boston from Fitchburg to Newton. But by the time he decided to explore challenging the hawkish Democratic incumbent, Philip J. Philbin, there was already a clear front-runner: the Rev. Robert F. Drinan, the Jesuit dean of Boston College Law School, who had become a prominent opponent of the war.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Kerry made a speech at a caucus of party liberals intended to choose the consensus candidate to take on the incumbent. ''He really wowed the crowd,'' recalled Mr. Payne, who was Father Drinan's campaign press secretary and later worked on several of Mr. Kerry's own campaigns. 
 In the end, however, ''my people had the votes,'' Father Drinan said in an interview. Mr. Kerry went on to support Father Drinan's successful campaign. Later that spring, he married Julia Stimson Thorne in a big Long Island ceremony. The bride wore a gown from a relative's 1786 wedding, at which Alexander Hamilton had been best man and George Washington a guest, and The New York Times's lengthy account declared, ''Whether today's wedding becomes a similar footnote to history may depend on the bridegroom.'' 
 Over the next year and a half, Mr. Kerry became a more or less full-time antiwar activist. He served as principal fund-raiser and public spokesman for Vietnam Veterans Against the War, a grass-roots group that divided its efforts between dramatic street demonstrations and, eventually, civil disobedience and Mr. Kerry's more traditional, establishment oratory and approach.
 He appeared more than once on ''The Dick Cavett Show.'' In April 1971 he helped organize the mass veterans' protest march on Washington in which he and others threw their military decorations over a fence outside the Capitol, and he became celebrated overnight for asking the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, ''How do you ask a man to be the last man to die in Vietnam? How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake?''
 But as 1971 wore on, Mr. Kerry, who had been raising most of the group's money from celebrities like Jane Fonda and others, grew increasingly wary of the organization's more radical elements, and disillusioned with its anarchic nature. ''I began to sense there were some folks out there on their own doing their stuff and calling it V.V.A.W.,'' he said this summer. ''I just said, 'It's not my cup of tea.' And the agenda began to expand beyond antiwar to different this, social that, whatever. It just lost its way.''
 Mr. Kerry said he decided that politics, not protesting, would give him ''greater strength and the ability to make something happen.''
 What he wanted was to end the war as quickly as possible, and he decided to run for Congress on an antiwar platform in 1972. 
 But to do so, he would have to move. He was living in Waltham, represented by Father Drinan. So the Kerrys bought a house in Worcester, hometown of the Fourth District's aging incumbent, Harold D. Donohue. But before they even moved in, the moderate Republican incumbent in the neighboring Democratic-majority Fifth District, Bradford Morse, announced his retirement to accept a United Nations post, leaving that seat open. Mr. Kerry, not yet 29, leapt.
 Mr. Kerry's parents had lived in the Fifth District during his years at Yale and in Vietnam, but his sudden switch left him open to charges of opportunism, which have dogged him ever since. ''If he doesn't stop House hunting soon,'' The Boston Herald Traveler wrote, ''he'll not only need a campaign manager but a full-time real estate agent.''
 Because Morse had represented the district for so long, a crowded field of Democrats was eager to compete for his seat. None welcomed Mr. Kerry, who had support from celebrities, cash from New York, a core of young volunteers like Ms. Kennedy and the support of big-name national Democrats, who cut no ice in the working-class bars of Lowell.
 ''I remember McGovern coming up to Lowell and talking about John Kerry, not realizing it was a nine-person primary, and not realizing that that alienated people,'' said Martin T. Meehan, who was then a sophomore in high school working for one of Mr. Kerry's primary opponents and now represents the district in the House. 
 In the rented house in Lowell that Mr. Kerry used as an early staging area, he displayed color photographs of himself sailing with John F. Kennedy in the one place they were certain to be seen by visiting volunteers and workers: the bathroom.
 Father Drinan summed up the situation: ''Every Democrat in Lowell and Lawrence has been lusting for this seat for 25 years. Kerry comes along and wipes them out. There's real hatred there.''
 Mr. Vallely, who had started in politics as Father Drinan's driver in the 1970 campaign and later went to work for Mr. Kerry, offered a contemporary example to illustrate the upstart campaign's sense of itself.
 ''It was like the Dean campaign,'' he said. ''It had enormous energy. We had thousands of volunteers. We had a computer, which we rented. It was a mainframe. We thought we were at the cutting edge of technology and American politics would never be the same again.''

An Embarrassing Episode
 That computer was at the center of one of the campaign's most embarrassing episodes. On the eve of the primary, Mr. Vallely and Mr. Kerry's younger brother, Cameron, both 22, had gone out to dinner and returned to their headquarters to learn that an anonymous caller had telephoned to report that the campaign's phone lines were being cut.
 ''Our Internet was the telephone,'' Mr. Vallely said. ''A couple hundred lines and all related to our voter ID, and how we're mailing to them. This was the central organizing tool that we're using.'' So Mr. Vallely and Cam Kerry kicked down the door to the building's basement and hurried downstairs, only to find themselves surrounded moments later by the Lowell police and charged with breaking and entering.
 The same building also housed the headquarters of one of Mr. Kerry's Democratic rivals, State Representative Anthony R. DiFruscia of Lawrence, and he accused the Kerry campaign of a Watergate-style break-in. Mr. Vallely and both Kerrys maintain that the incident was a setup intended to embarrass them. 
 Still, the next day Mr. Kerry carried 18 of the district's 22 towns, with 28 percent of the vote. The Republicans nominated Paul W. Cronin, a former state representative and one-time aide to Morse. A poll conducted about two weeks later by The Boston Globe showed Mr. Kerry leading 51 to 24 percent, with 7 percent for an independent candidate, Roger P. Durkin, a conservative Democrat.
 The general election would be a different story. Paul J. Sheehy, a state representative from Lowell who came in second to Mr. Kerry in the primary, never believed Mr. Kerry could win in November. ''Let me just tell you one thing,'' he said in a recent interview. ''The whole theme of our advertising was 'Vote for the Democrat Who Can Win.''' To Mr. Sheehy, a young, liberal, antiwar candidate was not a good fit with a district dominated by Lawrence and Lowell, which had a special term of derision for a newcomer: ''blow-in.'' He did not endorse Mr. Kerry in the general election.
 ''I don't think he reached out to anybody, to people who were active in the Democratic Party, who could provide any support to him,'' Mr. Sheehy said. ''I think it was naivete, and he believed his press clippings, perhaps, and didn't really understand the makeup of the district.''
 Mr. Kerry also faced the wrath of the ultraconservative editor of The Lowell Sun, Clement C. Costello, who would later urge the United States to annex Canada and invade Mexico in answer to the 1970's oil crisis. In October 1972, Mr. Kerry was the main target of Mr. Costello, who ran a smoldering series of four editorials denouncing the young candidate. Each was accompanied by an anti-Kerry cartoon, with the climax, called ''The Rape of the Fifth,'' showing a gloating Mr. Kerry standing atop the prone body of a woman representing the district.
 ''Mr. Kerry is more interested in what the Fifth can give him, namely a seat in Congress, than what he can give the Fifth,'' one editorial read in part. ''He wants the national sounding board from which he can disseminate the radical ideas contained in his 'books and lectures,' and the welfare of the Fifth District and its people is secondary.''
 One of the books the Sun editorials attacked was ''The New Soldier,'' a long essay on the antiwar veterans' movement by Mr. Kerry and his brother-in-law and Yale classmate David Thorne, with photographs by their friend George Butler. Its cover showed bearded veterans holding an American flag upside down, in a sign of distress. The Sun saw it as a sign of deep disrespect.
 Mr. Kerry, seared by his combat experience in the Mekong Delta and embittered by the death of close friends in the war, had made Vietnam the centerpiece of his campaign. He found it hard to display similarly persuasive passion for the bread-and-butter economic issues that were of greater concern to many of the district's voters.
 ''It was a depressed area, Democratic area, unemployment high,'' recalled Edward F. Cox, the husband of Richard M. Nixon's daughter Tricia, who had recently been a part-time prosecutor in Lowell and who was sent by the Republicans to campaign against Kerry that fall. ''Kerry couldn't communicate with the basic blue-collar Democratic voter, even though they should have been inclined to be for him.''
 Mr. Kerry's antiwar activities had drawn intense scrutiny by top aides in the Nixon White House, and by the F.B.I. and the president himself, as Nixon tapes unearthed by The Boston Globe last year make clear. But Mr. Cox said he had not been part of a concerted White House effort to target Mr. Kerry. 
 ''If anything else was going on, I wasn't informed of that,'' he said in a recent telephone interview. ''This was just another stop.''
 The final blow came just three days before the election when Mr. Durkin, the independent candidate, dropped out and threw his support to the Republicans. Mr. Kerry lost by 18,123 votes out of 207,623 cast -- almost nine percentage points -- carrying only three towns.

The War Over the War
 Some contemporary observers contend that Mr. Kerry doomed himself from the start with his emphasis on Vietnam.
 Martin Linsky, then a 31-year-old state representative who was the Republican nominee against Father Drinan in the neighboring Third District, said Mr. Kerry's ''view of himself was inextricable from his role in opposition to Vietnam.''
 Mr. Linsky, now a lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, added in a recent e-mail message: ''Cronin and The Lowell Sun took Kerry's one great advantage, his celebrity status as an antiwar activist and his self-immersion in that role, and turned it into a liability in every possible way, pounding away: on the war itself, on the out-of-district funding for his campaign, on his relative unfamiliarity with the district and on Cronin's legacy from their beloved Brad Morse, who had delivered the goods. Because it all had the ring of some truth, and because Kerry was so understandably committed to the nobility of the view of himself as the righteous antiwar crusader, Kerry colluded in his demise by defending that image of himself and thus allowing Cronin, and The Sun, to set the agenda for what the campaign would be about, a conversation that Kerry could not win even if his defense was compelling.''
 ''That,'' Mr. Linsky added, ''sounds a lot like what happened between the two conventions this summer.'' 
 In the aftermath of defeat, Mr. Kerry retreated, building model ships and planes and contemplating his options. He took some time off, then got a job as a New England regional coordinator for an arm of CARE, the relief organization.
 ''That was a sad thing,'' Father Drinan recalled. ''Then he went to Boston College Law School after that. So we all said, 'Good, he's settled down.'''
 Ahead of Mr. Kerry lay patient years in the Middlesex County prosecutor's office, private law practice and an unlikely comeback as Michael S. Dukakis's lieutenant governor and a senator, both times against primary opponents who had broader support among Democratic regulars in the clannish world of Massachusetts politics, a world in which even today Mr. Kerry remains a conspicuous outsider.
 But those who have known him longest and best say the memory of 1972 is never far from Mr. Kerry's mind. In his 1984 Senate race, when his primary opponent, Representative James M. Shannon, a protege of Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill and the establishment's favorite, questioned his protesting the war in Vietnam after having served there, Mr. Kerry struck back hard.
 In a televised debate late in the campaign, Mr. Shannon accused Mr. Kerry of flip-flopping on Vietnam, saying, ''If you felt that strongly about the war, you would not have gone.'' In the next debate, Mr. Kerry attacked, insisting, ''You impugn the service of veterans in that war by saying they are somehow dopes or wrong for going.'' Mr. Shannon tried to dodge the exchange, saying, ''John, you know that dog won't hunt.''
 And so was born ''the Doghunters,'' a group of Vietnam veterans like Mr. Vallely who had known Mr. Kerry in the war or in his antiwar days or in his work with veterans. They helped turn the race around, and have been a part of every Kerry campaign since. At a similarly tough moment in Mr. Kerry's 1996 re-election race against Gov. William Weld, the crew of Mr. Kerry's Vietnam Swift boat also came to the rescue, and they remain active in his current campaign. 
 Now, in the wake of a month of harsh attacks on Mr. Kerry's character, military record and antiwar activity by the group called Swift Boat Veterans for Truth and the White House itself, Mr. Vallely, Mr. Thorne and others from that first campaign are working to help Mr. Kerry make his case once more after newer advisers initially urged him to avoid getting drawn into the fray. Polls show that the attacks apparently succeeded in raising doubts about Mr. Kerry, and undermining his campaign's central biographical rationale, just when many voters were first tuning in to the race. Some old colleagues worry that irreparable damage has already been done.
 ''There are a lot of people who have stayed with John in every campaign since '72, who learned a difficult lesson,'' said Mr. Payne, another veteran of the first campaign who is now watching from the sidelines, having been replaced as Mr. Kerry's media adviser in the 1996 Senate campaign by Robert Shrum, who is playing the same role now. 
 ''You cannot assume because you are a war hero that you will not be attacked for your military service,'' Mr. Payne said. ''That's why I think this time it was so disconcerting that his campaign was telling him not to react to things that he had seen 30 years ago destroy him. There was no reason to assume that people who are now involved with John Kerry in leadership positions would know anything about that campaign.''
 But Mr. Kerry does.

John Kerry's Journey
 This article is the third in a biographical series on Senator John Kerry. The first two articles, on Mr. Kerry's years through the Vietnam War, are at nytimes.com/campaign.


GRAPHIC: Photos: When John Kerry ran for Congress in 1972, his campaign headquarters in Lowell, Mass., were in the same building as those of one of his Democratic rivals, Anthony R. DiFruscia. (Photo by The Boston Globe)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VIETNAM WAR (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); LAWYERS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Biographical Information; Vietnam War; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Swift Boat Veterans for Truth (Orgn)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) Todd S Purdum; John (Sen) Kerry; dan payne

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



515 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: We Have Met The News, And It Is Us

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
THANK goodness for the uproar over Dan Rather and his ill-starred ''60 Minutes'' report. Finally, attention has shifted from distractions like the war and the economy to where it should be in a presidential election: on us in the news media.
 What could be more thrilling for voters than to watch newspeople talking endlessly about themselves, speculating about information sources, challenging one another's professionalism and impugning the other guys' integrity (the sneer raised almost to an art form by those tilting rightward)?
 ''We have to remember that we in the media think everything is about us,'' said Geneva Overholser, a news business veteran who teaches at the University of Missouri School of Journalism. Face it, she said, ''we are fascinated with ourselves.'' The same thought came from Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism, based in Washington. ''Journalists,'' he said, ''are fascinated with themselves.'' 
 Hang on. Can both these respected people possibly be implying that we in the news game are too self-infatuated? Is Ms. Overholser suggesting that everything in life isn't about us?
 How can that be, especially in New York, home to so many news organizations and thus the navel-gazing capital of the world?
 You remember what happened when the fighting in Iraq started 18 months ago. Sure, the war was interesting enough, if you care about that sort of thing. But what really got the juices flowing in this self-absorbed town were the debates over whether Peter Arnett, formerly of CNN, was a quisling and whether Geraldo Rivera of Fox News had put American lives in jeopardy by revealing troop positions.
 Who is not fascinated by such bloviating, and even more so when it involves something like Mr. Rather's flawed CBS report on President Bush's service record? What could be more mesmerizing than a kerfuffle over who blundered on a news story whose essential outlines have been apparent for years?
 Breathes the person who did not know long ago that the young George W. Bush, though supporting the Vietnam War, did his best to avoid it? That someone somehow arranged for him to join the Texas Air National Guard? That he then hotfooted it to Alabama, to dabble in politics when he was supposed to be defending against a possible air attack by Mexico? (Actually, a friend notes, Mr. Bush did a splendid job. Mexico did not dare think about attacking.)
 Given how obvious it has long been that Mr. Bush ducked Vietnam duty, much as Dick Cheney ducked the Vietnam-era draft, you can't help but wonder why Mr. Rather and CBS even bothered chasing this nonblockbuster scoop. ''Now they're going to pay dearly for it,'' Mr. Rosenstiel said.
 Now, too, Ms. Overholser said, ''the story is about us. Part of that is the Bush administration's skill in feeding it. If the story is about us, then it's not about his National Guard service. And we in the media are willing lackeys because'' -- you got it -- ''we are fascinated with ourselves.''
 That we are. Best of all, there are many more of us around these days, many more navels ripe for the gazing.
 ONE reason is the Rise of the Bloggers. Sounds almost like the title of a horror movie. Some of them first called attention to problems with the ''60 Minutes'' report. ''We got a sense here of how much of a difference bloggers make,'' Ms. Overholser said.
 For the uninitiated, blog is short for Web log, a site on the Internet where one can become an instant publisher, filling the ether with musings and facts. They are similar to, yet different from, those of us who do much the same thing for newspapers but lack a modern cachet. ''Newspaper'' is so Gutenberg. Perhaps we should take a cue from the blogs, and join the 21st century by calling ourselves spapers.
 That way, all of us -- bloggers, spaperers and our television cousins -- can invigorate our mutual dissection, merrily convinced that the rest of the country finds us as entrancing as we ourselves do.
 Besides, Mr. Rosenstiel said, ''it's a lot easier to talk about Dan Rather than it is to go out and investigate someone's public record, or try to probe what the impact of their ideas would be if they actually enacted them, or to figure out what the effect of the two health care plans would be.''
 Even easier may be simply to flick on ''The Daily Show'' on the Comedy Channel. Its creators probably had no idea how close to the mark they would be when they jokingly dubbed it ''the most trusted name in fake news.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); WRITERS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%) Vietnam War; News and News Media; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Television

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Clyde Haberman; Dan Rather; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004



516 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

California Approves Plan To Cut Vehicle Emissions
California regulators approved a plan aimed at sharply reducing emissions of global warming gases from cars and trucks over the next 11 years.
 It would be the first such regulation in the nation and one that, if it survives legal challenges, would force automakers to significantly increase the fuel efficiency of millions of vehicles. [Page A1.]

Faith-Based Health Care Offered
The Bush administration has broken new ground in its faith-based initiative, this time by offering federal employees a Catholic health plan that excludes payment for contraceptives, abortion and sterilization. [A1.]

Oil Prices Trim Gains for Stocks
Blue-chip stocks ended barely higher as a spike in oil prices to near-record levels pared earlier gains and renewed concerns about the effect of high energy prices on consumer spending and corporate profits. [C4.]

Europe Is Said to Clear Oracle Deal
The European Union's competition commissioner, Mario Monti, is ready to allow Oracle to proceed with its $7.7 billion hostile takeover bid for PeopleSoft in the coming weeks, people close to the case said. [C2.]

Publisher of Maxim Dismisses 15
Dennis Publishing USA, which publishes the magazines Maxim and Stuff and the music magazine Blender, dismissed 15 executives and editors in an effort to cuts costs. [C4.]

Orders for Durable Goods Drop
Orders to factories for big-ticket goods dropped in August, weighed down by a decline in demand for commercial airplanes. [C4.]

Regulators Weigh Morningstar Suit
Securities regulators may file a suit against Morningstar over incorrect data it published about a mutual fund, the company said. [C3.]

Chip Sales Slide at Philips
Signaling a possible wider slowdown in the semiconductor industry, Royal Philips Electronics became the latest company to say that its chip sales had begun to stall, at least temporarily. Having once predicted a spike of up to 4 percent, Philips's semiconductor division said third-quarter sales in dollars would not exceed this year's second-quarter result of $1.72 billion. [C2.]

Companies May Bid for Yukos
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said that state-run companies might bid for assets of Yukos in any sale to collect back taxes, raising the prospect of further government control over the nation's oil and gas industry. [C2.]

Pressure to Succeed at HBO
Can HBO keep soaring? Despite its dominance at the recent Emmy awards, rival television executives say they are not so sure. [B11.]

Mining Company in Merger Talks
Noranda, Canada's largest mining company, said that it was in talks that might lead to its acquisition by the China Minmetals Corporation in a deal worth about $4.7 billion. [C2.]

A Judge Rules Against United
A federal bankruptcy court judge ruled against United Airlines in a procedural dispute with unions over employee pensions. [C2.]

Alitalia Plan to Split Progresses
Alitalia said eight of its nine biggest unions agreed to a plan to split the airline in two. [C2.]

Surgical Device No Longer Made
St. Jude Medical said it would stop making a device used during heart surgery. [C4.]

Chart: ''YESTERDAY''
Dow industrials -- 10,047.24 up 8.34
Nasdaq composite -- 1,879.48 down 6.95
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.03% up 0.01
The euro -- $1.2268 down 0.0460
The dollar -- 110.68 yen up 0.13

Graph tracks the daily closing price of Royal Phillips Electronics shares for the week.

Graph tracks the daily closing of the Dow Jones Industrials since January.

(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); LITIGATION (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); RELIGION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ELECTRONICS (74%); MERGERS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PUBLISHING (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); ABORTION (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); JUDGES (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); AIRLINES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHINA MINMETALS CORP (60%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (53%); OAO NK YUKOS (52%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (53%); PHIA (AMS) (53%); PHG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (60%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (87%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



517 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: CALIFORNIA BACKS PLAN FOR BIG CUT IN CAR EMISSIONS

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
California regulators approved a plan on Friday aimed at drastically reducing over the next 11 years the vehicle emissions of gases that scientists have linked to global warming. 
 It would be the first such regulation in the nation and one that, if it survives legal challenges, would force automakers to increase sharply the fuel efficiency of millions of vehicles.
 Though the plan is being put into place by only one state, automakers see it as the most challenging demand from government since Congress first imposed standards to improve fuel economy in the 1970's. California is by far the nation's largest auto market, accounting for a fifth of national sales.
 Industry officials said the plan would lead them to restrict sales of large sport utility vehicles and high- performance sports cars in the state. Regulators, including the state's staff of engineers, sharply disputed that and said the industry already had much of the technology to comply on the shelf or, in the case of gas-electric hybrid cars, on the road. 
 With seven other states in the East following California's lead on air quality regulations, the plan could potentially affect about 30 percent of the market. That would present automakers with tough choices about whether to build different vehicles for different markets or develop a unified nationwide strategy to meet the demands of California and the other states.
 A representative from New York reiterated on Thursday the state's support for California's measure.
 But the plan still faces an expected legal challenge on multiple fronts from automakers and could also be blocked by the Bush administration. For years, the industry has tied up previous state efforts to regulate air quality, but regulators say that they have learned from those battles and that they believe they will prevail in court. 
 Automakers, in sometimes combative testimony, strongly opposed the measure, saying it would be far more expensive than the state projected and that regulators are straying far beyond their traditional role of curbing local air pollution.
 The industry also dismissed as unproved the board staff's presentation of a broad overview of scientific evidence on the health effects of global warming. 
 The regulation would require the industry to cut roughly 30 percent of the carbon dioxide and other emissions scientists have linked to climate change trends. The standards would phase in from the 2009 to the 2016 model years, with each automaker's annual new car and truck offerings required to meet increasingly stringent limits.
 But the industry said critics sharply underestimated the costs of meeting the standard. The board's staff projected that the regulation would add about $1,000 to the initial cost of an average new vehicle but that gasoline savings over time would more than make up for that. The industry said it would cost an extra $3,000, much more than the potential fuel savings. 
 The board's staff gave some ground, but not much, modifying its cost savings projections to $2,142 from $2,691 -- fuel savings minus higher upfront costs.
 On Friday, after two days of hearing, the state Air Resources Board, which is appointed by the Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, voted 8 to 0 to approve the plan.
 ''California cannot solve this problem of global climate change by itself,'' said Alan C. Lloyd, chairman of the air board, ''but we can certainly do our share.''
 Thomas C. Austin, the industry's top research consultant on this regulation, said, ''It's the most challenging regulation that's ever been proposed by the California Air Resources Board, or even the E.P.A.'' 
 Even companies that have long been leaders in improving fuel efficiency raised questions about the plan. ''We don't know how to do it right now,'' said John German, Honda's manager of environment and energy analysis. ''It means using unknown, unproven technology.''
 The board, along with environmentalists, said the auto industry offered no alternatives, no cooperation and had a history of understating what it could do. 
 ''We have wanted to work with the auto companies, and we have got nothing coming back in return,'' Mr. Lloyd said during the hearing. 
 John DeCicco, an engineer and a senior fellow at Environmental Defense, said, ''Vehicles are not going to be different in ways that matter to consumers.'' 
 While other nations have moved to curb automotive emissions of global warming gases, previous domestic air quality regulations have for decades been focused on a different kind of emission, the smog-forming particles that have been particularly damaging in California.
 Those smog-forming emissions can be filtered with a catalytic converter.
 But no such filtration technology exists for global warming gases; automakers say that they would have to increase their average fuel economy in the state by 35 to 50 percent within 11 years to meet the standard, a pace not seen since the United States first started regulating fuel economy in the 1970's.
 For more than a decade, fuel economy gains have stalled as the price of gasoline moderated and consumers flocked to sport utility vehicles.
 The board's staff presented a broad overview of recent scientific research, which it said showed how the warming of the planet has already contributed to a variety of health problems.
 In California, rising temperatures would bring a variety of specific risks, the board staff said. Higher temperatures impede the state's battle with smog and can worsen forest fires. They also contribute to the early melting of mountain snow, which can lead to winter flooding and less water runoff for crop irrigation in the spring, threatening the state's $3.2 billion wine industry. 
 The board staff also said that rising sea levels, another symptom of the problem, threaten coastlines and could contaminate the state's supply of fresh water. 
 ''The patient here is the earth and its habitants,'' said an air board member, Dr. Henry Gong, the chief of environmental health service at the Rancho Los Amigos Medical Center. ''The treatment option is here before us today.''
 A top auto industry lobbyist brushed aside the presentation, calling the theory of global warming ''a big if.'' 
 The lobbyist, Fred Webber, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a lobbying group that includes Toyota, General Motors and all of the major international automakers except Nissan and Honda, said in a statement: ''Californians would see no health benefits under this regulation.''
 He added in an interview during a break at the hearing: ''I come from Maine and we had one of the coldest winters on record. It was very, very cold. A lot of people are scratching their beans about whether global warming is occurring. It's a question worth addressing, but on a global basis.''
 Several legal hurdles remain before the plan could take effect. Lawsuits are expected from the industry, which could sue in state court claiming the proposal does not meet mandated feasibility requirements. The industry could also sue in federal court, claiming that the plan is pre-empted by Washington's authority to regulate fuel economy. 
 The board has emphasized that the plan is aimed at global warming, not fuel economy directly, and environmentalists have pointed out that emissions can also be modestly reduced by making changes to a car's air-conditioning system.
 The Bush administration could also reject California's petition to regulate global warming emissions. California and several other states are already suing the E.P.A., which does not consider global warming gases to be pollutants. 
 Last year, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler dropped a lawsuit over California's zero-emission-vehicle mandate, a regulation that will require automakers to have 10 percent of their new vehicles meet a variety of stringent smog-forming emission targets. The industry and the state wrangled for years over the proposal, which was first put in place in 1990. 
 California has unique authority to regulate air pollution, because its air quality regulations predated the federal Clean Air Act.
 Other states have the option of following California's regulations over Washington's. This year, New Jersey, Rhode Islands and Connecticut have said they intend to start following California's car rules; New York, Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine already do.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Regulators say the auto industry already has much of the technology needed to comply with emission rules. (Photo by Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); SPORTS CARS (54%) Air Pollution; States (US); Automobiles; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Weather; Global Warming; Air Pollution

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Eastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



518 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: The Passion of a Stormy Prophet

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Franz Welser-Most evidently likes to take risks. In his two seasons since taking over as music director of the Cleveland Orchestra, he has opened and closed the subscription series with an outsize work.
 But this year the risks were greater as the season approached, bringing with it the distinct possibility of a strike. In fact, that possibility still looms. 
 The opening concert, an imposing performance of Mendelssohn's grand oratorio ''Elijah'' on Thursday night, went ahead only because the players and the management had agreed to extend the present contract until Oct. 31. What happens between now and the end of the season, with three performances of Beethoven's ''Missa Solemnis'' scheduled for May, is anyone's guess. 
 The Cleveland management, like that of most other major American orchestras, has responded to a dire economic climate by cutting costs and is now looking for monetary concessions from the players. But the picture is especially gloomy here because the city's swooning economy affords little margin for error.
 On Thursday, at least, impending doom was easy to forget amid the luxurious trappings of Severance Hall in all its renovated splendor, virtually dripping with Art Deco finery. And the performance, with the bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff in the title role, promised even greater rewards.
 The oratorio, a venerable musical form for chorus and orchestra, emerged from Victorian England, which heaped fusty new works atop elephantine performances of great old works, with a bad rap. But ''Elijah,'' for one, can sound urgent and compelling in the right hands, and Mr. Welser-Most grabbed attention with a fleet opening and held it with fast pacing that nevertheless allowed the performance to breathe.
 Asked in a preconcert discussion onstage why he had chosen the work for this occasion, Mr. Welser-Most said, ''There was a simple reason, and it has a name: Thomas Quasthoff.'' And indeed, Mr. Quasthoff is a natural choice for the role of the stormy prophet, or vice versa.
 Although one hesitates to engage in two-bit psychologizing, Mr. Quasthoff, physically deformed from birth, has shown a deep affinity for music that sears the soul, whether it evokes alienation in Schubert's song cycle ''Winterreise'' or martial bravado in Mahler's cycle ''Des Knaben Wunderhorn.'' And he brought both tremendous force and poignant consolation to a portrayal bathed in warmth and humanity.
 The choice of Mr. Quasthoff had other consequences, as Mr. Welser-Most also explained. Since Mr. Quasthoff sings the role only in German, that is how it was presented: thus, ''Elias.'' There is further justification for this practice, not uncommon in Europe, in that Mendelssohn wrote the work in German, though its premiere was given in English, in Birmingham, England, in 1846.
 Still, because the music addresses the words so plainly and eloquently, it was too bad that the audience here missed that direct connection. It was also too bad for the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus -- an amateur group, but a fine one -- which could surely have articulated the text better and more easily in English.
 The chorus is the other hero in ''Elijah,'' and the this chorus, 170 strong, was impressive in its corporate sound, whether in full-throated fortissimos or intense pianissimos, though individual lines betrayed much unevenness in vocal quality, hardly surprising in an amateur group. Its first sound packed a mighty wallop in a hall that also improved acoustically with that 2000 renovation.
 But the Cleveland Orchestra is not one to be upstaged, and its performance was all the more striking for its overall restraint and subtlety. This has long been one of the finest Mendelssohn orchestras anywhere (especially under Mr. Welser-Most's immediate predecessor, Christoph von Dohnanyi), able to skitter or sing like few others, and it can shout as needed without becoming raucous or strident.
 It was also a special pleasure to hear for the first time the big E.M. Skinner pipe organ, restored to its rightful place after the renovation. In its lower registers it is an instrument as much felt as heard, something no electronic instrument can match.
 Of the other vocalists, Susan Platts, a mezzo-soprano, was the most consistently satisfying, with a lush, dark tone. John Mark Ainsley, a tenor, made a strong start but seemed to weary in his final aria.
 ''Elijah,'' it seems safe to say, will be presented again on Saturday, and other Cleveland orchestra concerts will follow over the next month. Beyond that, even Elijah couldn't foresee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Franz Welser-Most leading Thomas Quasthoff and the Cleveland Orchestra in Mendelssohn's ''Elijah.'' (Photo by Roger Mastroianni/Cleveland Orchestra) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); STRIKES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Music; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (94%) Cleveland Orchestra

PERSON: James R Oestreich; Franz Welser-Most; Thomas Quasthoff

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (69%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); ENGLAND (86%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



519 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 36 words

 BODY:

DOLLAR ENDS FLAT. The dollar ended flat against the euro in volatile trading after falling to a one-month low, as dealers focused on durable goods orders. The dollar closed at $1.2268 yesterday from $1.2314 on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since April 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (86%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (85%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (83%) Currency; United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



520 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN FINANCE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: New Pet Cause for the Very Rich: Swaying the Election

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
For years, Susie Tompkins Buell, the multimillionaire co-founder of Esprit clothing, dipped into her personal fortune to support Democrats. She gave tens of thousands to candidates, and hundreds of thousands to the party.
 But this year, she added a zero to her check. After hearing a presentation from an advocacy group about its plans to topple President Bush, she agreed to donate far more than she had planned: $1 million.
 ''It was rather impulsive, but when you are passionate, that's what happens,'' Ms. Buell said. ''You listen to your gut and you go for it.'' 
 Ms. Buell is one of the new stars of political giving this election year. A new campaign finance law was written to curb the influence of big money in American politics, but wealthy partisan contributors, driven by ideology, have nonetheless emerged as a pre-eminent force in campaigns. Their contributions to so-called 527 advocacy groups have far outstripped corporate money as a primary source of financing for the most active of these groups in the presidential race.
 An examination of the nine most active 527 committees shows that they are overwhelmingly financed by individual donations. And many of the checks are huge. More than two dozen people have contributed $1 million or more to the 527 committees, according to PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks campaign finance. The money is helping to shift the mix of major donors away from the companies and labor unions that once provided hundreds of millions of dollars in unlimited soft money to the Republican and Democratic Parties.
 The change is rooted in the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law, passed in 2002, which banned corporations and unions from giving soft money contributions to the political parties, a time-tested practice that often provided access to lawmakers. Companies now have little incentive to give to the 527 committees, which are still able to collect six- and seven-figure checks. The groups are surrounded by legal challenges and controversy and provide little access to those who set policy. But people with strong partisan leanings have been inclined to contribute even if the money no longer gains them the kind of access it once did. 
 ''The new big money to outside groups is more ideologically driven,'' said Michael Lux, a Democratic consultant. ''Ideological donors are very highly motivated and very high profile. Some have really stepped up this year in a substantial way.'' 
 Grover Norquist, an influential Republican strategist who started a 527 group called American Resolve, calls these donors ''the true believers.''
 ''These are the guys who really, really care,'' Mr. Norquist said.
 While these donors are both Democratic and Republican, Democrats got an early start financing 527 groups, named for the section of the tax code that created them, as a way to compete against the vast fortune amassed by the Bush operation in the early days of the campaign. More recently, Republicans have pushed to counteract the Democratic money, courting top donors of their own. 
 Ms. Buell said she had already raised more than $1 million for the Kerry campaign and the Democratic Party, in addition to her own contribution. Her pledge to donate to the Joint Victory Campaign 2004, which finances the Democratic groups America Coming Together and the Media Fund, took place at a dinner at her home after she heard a presentation from the group.
 ''I knew I had to commit myself,'' she said. ''I feel desperate about what is at stake here.''
 Though not entirely happy with how the campaign finance system is emerging, Ms. Buell said there were few alternatives for those who wanted to influence the election. ''I get worked up and ask, 'What can I do?' and the first answer is always to give money,'' said Ms. Buell, who lives in Bolinas, Calif. 
 Agnes Varis of New York, who with her husband, Karl Leichtman, gave $1.5 million to the Joint Victory Campaign, said it was simply a way to back her political beliefs with more than talk. 
 ''I don't look at it like it will do anything for me,'' she said. ''I'm not going to get a Halliburton contract.'' 
 The recent Republican push comes after the party failed to choke off the flow of money to Democratic 527 organizations through legal challenges. 
 Established organizations like the Club for Growth have been joined by newer groups like Swift Boat Veterans for Truth and the Progress for America Voter Fund, which is emerging atop the list of Republican 527's when it comes to raising money. The Progress for America Voter Fund has tapped Alex G. Spanos, owner of the San Diego Chargers football team, and Dawn E. Arnall, a chairwoman of the Ameriquest Capital Corporation, for $5 million each, according to PoliticalMoneyLine. Both are also listed by the Bush campaign as Ranger fund-raisers, meaning they brought in at least $200,000 each from various donors.
 Richard M. DeVos Sr. and Jay Van Andel of Michigan, the co-founders of the Amway Corporation, each contributed $2 million to the Progress for America Voter Fund. 
 T. Boone Pickens, a Texas oilman who gained fame as a corporate takeover artist, has contributed $2.5 million to the Progress for America Voter Fund and $500,000 to Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. 
 ''In the beginning, we thought we would have a mix 50-50 of individual and corporate donors,'' said Brian McCabe, president of the Progress for America Voter Fund. ''It became clear pretty early that individual donors would be the key to our success. That's definitely a change.''
 Democrats have no shortage of their own big donors. 
 Few are better known than George Soros, the philanthropist and financier who has so far contributed more than $15 million to Democratic groups, said Michael Vachon, a spokesman for Mr. Soros. Peter B. Lewis, chairman of the Progressive Corporation insurance company, has donated about the same amount, an aide said.
 Stephen Bing, a Hollywood producer, has donated almost $7 million to Joint Victory Campaign 2004 and more than $970,000 to the MoveOn.org Voter Fund, according to PoliticalMoneyLine. Mr. Bing and his company have given more than any other contributor to Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, Mr. Kerry's running mate -- more than $900,000 over the course of his public career, according to a study by the Center for Public Integrity.
 For 527 committees, money from individual donors is the most useful. The McCain-Feingold law prevents groups from running commercials that mention candidates within 60 days of the general election if the commercials are financed with corporate or labor money. Groups using personal contributions to finance these commercials have more flexibility.
 Corporations and labor unions have not disappeared from political fund-raising, but instead are using their money in different ways, campaign finance experts say. Companies are less involved with 527's, but are working through political action committees, trade associations and executives who raise and donate money themselves. ''Corporations are still moving plenty of money into the system,'' Mr. Lux, the Democratic consultant, said. 
 Unions are still extremely active financing their own programs, and they have also given millions to 527 committees. Among the most active groups, union money has been eclipsed by individual donations, but that could change as it gets closer to the election. For example, officials at America Coming Together, which registers voters in swing states, expect that the Service Employees International Union will be its largest contributor by Election Day.
 Fund-raisers say that gathering money for advocacy groups is different than for the parties and that it relies more on promotion than attraction.
 ''It's not access money, it's movement money,'' Mr. Norquist said. ''They are not writing checks to sit down with congressmen.''
 Though some groups have done well with Internet and mail solicitations, major donors are almost always cultivated face to face. Fund-raisers travel the country, meeting with contributors in person to introduce their organizations and lay out elaborate plans to register voters or run advertisements.
 ''We raise money on our plan and our ability to carry that out,'' said Ellen Malcolm, who has jetted from city to city to help raise tens of millions for America Coming Together and the Media Fund.
 For many organizations, the pitch is tailored to attract hard-core partisans. Democrats trade on opposition to the war in Iraq or Mr. Bush's vast war chest. Republicans point to the importance of national security or the large amounts of money being raised by left-leaning groups. Mention of Mr. Soros is a particularly strong motivator.
 The conservative Club for Growth sent a letter to donors last month saying that ''a vast left-wing conspiracy led by a single billionaire is spending millions of dollars distorting President Bush's agenda for economic growth.'' 
 The letter asks for money to run a campaign of ''hard-hitting TV ads,'' saying, ''It's time to take the gloves off.''
 Stephen Moore, the group's president and author of the letter, said the country's polarized electorate and the strong feelings about Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry among partisans were all good for fund-raising.
 ''It has created a hospitable climate for raising money in large chunks,'' Mr. Moore said, adding that ''fear and hatred are powerful motivators.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Susie Tompkins Buell, co-founder of the Esprit clothing line, with T-shirts she made. She gave $1 million to a Democratic-leaning group. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Chart: ''Friends With Deep Pockets''The most active independent advocacy groups in the presidential race are relying on individuals to finance their activities, rather than the corporate and union money that the parties relied on for soft money donations.CONTRIBUTORS TO REPUBLICAN-LEANING GROUPSAlex G. Spanos -- California real estate developer, owner, San Diego ChargersHAS GIVEN: $5 million to the Progress for America Voter Fund, a new advocacy groupT. Boone Pickens -- Texas oilman and corporate investorHAS GIVEN: $2.5 million to the Progress for America Voter Fund
 $500,000 to Swift Boat Veterans for TruthRichard M. DeVos Sr. -- Co-founder of Amway, owner of Orlando MagicHAS GIVEN: $2 million to the Progress for America Voter FundCONTRIBUTORS TO DEMOCRATIC-LEANING GROUPSGeorge Soros -- Philanthropist and financierHAS GIVEN: More than $15 million to various Democratic advocacy groupsPeter B. Lewis -- Chairman of the Progressive Corporation, an insurance companyHAS GIVEN: About $15 million to various advocacy groupsStephen Bing -- Hollywood producerHAS GIVEN: More than $8 million to various advocacy groups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



521 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Fall On Weak Demand for Aircraft

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Orders to factories for big-ticket goods dropped in August, largely weighed down by a sharp decline in demand for commercial airplanes.
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that orders for durable goods -- costly manufactured products expected to last at least three years -- declined by 0.5 percent, after a 1.8 percent advance in July.
 The manufacturing picture, however, looked better when volatile transportation equipment, like airplanes, was excluded: orders then rose a solid 2.3 percent in August. That compared with a flat reading for July and was the biggest increase since March. 
 ''The manufacturing recovery is progressing,'' said Daniel Meckstroth, chief economist at the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a research group.
 Another report, from the National Association of Realtors, showed that sales of previously owned homes declined by 2.7 percent in August from July, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.54 million units. Even with the drop, which followed a 2.9 percent decrease in July, the pace of sales was still healthy, economists said.
 ''Since April, we've experienced three out of the four strongest months on record for existing-home sales and August was the sixth highest,'' said David Lereah, the association's chief economist.
 On the manufacturing front, economists were forecasting a 0.3 percent decline in overall durable-goods orders for August based on the expectation that demand for commercial airplanes would decline after rising sharply in July.
 Orders for commercial aircraft plunged by 42.8 percent in August, compared with a 103.6 percent surge in July. Bookings for military airplanes and parts also declined in August.
 The drop in orders for airplanes masked gains elsewhere. Orders for cars, computers, communications equipment, electrical equipment and appliances, and fabricated metal products increased in August.
 Those gains reinforce economists' beliefs that the manufacturing recovery continues to march ahead.
 The Federal Reserve, citing some improvements in the economy, increased short-term interest rates this week by one-quarter percentage point, to 1.75 percent, the third rate increase since June when the Fed's current rate-raising campaign began.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Aug.: -0.5%July: +1.8June: +1.3Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from March 2003 to August 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (72%); AIRLINES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Airlines and Airplanes; United States Armament and Defense; Military Aircraft; Housing; Sales; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%) Commerce Department; National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



522 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: At Center of Connecticut Case, A Man Who Exuded Power

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
From the moment former Gov. John G. Rowland made him his co-chief of staff in the fall of 1997, Peter N. Ellef let everyone know he was the man to see on matters ranging from state contracts to the governor's personal affairs.
 Now, federal prosecutors say he used his position to extort money and perks from people wanting to do business with the state of Connecticut. In the process, prosecutors say, he and five other defendants turned the governor's office into a racketeering enterprise, and a grand jury agreed on Thursday. 
 On Friday, Mr. Ellef, 60, was arraigned on charges that he and others manipulated tens of millions of dollars in state contracts, grants and loans in return for gold, cash, limousine rides, trips and other valuables. 
 Asked by United States Magistrate Donna F. Martinez how he wanted to plead, Mr. Ellef said, ''Not guilty, your honor,'' and was released pending trial on a $100,000 bond.
 Friends and relatives of Mr. Ellef say they barely recognize the person described in the indictment.
 He is a ''by-the-book guy'' who never ''took a dime from anybody,'' said Mr. Ellef's brother-in-law, Toby Hollander.
 Lawyers involved in the case said federal prosecutors were pressuring Mr. Ellef, who lost his job in early 2002, to help them mount a case against Mr. Rowland. They said the pressure consisted of nine counts against Mr. Ellef's son, Peter Jr., 33, known to his family as Bubba, and nine counts against the son's landscaping company, LF Design. Prosecutors say a major state contractor steered business to the company in return for state business. 
 Lawyers for all of the defendants have said they will fight the charges vigorously.
 ''He doesn't feel it's his job to make a case against anybody else, and he really doesn't feel that he's done anything wrong,'' Mr. Hollander said in defense of the elder Mr. Ellef. 
 Nor does the younger Mr. Ellef, according to Martin J. Minella, a lawyer representing him, who said his client had nothing to trade to avert a trial. ''The only way to avoid it is to drop the charges,'' he said before the arraignment on Friday.
 Mr. Rowland, who was in his third term as governor, resigned July 1 as a panel considered whether to impeach him. He has not been charged in the case, though federal prosecutors say they are continuing to investigate his administration. Those prosecutors have portrayed Mr. Ellef, known in Hartford as a tough, imperious manager, as being at the center of a cozy world inside the Capitol where favors were routinely exchanged between top gubernatorial aides and businessmen hungry for contracts.
 One of the more startling examples of horse trading alleged in the indictment was a protracted effort to steer a state contract to build a new $57 million juvenile training school in Middletown to a company owned by the family of William A. Tomasso of New Britain.
 According to prosecutors, Mr. Ellef was instrumental first in ensuring that a Tomasso company was awarded a no-bid contract for $2 million of emergency work on the old school, then pressed to have the Tomassos hired to manage the construction of the new school.
 To that end, he allowed Mr. Tomasso to accompany him on a fact-finding trip to Ohio weeks before the project was put out to bid. The indictment also states that a state employee, who was not identified, was contacted about serving on the selection panel and making sure the Tomasso company would be ''in the final group'' in the same week that Mr. Tomasso took Mr. Ellef on a $1,885 limousine trip to Boston.
 Once the Tomasso company was in place as the construction manager for the project and entitled to a $3.3 million fee, prosecutors say, the Tomassos sought to hire the landscaping company owned by Mr. Ellef's son and wife for work at the new school.
 It is not clear whether the landscaping company was ever hired. But on other occasions after Mr. Ellef landed the job in the governor's office, prosecutors say, entities related to the Tomassos awarded $1.6 million in landscaping and snow removal contracts to LF Design, subsidized the company's rent and paid it $202,500 in consulting fees.
 Mr. Tomasso and two of his family's companies, Tomasso Brothers Inc. and Tunxis Management Company, are also defendants. He has denied any wrongdoing.
 Mr. Ellef was born Peter Nicholas Eleftheriadis in Athens on July 23, 1944, to an American mother who had been trapped in Greece during World War II. Sent to the United States in 1948, he lived with his grandmother in Greenwich, Conn. She spoke to him only in English, and he had Americanized his name by the time he became a United States citizen in 1955.
 At Greenwich High School, he excelled at soccer and debate. The yearbook editors described him as ''full of fun'' and noted that he could ''talk his way into and out of anything.''
 In 1966, he married Daryl Shellhammer and graduated the following year with a business degree from the Citadel, in South Carolina. He was a captain in the Air Force, and though he talks little about it, family and acquaintances say, his service was formative. He was decorated for his service in the Vietnam War and completed jungle survival training, according to his 1972 discharge papers.
 After the military, he spent 23 years in sales and management at Cigna, the insurance giant. In 1980, he and Daryl and their three children moved into their current home, a green farmhouse with cream-colored trim in Avon, Conn. He and Peter Jr. built the adjacent post-and-beam barn themselves.
 Mr. Ellef joined the Rowland administration in August 1995 and eventually brought in Lawrence Alibozek, a Cigna colleague, as his No. 2. Mr. Alibozek pleaded guilty last year to having steered state contracts in exchange for cash and gold coins stashed in his backyard. He is cooperating with prosecutors.
 The two men embodied the kind of no-nonsense corporate model that Mr. Rowland, a Republican, promised to bring to government. But now some former gubernatorial aides say that Mr. Ellef's deal-making mentality and authoritarian style may have been part of his downfall.
 He was put in charge of the state's Department of Economic and Community Development, which gave him board seats on some of the state's quasi-public entities, and was named by the governor as chairman of the Connecticut Resources Recovery Authority, which handles trash disposal for much of the state.
 Under his leadership, the trash authority made several unconventional deals, including one with Enron in the months before its December 2001 bankruptcy involving energy produced by burning trash. Residents of 70 towns and cities lost $220 million on the deal and are paying high fees to dispose of their garbage because of it. The debacle ultimately cost Mr. Ellef his job in early 2002.
 But in the fall of 1997, he and Mr. Alibozek were riding high, and Mr. Rowland asked them to serve as his co-chief of staff and deputy chief of staff, respectively.
 Mr. Ellef had an expansive view of his role, and the indictment alleges that he used his position at the governor's side ''to create an atmosphere of intimidation within state government'' to get his way. 
 For a time, he demanded that all large state contracts be sent to his office for review. Mr. Ellef was also infamous in Hartford for the fierce way he treated subordinates and anyone he thought should answer to him. 
 Prosecutors do have some evidence that casts Mr. Ellef in a better light. Mr. Ellef's calendars show meetings he had with Kurt C. Claywell, the electrical contractor who gave cigars and Champagne to Mr. Rowland, which he said was to maintain access to his office. 
 But when Mr. Claywell wanted to thank Mr. Ellef for helping him land $6.7 million of electrical work with a case of Dom Perignon, Mr. Ellef returned it with a note saying the gift was unnecessary.
 Mr. Ellef may have been less circumspect, however, with the Tomassos, with whom he had almost daily contact. When Mr. Ellef visited China in November 1999 on official business, he was accompanied by Michael Tomasso, William's brother.
 Nine members of the Tomasso family were invited to the younger Mr. Ellef's wedding in June 2001, and state records show that Mr. Ellef arranged for seven of them to sit at the same table as Mr. Rowland and his wife, Patricia. 
 According to the indictment, a Tomasso company also picked up a $3,030 limousine tab from the wedding celebration.
 The Tomassos also allowed the younger Mr. Ellef to sell Christmas trees each year from their country club in Farmington, Conn. Until the Tomassos took an interest in the son's business, ''the kid had one little truck,'' said the previous tree vendor, James Zarrella. ''He was doing nothing, and then all of a sudden, boom.''
 Prosecutors also contend that a partnership called TREA L.L.C. was used to funnel at least $86,500 from the Tomassos to Mr. Alibozek and Mr. Ellef to ''influence and reward'' them for steering state contracts.
 An unsigned letter on Mr. Alibozek's stationery dated July 8, 1999 -- part of hundreds of thousands of pages provided to prosecutors -- explained that TREA was an acronym. The T was for ''a favorite family of ours,'' the Tomassos, the E was for Mr. Ellef and the A was for Mr. Alibozek.
 According to the letter, the R stood for ''responsiveness and responsibility.''
 Investigators have wondered whether, perhaps, it also stood for Mr. Rowland. When asked, Hugh Keefe, Mr. Ellef's lawyer, has said he is ''not at liberty'' to discuss TREA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GRAND JURY (77%); ETHICS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); POLITICS (60%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Extortion and Blackmail; Racketeering and Racketeers; Governors (US)

PERSON: Alison Leigh Cowan; Peter N Ellef; John G Rowland; Peter N Ii Ellef; William a Tomasso

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



523 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1389 words

PERSON: Francoise Sagan

HEADLINE: Francoise Sagan, Who Had a Best Seller at 19 With 'Bonjour, Tristesse,' Dies at 69

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Francoise Sagan, the rebellious French writer who achieved fame as a teenager with her first novel, ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' a precocious tale of sexual disillusionment, but whose international reputation dimmed as literary tastes changed, died yesterday in Honfleur, in northern France. She was 69. 
 The cause was a blood clot in a lung, friends of her family told Agence France-Presse. She had been in poor health for several years. 
 Ms. Sagan had an enormous international success with ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' about an amoral teenager who sets out to keep her philandering widowed father from marrying again. The novel was originally published in France in 1954. The following year an English translation reached No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list. Ms. Sagan was only 19, making her the youngest author to achieve that feat at the time. 
 By early 1958, the book had sold 810,000 copies in France and more than a million in the United States and had been translated into 20 languages. 
 Serge Gavronsky, a professor of French literature at Barnard College, said in a 1995 interview that Ms. Sagan's early novels expressed the rebelliousness and cynicism of many of her peers in the French bourgeoisie. Those books, he said, ''were perfectly in accord with a moment of time'' -- the mid-1950's -- and ''well connected'' with France's literary past.
 John Updike, writing in The New Yorker 20 years after ''Bonjour Tristesse'' appeared, praised ''its sparkling sea and secluding woods, its animal quickness, its academically efficient plot, its heroes and heroines given the perfection of Racine personae by the young author's innocent belief in glamour.''
 Later works by Ms. Sagan appeared repeatedly on best-seller lists in France, and she went on to write more than a score of books, as well as plays, film scripts, short stories and song lyrics. Some of her novels were turned into movies -- ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and ''A Certain Smile'' in 1958 -- and she directed the 1977 French film ''Les Fougeres Bleues.''
 ''Les Auteurs de la Litterature Francaise,'' a standard French work for students, described Ms. Sagan's terrain as somewhat limited: ''a worldly, rich, idle, luxurious universe; some characters who live without material cares, who drink, who love themselves without conviction. A taste for the unfinished, for biting analysis, for narcissism. Sagan has forever been recounting the rotting of a generation.''
 Roger Shattuck, a cultural historian and professor of French at Boston University, said in 1995 that Ms. Sagan's reputation ''had declined considerably after her first half-dozen novels'' because she wrote too much and repeated herself and because of changing literary fashions.
 Ms. Sagan's view of herself and her life was sometimes harsh. In ''Et Toute Ma Sympathie,'' a 1993 book made up largely of reflections, she included a poem in which she called herself ''this bizarre woman, childish and messed up.''
 In the first flush of Ms. Sagan's fame, she became known for drinking until dawn and gambling lavishly. It has been reported that she once made a killing at the gaming tables of Deauville and then turned around and used the money to buy herself a turn-of-the-century chateau.
 She also praised the joys of driving sports cars. ''Whoever has not thrilled to speed has not thrilled to life,'' she wrote in ''With Fondest Regards'' (1985). ''However madly and hopelessly in love you may be, at 120 miles an hour you are less so. Your blood no longer congeals around your heart; your blood throbs to the extremities of your body, to your fingertips, your toes and your eyelids, now the fateful and tireless guardians of your own life.''
 She suffered a skull fracture and other injuries in 1957 when her Aston-Martin overturned while she was living in Milly, a resort town in northern France.
 Ms. Sagan was convicted twice of narcotics offenses, in 1990 and 1995, receiving fines and prison sentences, which were suspended. 
 She once told an investigating magistrate: ''I believe I have a right to destroy myself as long as it does not harm anyone. If I feel like swallowing a glass of caustic soda, that's my own problem.''In 2002 she was also convicted of tax fraud in a case involving payments she received in the early 1990's to intercede with Francois Mitterrand, a friend and then the president of France, in an oil deal. Her health prevented her from appearing in court.
 Ms. Sagan was born on June 21, 1935, in Cajarc, a village in southwest France. She was the third and youngest child of Paul Quoirez, a well-to-do businessman, and his wife, Marie.
 Francoise Quoirez, nicknamed Kiki, grew up largely in Lyons and on an estate in the Vercors region in the southeast. When she was 15, her family moved to Paris. She attended convent schools before an unsuccessful academic experience at the Sorbonne.
 She took the pen name Sagan because she liked the way it sounded. The name also harked back to the Prince and Princesse de Sagan, 19th-century Parisians on whom Marcel Proust is said to have based some of his characters.
 After two years at the Sorbonne, with much time spent in cafes and little studying, she failed crucial year-end examinations in June 1953, angering her family. She felt she ''had to do something'' to placate them, she would recall, so she sat down and wrote ''Bonjour Tristesse'' in August. She had already been thinking about the novel and making notes for it for some months.
 The book begins with what has come to be seen as a vintage Sagan sentence: ''A strange melancholy pervades me, to which I hesitate to give the grave and beautiful name of sorrow.''
 In ''With Fondest Regards,'' Ms. Sagan, noting that ''Bonjour Tristesse'' enjoyed a ''succes de scandale'' when it first came out in France, said that in those days she could not understand what all the fuss was about.
 Looking back three decades later, she said the furor resulted partly from the relationship between the heroine, Cecile, and her boyfriend. 
 ''It was inconceivable,'' she wrote, ''that a young girl of 17 or 18 should make love without being in love with a boy of her own age, and not be punished for it.''
 Furthermore, she added, people couldn't accept that this girl ''should know about her father's love affairs, discuss them with him, and thereby reach a kind of complicity with him on subjects that had until then been taboo between parents and children.''
 Ms. Sagan continued to weave fiction from sentences that were a bit abstract in the French way but that at their best dealt trenchantly and economically with the emotions.
 Her other novels published in translation in the United States include ''A Certain Smile'' (1956), ''Those Without Shadows'' (1957), ''Aimez-Vous Brahms?'' (1960), ''Wonderful Clouds'' (1962), ''La Chamade'' (1966), ''The Heart-Keeper'' (1968), ''A Few Hours of Sunlight'' (1971), ''The Painted Lady'' (1983), ''Incidental Music'' and ''Salad Days'' (1984).
 Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1983, Nora Johnson praised ''the grace and freshness of her early novels, those slender tales of love between aged children and middle-aged burnouts that seemed so remarkable when they began appearing in the 50's,'' observing that Ms. Sagan ''seemed to know everything then.''
 Ms. Sagan won the Prix des Critiques in 1954 for ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and the Prix de Monaco 30 years later for her work as a whole.
 Her 1958 marriage to Guy Schoeller, a publisher, ended in divorce in 1960. Her 1962 marriage to Robert James Westhoff, an American ceramicist and sculptor, ended in divorce in 1963.
 Her survivors include a son, Denis, from her marriage to Mr. Westhoff.
 Ms. Sagan's views on romance could be somber. In a 1980 interview, she said: ''I think love is like an illness, an intoxication. Sometimes I've been intoxicated for three or four years, but never more. I think that people can be happy together for longer than I used to believe, but I still don't think it can be forever.''
 In a 1993 interview before her second drug trial, Ms. Sagan recalled: ''I had incredible luck because just when I grew up, the pill came along. When I was 18, I used to die with fear of being pregnant, but then it arrived, and love was free and without consequence for nearly 30 years. Then AIDS came. Those 30 years coincided with my adulthood, the age for having fun.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Francoise Sagan (Photo by Sichov/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (61%) 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

Eric Pace

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (57%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



524 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: A Family Says an Unexpected Goodbye to a Reluctant Soldier

BYLINE: By CAROL E. LEE

 BODY:
Growing up, my sister and I were known as ''the girls'' to the adults in our family. This nickname was even more in evidence when we visited our grandparents in Cleveland four times a year. There were only five grandchildren: my two cousins -- both boys -- my brother, my sister and me. My older brother and cousins were the coolest kids I knew; my sister was a stand-in companion I resorted to between exhausting attempts to tag along with the adventurous trio. I'd abandon her and our Cabbage Patch dolls to chase after them as they disappeared into the woods to make boy mischief. But my little legs could never catch up. This was a club that ''the girls'' would not get into. 
 Eventually the boys' macho alliance softened, and the five of us became fast friends. As we got older, there was security in knowing that no matter how much time had passed, we could always meet over a couple of drinks and pick up where we left off. 
 Still, we were pursuing different paths to maturity, and when my cousin Alan -- the youngest -- joined the Ohio National Guard after graduating from high school in 1997, none of us could fully relate to his choice. We weren't familiar with the emotional volatility that comes with having a soldier in the family. 
 But the National Guard seemed a fairly unthreatening option, as the military goes. My primary concern was whether Alan was in good enough shape to get through the arduous training. Once that was over, he had to train with his unit for only one weekend a month and two weeks a year for the next six years. His name would then be placed on an inactive list for another two years, unless -- as the recruiter who visited his high school had explained -- our country needed his skills during a natural disaster or a college riot.
 There was no question that the five of us could work our rendezvous around these obligations. And in the event of a flood or a hurricane, we could be proud that he was there to help.
 But two-day weekends became four-day weekends, two weeks stretched to three weeks, and full college tuition shrank to half the tuition for vocational school. Alan grew disenchanted with the National Guard, and the feeling seemed mutual. After he stopped showing up for duty, he was given a general discharge. His name was still placed on an inactive duty list -- a roster he was told was only for an unprecedented national disaster that active-duty soldiers couldn't handle alone. Barring such an event, he could continue building his civilian life as a plumber. He packed away his uniform, and none of us ever thought about it again. 
 Until last month. Alan received orders to report for ''involuntary'' duty on Sept. 12. Not in Florida, where hurricanes have uprooted people's lives. In Iraq. For a year and a half: 545 days to be exact, with two possible extensions. 
 Under a Sept. 14, 2001, executive order signed by President Bush, the Pentagon can deploy former National Guardsmen, like Alan, who have not been associated or trained with a unit in years. This ''stop loss'' policy kept his name on an inactive duty list of troops who could be transplanted at any time from any place in America to an unpredictable war zone abroad -- and kept there beyond their original deployment stipulations. 
 Along with the brave members of the military serving in Iraq, and the men and women from the National Guard who have been called up to do more than their duty, there are now thousands of stunned civilians who, like my cousin, have been blindsided by the president's executive order.
 Many, like Alan, were teenagers from working-class families looking for a boost onto a higher economic plane when they enlisted. They signed up for college tuition, health benefits, and floods and fires -- not 545 days abroad, car bombs and insurgents.
 Driving to Cleveland earlier this month to say goodbye to Alan, I wondered how families are supposed to handle the bittersweetness of a celebration for a loved one they may never see again -- or who may not return as the same person, having seen the horror of war. Do they acknowledge the haunt of mortality in the air? Do they point out that the guest of honor's laugh sometimes echoes in slow motion? Are you allowed to ask his views on the war he may die for? 
 I did. ''I never signed up for this,'' Alan told me as we drove to the airport to pick up my brother. ''Why are we even over there?'' I stared out the window at the flat Ohio landscape and wondered whether the life he regards as the ''real'' one would be still there when he returned from Iraq.
 Alan's fiancee, Mystica, is an active member of the National Guard. The fact that she recently returned safely from Iraq probably soothes some of his fears -- after all, she's about one-third his size. But Mystica had expected to be sent. She had viewed a tour in Iraq as inevitable. For Alan, it was a bolt out of the blue.
 The day before he received his summons to the active-duty Army as a combat engineer, Alan and Mystica had put a deposit down on an apartment. They took the letter to the landlord and asked for a refund, and Alan left his job so he could say his goodbyes.
 With my brother finally in town, the five of us gathered for a raucous sendoff. We started at our grandmother's house. She was ranting about needing a new cordless phone but refusing to buy one in a protest against how complicated they've become. We knew that her complaint was a front for her reluctance to replace the one on which Alan had slyly penciled ''OLD-LADY'' into the space for her phone number before he left for basic training nearly seven years ago. The prospect of her not being around to see him return this time must trouble her mind.
 Later that night, we toasted Alan with shots of tequila and laughed until our stomachs hurt. I soaked in every bit of his wisecracking personality that I could -- and realized what soldiers' families must all learn: moments like these call for ignoring the dire possibilities and parting as if there's no reason to think we wouldn't soon be back at the same place, picking up where we left off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TUITION FEES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (65%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: Carol E Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (59%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



525 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: As With Other Chip Makers, Sales Begin to Stall at Philips

BYLINE: By GREGORY CROUCH

DATELINE: NIJMEGEN, the Netherlands, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Signaling a possible wider slowdown in the semiconductor industry, Royal Philips Electronics on Friday became the latest company to say that its chip sales had begun to stall, at least temporarily.
 Having once predicted a spike of up to 4 percent, Philips's semiconductor division said third-quarter sales in dollars would not exceed this year's second-quarter result of 1.4 billion euros ($1.72 billion). Measured year to year, however, Philips forecast a 27 percent increase in third-quarter sales. 
 The revision did not surprise industry watchers as it followed similar announcements from companies like Intel and Texas Instruments. 
 ''To be honest, I haven't seen anyone who has raised their numbers,'' Scott McGregor, president and chief executive of Philips's semiconductor division, told reporters in Amsterdam.
 Mr. McGregor also reiterated on Friday that his recently announced resignation was for personal reasons and not related to the more modest expectations in his division. He intends to return to the United States at the end of the year.
 ''At the end of the day, I chose for my family,'' Mr. McGregor said, without elaborating. 
 Philips and much of the rest of the semiconductor industry had enjoyed double-digit growth until recently. Earlier this year, makers of cell phones, televisions and DVD recorders were worried that they might not be able to buy enough chips to meet demand.
 ''We had double ordering in the first half,'' Mr. McGregor said.
 Now, some of those same companies appear to be working their way through inventory and waiting before ordering more.
 Philips, for instance, said new orders were failing to keep pace with sales, a sign that gave some analysts pause.
 ''The fourth quarter is usually the strongest quarter of the year, so you would expect to see the bookings materializing in the third quarter,'' said Peter Olofsen, an analyst with the Amsterdam stock brokerage firm Stroeve.
 Mr. McGregor and some analysts said it was not clear yet whether the drop in semiconductor sales was part of a more worrying trend, namely a decrease in consumer demand for the kinds of products the chips are used in. ''It's certainly possible,'' Mr. McGregor said when pressed by reporters. ''I'm not saying that that's not true.'' 
 One thing nearly everyone agreed on: more price pressure is likely.
 ''Pricing is definitely not good and flat revenues don't help,'' said Bert Siebrand, an analyst with Bank Oyens & van Eeghen in Amsterdam.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott McGregor, left, chief executive of Philips, in Amsterdam yesterday, where he said that the company's semiconductor business was flat. (Photo by Paul O'Driscoll/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (94%); ELECTRONICS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CD & DVD DRIVES (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips; Sales

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (90%); INTEL CORP (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); OYENS & VAN EEGHEN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Philips Electronics

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (90%); PHIA (AMS) (90%); PHG (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: SCOTT MCGREGOR (90%) Scott Mcgregor; Gregory Crouch

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%) NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



526 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Poison Politics in Ukraine

BYLINE: By Jason T. Shaplen. 
Jason T. Shaplen writes frequently on foreign policy.

 BODY:
Think this year's presidential campaign in the United States is nasty? Take a look at politics Ukrainian style. On Sept. 6 the leading opposition candidate in the presidential election disappeared from the campaign trail. The first news of Viktor Yushchenko came a week later: he had been in Austria, recovering from what aides initially thought was acute food poisoning but subsequently said was an attempt on his life. They quoted doctors in Vienna as saying his illness was due to ''chemical substances not normally found in food products.'' At a rally upon his return to Kiev a week ago, Radio Free Europe reported, Mr. Yushchenko's face was swollen and half-paralyzed; he had difficulty reading his text and was salivating excessively.
 President Leonid Kuchma -- who is backing Mr. Yushchenko's main opponent -- laughed off accusations of foul play. The deputy head of his administration went a step further, suggesting that a Yushchenko aide should taste his food for him as they did with rulers in the Middle Ages. For its part, the state-controlled news media reported that Mr. Yushchenko might have had a stroke or heart attack with possibly lingering physical and mental effects. 
 The accusation of poisoning might seem frivolous were it not for the context of the campaign. The unpopular Mr. Kuchma is not running for a third term. Nonetheless, in a meeting in April, Mr. Kuchma made clear to several foreign policy experts and me that he intended to remain involved in politics after his term expired. In an effort to ensure this, he tried to pass a constitutional amendment in April that would have transferred power from the presidency to the Parliament, which his supporters control. Surprisingly, the amendment failed, falling six votes short of the two-thirds majority needed for passage.
 The Bush administration -- while admittedly focused on its own election campaign -- should not ignore the Ukrainian contest. It should put more pressure on Mr. Kuchma to ensure free and fair elections, including balanced coverage of the candidates by the government-controlled news media.
 This may be easier said than done. After holding Mr. Kuchma at arm's length for two years (after he was accused of authorizing the sale of Kolchuga aircraft-tracking radar to Iraq), the Bush administration recently began to re-engage him. President Bush met with Mr. Kuchma at a NATO gathering in June, and several other administration officials, including Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Richard Armitage, deputy secretary of state, have visited Kiev recently.
 The United States' interest in Ukraine is understandable. It sits at a crossroads with Russia to its east and an expanding Europe to its west. Since the collapse of the Soviet empire in 1991, Kiev has been engaged in an extraordinary dance between the two. Against the odds, it has made remarkable changes in its military, economic, social and, to a lesser extent, political structure, while keeping both its eastern and western flanks relatively happy. 
 Its military transformation alone has been stunning: Ukraine has rid itself of all its all tactical and strategic nuclear weapons. In just 13 years, it has also transferred control of its armed forces from military leaders to a civilian defense minister and reduced its armed forces personnel from about 1 million to 350,000 (with further reductions to 200,000 planned by the end of next year). And it has established formal relations with NATO, which it would like to join. In addition to sending troops to Iraq, Ukraine has contributed forces to NATO missions around the world, including Kosovo, Bosnia and Afghanistan.
 The changes on the non-military side of the equation have also been impressive. Ukraine's economy grew more than 8 percent last year, on top of 4 percent growth in 2002 and 9 percent growth in 2001. Inflation has also dropped to single digits from a high of 10,000 percent in 1993. While Kiev is not quite a bustling metropolitan city filled with skyscrapers, high-end restaurants offer food on par with upper-end establishments in New York, middle-aged patrons fill sophisticated jazz clubs at night, and 20-something crowds can be found in the early morning hours on the floors of high-tech dance clubs. 
 Against such positive changes across so many sectors, the latest efforts by Mr. Kuchma to amend the constitution and the accusations of possible poisoning are troubling. The government-controlled news media's election coverage is dominated by pictures of Mr. Yushchenko's opponent, Prime Minister Viktor A. Yanukovich. Still, many people expect the election on Oct. 31 will result in a runoff. 
 While the Bush administration has carefully dealt with Mr. Kuchma so as not to push him toward Russia's waiting embrace, it must also address his attempt to cling to power. The United States provided $189 million in aid to Ukraine during the fiscal year that ended last September, including $55 million for democracy programs centered in large part around these presidential elections. Any efforts to disrupt the electoral process should be met with threats of curtailing or suspending current and future aid. 
 Washington has other tools at its disposal as well. To this day, Ukrainians bridle at the ''Little Russia'' moniker for their country, as demonstrated by the title of Mr. Kuchma's very own book, ''Ukraine Is Not Russia.'' Ukraine desperately wants to be part of NATO and the World Trade Organization, aspirations that Washington could use to encourage Kiev to turn toward the West and democracy. But it must also make clear that regardless of Ukraine's geopolitical importance it will not shy away from confronting it on matters of principle like free and fair elections. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PARALYSIS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEART DISEASE (71%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); STROKES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); RADAR SYSTEMS (60%) Elections; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Poisoning and Poisons; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Constitutional Amendments; Politics and Government; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; World Trade Organization

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Jason T Shaplen; Leonid (Pres) Kuchma; Viktor A Yushchenko; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); AUSTRIA (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%) Ukraine; Ukraine; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



527 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Eke Out Small Gains, but the Nasdaq Falters

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks ended barely higher yesterday as a spike in oil prices to near-record levels pared earlier gains and renewed concerns about the effect of high energy prices on consumer spending and corporate profits.
 Investors sold off semiconductor-related stocks after Royal Philips, Europe's top consumer electronics group, predicted much smaller growth for the semiconductor industry next year.
 Blue chips had risen slightly as government data showed better-than-expected demand in August for durable goods other than transportation equipment, but the climbing oil prices put the brakes on the gains. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 8.34 points, or 0.08 percent, at 10,047.24. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended up 1.75 points, or 0.16 percent, at 1,110.11. The Nasdaq composite index finished down 6.95 points, or 0.37 percent, at 1,879.48.
 For the week, the Dow fell 2.3 percent, the S.&P. 500 lost 1.6 percent, while the Nasdaq dropped 1.5 percent. It was the second consecutive losing week for the Dow, which is languishing around five-week lows. The Nasdaq's drop snapped a string of five weekly gains. 
 Crude oil futures ended at a record settlement high of $48.88 a barrel, the highest seen on the exchange since crude oil futures were introduced in 1983, and within sight of the $49.40 intraday trading record set on Aug. 20. Traders said a move by the government to lend some oil from its strategic reserves would not be enough to alleviate supply shortage worries.
 Among oil companies, ChevronTexaco rose 1 percent, to $52.83. Marathon Oil was up 2.4 percent, to $40.52, after Smith Barney raised its rating on the company, saying long-term oil prices will be about 15 percent higher than it previously expected.
 In the semiconductor sell-off, Xilinx fell 4.9 percent, to $27.66, and Altera was off 4.9 percent, at $19.30. They were among the biggest decliners on the Nasdaq.
 On the Big Board, Texas Instruments fell 3.4 percent, to $21.69. 
 Referring to semiconductors, Robert Drust, managing director of listed trading at the investment bank Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles, said: ''They got really hammered. It looked like somebody just had a specific sell program and just pounded it.'' 
 McDonald's gave a slight lift to the Dow, rising 46 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $27.60.
 Cisco Systems, the largest maker of gear for directing traffic over the Internet, dragged on the S.&P. as its shares fell 2.7 percent, to $18.40. 
 Fannie Mae shares fell 2.4 percent, to $65.51, as investors grew wary of accounting issues at the company. 
 Shares in Monster Worldwide, the Internet jobs search company, rose $1.30, or 5.8 percent, to $23.58, after it said it had raised prices for job postings on its Web site, and a research note from Piper Jaffray said it expected the stock to outperform its estimate in the current quarter.
 The software company PeopleSoft rose 3.8 percent, adding 74 cents, at $19.99. Its rival, Oracle, is likely to win clearance from the European Commission for its takeover of PeopleSoft, someone close to the situation said.
 Cogent, the fingerprint identification company, soared 50 percent, to $17.98, in its market debut after the initial public offering priced at the top end of its range. 
 Treasury securities fell after a report showing higher-than-forecast durable goods orders added to speculation that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates at least once more by year-end. The 10-year note fell 2/32, to 101 26/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.03 percent from 4.02 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ELECTRONICS (90%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (80%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); MARATHON OIL CORP (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); CHEVRON CORP (53%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (51%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (80%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); MRO (NYSE) (53%); CVX (NYSE) (53%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



528 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: For Florida, the Campaigning Just Has to Wait

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Pollsters in this crucial swing state were forced to twiddle their thumbs for six weeks. Fund-raisers did not dare seek donations, and campaign volunteers found themselves clearing debris from neighborhoods they had hoped to canvass on behalf of Senator John Kerry or President Bush.
 Three back-to-back hurricanes have crippled the campaign season in Florida, and political candidates are only now starting to make up for precious lost time in a state whose residents may be too storm-fatigued to notice. With a fourth hurricane looming just offshore, lawmakers and political operatives are gasping at the irony that Florida, which scrupulously prepared for November to make up for its gaffes in 2000, is mired in chaos nonetheless.
 ''It's been rather dramatic,'' said Allan Oliver of the League of Conservation Voters, which hopes to canvass 250,000 Florida homes before the election but suspended operations after Hurricane Charley blew the roof off its building in Orlando. ''We now have a much tighter window and a much bigger challenge.'' 
 Mr. Oliver's group and others quit knocking on doors after Hurricane Charley hit on Aug. 13, and Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry stopped making campaign appearances here, though Mr. Bush briefly visited the three regions that were hit hardest by the storms. While the president and his brother Gov. Jeb Bush passed out supplies and soothed victims, Mr. Kerry -- whose Florida headquarters in Fort Lauderdale was evacuated for Hurricane Frances -- stayed away except for a short trip to the area pummeled by Hurricane Charley.
 He and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, finally returned to Florida this week, doling out sympathy for residents while gingerly trying to refocus them on politics.
 Many strategists predict that President Bush's presence after each hurricane, and the swift arrival of federal emergency workers and aid, will help his chances in Florida, where he defeated Al Gore by just 537 votes in 2000. Almost all assume that Mr. Kerry's long absence here will hurt him. But some experts theorize that the storms could work against Mr. Bush, either because some voters will grow frustrated with the pace or amount of federal disaster aid, or because Hurricane Frances distracted people at the very time that Mr. Bush was basking in the glow of the Republican National Convention. 
 ''My sense is things are pretty much exactly where they were right before the conventions, which is more or less even,'' said Jim Kane, chief pollster for Florida Voter, a nonpartisan polling organization. ''Within two weeks we could be back to normal again, but it's all dependent on what happens out in the Atlantic.'' 
 Though polls have started trickling out again in recent days, the absence of any here since early August has been the biggest handicap for political candidates, who base decisions about advertising and the image they project on polling data. Brad Coker, managing director of Mason-Dixon Polling & Research, a nonpartisan group that conducts polls in Florida, said all of his projects were on hold until at least next week. The inability to get accurate results in areas like Pensacola, where tens of thousands of people still lack phone service and power after Hurricane Ivan, would skew numbers, he said.
 The Panhandle is solidly Republican, as is the slice of southwestern Florida where Hurricane Charley made landfall in August. Palm Beach County, the largest county affected by Hurricane Frances, is heavily Democratic, while Orlando and the inland communities that Hurricane Charley ravaged are swing-vote territory.
 ''I would defy anyone to show me a two- or three-day window where they could have done a poll that wouldn't be screwed up by fact that people are without phones or living in hotels up in Georgia,'' Mr. Coker said. ''Even once you've got power back, you've still got a couple of days cleaning up the mess, and psychologically you just don't want to be bothered by telephone calls from strangers.''
 He should know -- he said he was less than pleased to get a telemarketing call from a termite-removal company the day after his power was restored after Hurricane Frances. 
 Representative Mark Foley, a Palm Beach County Republican whose district was slammed by the first two storms, said the lack of polling data had federal, state and local candidates ''flying blind'' at a pivotal time. In particular, it is impossible to determine the impact of television advertising, he said. 
 ''If you can't gauge reaction, you can't say, 'Let's pull this health-care ad and go for an economy ad,''' Mr. Foley said. ''You're doing a social science experiment without data, and that's very dangerous for any of us because you need to test reaction in a state like this.'' 
 Several candidates, including Mr. Foley, said they did not run advertisements right after the storms because viewers might be offended and, with widespread power outages, the commercials might not be seen. 
 The storms have particularly hurt the campaigns of Mel Martinez and Betty Castor, the Republican and Democratic candidates for Senate. While Florida newspapers and television stations have covered the presidential race along with the storms, the Senate candidates have had a much harder time getting coverage and therefore raising money, several strategists said. Their campaigns did not begin in earnest until Sept. 1, the day after the Senate primary, and they have canceled numerous appearances and fund-raisers since then.
 Ms. Castor, who finally began advertising again last week, appealed for donations in a recent e-mail message that said the hurricanes had ''severely stalled'' her campaign. 
 ''Power outages across the state have caused the cancellation of essential television advertising,'' she wrote. ''These ads have been delayed. And you can understand how difficult it is to ask people for campaign donations during the cleanup from a major natural disaster.''
 Equally hamstrung are the independent advocacy groups known as 527's (for the section of tax law that created them), many of which had set up shop in Florida for get-out-the-vote efforts and advertising, mostly on behalf of Democrats. One of the largest such groups, America Coming Together, stopped canvassing in Tampa and Orlando for more than two weeks. During that time, its staff members volunteered for the Red Cross and picked up debris in African-American neighborhoods, said Tait Sye, a spokesman.
 Mr. Oliver said his group, the League of Conservation Voters, dispatched most of its staff to recruit more volunteers in Texas, Georgia and Washington after Hurricane Charley damaged its office. 
 ''We did a few test canvasses but found that people were, for very good reasons, not focused on the election,'' he said. ''We only started up again Saturday, and we're still bringing out disaster information to folks as we canvass. We are trying to be as respectful as we can at the door.''
 Notwithstanding the threat of Hurricane Jeanne, the campaigns and the organizations that support them see a potential saving grace: the first presidential debate, scheduled for Thursday at the University of Miami, which they hope will refocus Floridians on the election.
 And even though it remains difficult to poll voters in the Pensacola region, several groups released statewide surveys this week that might light fires under the campaigns. A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll released Thursday gave Mr. Bush a 49 percent to 46 percent lead over Mr. Kerry among likely voters in Florida.
 There is also the question of whether Florida's frazzled voters will meet the registration deadline of Oct. 4, and whether their polling places are still standing. Doug Wilkes, supervisor of elections in Santa Rosa County, which Hurricane Ivan battered, said that one polling place was ''gone'' and that others would need to be relocated. 
 Mr. Wilkes said he met last week's deadline for sending out overseas ballots only by driving to Alabama to pick up the ballots from the printer, stuff envelopes in a hotel room and mail them from there. 
 Pat Hollarn, the elections supervisor in neighboring Okaloosa County, said she was struggling to process a storm-inflicted backlog of 4,000 registration applications. Up to nine of the county's polling places might have been be badly damaged, she said.
 As a hurricane warning was posted for Florida's entire eastern seaboard Friday for Hurricane Jeanne and Governor Bush declared the fourth state of emergency of the season, the Kerry campaign quietly scrapped plans for Mr. Edwards to visit on Sunday, though Matthew Miller, a spokesman, played down the significance of the cancellation.
 ''It's a campaign,'' he said. ''Our plans change. Especially in this state.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about the effects of the hurricanes on campaigning in Florida used a misspelled given name in some copies for the director of the Florida League of Conservation Voters, who said the organization faced a big challenge after having suspended operations because of Hurricane Charley. He is Allan Oliver, not Alan. A picture caption gave a misspelled surname in some copies for a league member who visited two women in their damaged home in Orlando. He was Jourdan Haynes, not Hayes.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jourdan Haynes of the League of Conservation Voters with Marie Joboam, left, and daughter Carolyn Boulin at their damaged Orlando home. (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); WEATHER (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; News and News Media; Political Advertising; Public Opinion; Registration of Voters; Finances; Charley (Storm) ; Frances (Storm); Presidential Election of 2004; Ivan (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%); AL GORE (57%) Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



529 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Promises To Refocus U.S. On Terror War

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Escalating his critique of President Bush as commander in chief, Senator John Kerry declared here Friday that the invasion of Iraq was ''a profound diversion from the battle against our greatest enemy, Al Qaeda,'' and asserted that he would refocus the nation's energies on ''the real war on terror.''
 Less than a week before the first presidential debate, Mr. Kerry took aim at what has long been considered Mr. Bush's greatest political strength since 9/11 -- the perception that he would do a better job keeping the country safe from future attacks. In two fiery speeches here, with widows from 9/11 and mothers of soldiers at his side, Mr. Kerry dismissed that notion and argued that Mr. Bush's real record on fighting terrorism was a catalogue of mistakes. 
 ''Let me be as blunt and direct with the American people as I can be,'' the Democratic challenger said at Temple University. ''The invasion of Iraq was a profound diversion from the battle against our greatest enemy -- Al Qaeda -- which killed more than 3,000 people on 9/11 and which still plots our destruction today. And there's just no question about it: the president's misjudgment, miscalculation and mismanagement of the war in Iraq all make the war on terror harder to win. 
 ''Iraq is now what it was not before the war -- a haven for terrorists. George Bush made Saddam Hussein the priority. I would have made Osama bin Laden the priority. As president, I will finish the job in Iraq and refocus our energies on the real war on terror.''
 Mr. Kerry's speech on terrorism came four days after he unveiled a rough new critique of Mr. Bush's handling of the war with Iraq, and was intended to lay the groundwork for next week's debate on foreign policy. It reflected the newly combative tone from the Democratic challenger as he tries to reclaim the political ground lost in August, making the case in speeches and a new round of advertising that Mr. Bush is not a steady wartime leader but a man out-of-touch, who lives ''in a fantasy world of spin.''
 Mr. Kerry asserted that Mr. Bush had ''outsourced'' the job of capturing the terrorist leader to ''Afghan warlords who let Osama bin Laden slip away.'' He said the president had resisted the creation of the 9/11 commission and then resisted its recommendations for an overhaul of the nation's intelligence system. And, he said, Mr. Bush had mishandled domestic security, not providing the money needed for protecting American ports, mass transit and airports, and leaving the nation vulnerable as a result.
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Kerry was simply embracing ''initiatives that the president is already implementing, even as he cynically attacks the president with defeatist rhetoric and talk of retreat.'' 
 Reiterating a counterattack that has emerged in recent days as Mr. Kerry confronts the Republicans on security issues, Mr. Schmidt added, ''John Kerry will say anything he thinks benefits him politically, regardless of its effect on our troops in the field and our allies fighting alongside them.''
 Outlining his own antiterrorism plan, Mr. Kerry said he would ''make Afghanistan a priority again, because it's still the front line in the war on terror.'' He said he would put new emphasis on ''denying our most dangerous enemies the world's most dangerous weapons,'' by securing and reducing nuclear stockpiles. And he said he would lead a new effort to block nuclear weapons programs in North Korea and Iran.
 Mr. Kerry also promised to ''wage a war on terrorist finances every bit as total as the war we wage on the terrorists themselves.'' He drew one of his biggest rounds of applause when he declared, ''I will do what President Bush has not -- I will hold the Saudis accountable,'' noting that there had been no public prosecutions of terrorist financers in Saudi Arabia since the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The Democratic challenger said he would substantially increase money for securing borders, airports and seaports, including $2 billion to upgrade security on subways and railroads, ''so that what happened in Madrid doesn't happen here.''
 Mr. Kerry also said the United States must have a long-term strategy to deny terrorists ''recruits and safe havens.'' He argued that Al Qaeda was engaged in a struggle for the ''heart and soul of the Muslim world,'' and the United States could win that war when the people in the region ''once again see America as the champion, not the enemy, of their legitimate yearning to live in just and peaceful societies.''
 To that end, Mr. Kerry advocated an array of proposals to strengthen economic and political development in struggling states, including a new emphasis on debt relief for countries engaged in reform and major increases in money for global health initiatives, particularly those concerning AIDS.
 Clearly speaking to the female voters drawn to Mr. Bush because of security issues, Mr. Kerry declared, ''No American mother should have to lie awake at night wondering whether her children will be safe at school the next day.'' 
 He was introduced at Temple by two women who lost their husbands in the attacks on the World Trade Center, and he was introduced later in the day at a huge outdoor rally at the University of Pennsylvania by the mother of two soldiers deployed to Iraq, part of a new group of Kerry supporters called Moms with a Mission.
 Mr. Kerry, still trying to preserve his voice as he battles a cold, nevertheless seemed to revel in the crowd of thousands that sprawled across a campus green at Penn. He told the cheering crowd that America was ''locked in a real struggle'' with terrorism that it must win, but added that the nation could not win by alienating its allies and pushing them to the side.
 Mr. Bush ''alienated them not because they disagree with his style,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''They disagree with his judgment. And we need a new president with a fresh start and better credibility,'' he shouted over the chants of ''Kerry! Kerry! Kerry!'' He went on, ''And I will restore America's reputation in the world and bring us to a better place.'' 
 Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat campaigning with Mr. Kerry on Friday, said Mr. Kerry had told him, ''I feel liberated,'' referring to recent days, when Mr. Kerry had begun to sharpen his attack and confront Mr. Bush head-on on foreign policy.
 ''Right now, I'm seeing the John Kerry I served with, the guy who says what he thinks,'' Mr. Biden said of a candidate so often described as running his best when running from behind. ''I know this John Kerry.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I would have made Osama bin Laden the priority,'' Senator John Kerry said yesterday at Temple University. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 President Bush campaigned across Wisconsin yesterday, ending with a rally in Racine. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); RELIGION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Islam; Presidential Election of 2004; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004



530 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Charting a Course In a Sea of Demands

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
CHIEF executives are under intense pressure -- whether from shareholders, environmental and labor activists or reinvigorated directors -- to change their companies' ways. Executives need to understand which groups to work with and which ones to fight, says David A. Nadler, chairman and chief executive of Mercer Delta Consulting, a management consulting firm based in New York. Following are excerpts from a conversation with him:

Q. Chief executives seem to be coming under fire from lots of new and different directions. Do you agree?

A. Yes, in working with chief executives, I've found that a major issue in front of them is, ''How do I deal with all the constituencies who want something from the company or from me personally when many of them are increasingly hostile?''
 There were always traditional constituencies, including the financial markets, customers, suppliers and your own people. But now, more and more time is being spent with regulators, prosecutors, legislators, the press, various communities and various special interest groups.

Q. They are dealing with more lawyers, too, right?

A. The chief executive of a major financial services firm told me recently that he was talking with peers in the industry and they discovered that, on average, each of them faces six governmental investigations related to shareholder lawsuits. Most of that has little to do with serving the customer. But it's a fact of life.
 Juggling all those constituencies and trying to figure out which ones are most critical, which ones you have to pay attention to, is difficult.

Q. In general, do you tell your clients to work with activists and disgruntled shareholders or to stonewall them?

A. The advice I'd give is, identify which constituencies can be worked with. There are some elements of the plaintiffs' bar with whom there are no common interests. But in other cases, you can find common ground.

Q. Home Depot is one company trying to get out ahead, in this case on the question of where it gets its lumber, right?

A. Yes. Staples has done the same thing on the environment. There are a number of companies that have done it. If there is an issue arising, get out ahead of it.
 That's what social capital is all about. By his or her actions, a chief executive can build up social capital, or positive feelings about the company. Johnson & Johnson had positive social capital so that when it ran into the Tylenol crisis, it had a positive reservoir of feelings.

Q. Who else uses their social capital well?

A. There are also companies that have worked their way back from a situation where every constituency was critical of them to the point that they re-established credibility. Anne Mulcahy at Xerox, for example, has been working on that the last couple of years, reaching out to groups, to customers, to constituencies. She's been credible and delivered on her promises.

Q. Are more nongovernmental organizations and activist groups attacking companies?

A. Yes, we're seeing a rise of interest groups. As a consequence of what's happened in the economy and the business scandals, there's a more negative view of corporations. They have become more attractive targets.

Q. Can you think of a company or an industry whose top executives are not handling the new climate well?

A. The mutual fund industry is on the receiving end of this. If you're in that industry, you have to reflect on what's happened.

Q. And how do you think the oil industry is handling the pressures it is facing?

A. Another industry where you'd expect there would be a lot of negatives about the environment or price increases would be the oil industry. But BP, whose chief executive is John Browne, has positioned itself well with a commitment to alternative fuel research and the environment.

Q. But BP's highly publicized relationship with Greenpeace fell apart.

A. But still, BP has clearly been active in doing things to position themselves and show that they recognize the problems.

Q. Do you see this adversarial climate for chief executives as permanent?

A. I think it's going to be here for some time. The accessibility of information has improved dramatically, thanks in part to the Internet. Interest groups can form much more easily and can communicate across time zones. I think it's a fact of life that's going to continue to be part of a chief executive's job.
 The really tough part of this is that the boundaries between internal and external constituencies have blurred. In the Wal-Mart situation, these are their employees who are pressing their cases. Managers have both internal and external challenges.

Q. What's the biggest mistake chief executives make in handling these pressures?

A. When they go back into the C.E.O. cave and don't engage.

Q. So a smart chief executive builds a coalition to respond to those putting pressure on the company?

A. Absolutely. Building social capital means that you have other people who feel positive about what you've actually done over time. It's the job of chief executives to orchestrate that and build that coalition of support to deal with the attacks that are going to happen.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); LITIGATION (67%) Executives and Management; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%)

PERSON: ANNE MULCAHY (57%) David A Nadler; William J Holstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



531 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; STYLE: THE WAY WE DRIVE NOW; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 2521 words

HEADLINE: Engines of Change

BYLINE: By Spike Gillespie. 
Spike Gillespie lives in Austin, Tex. She is the author, most recently, of ''Surrender (But Don't Give Yourself Away): Old Cars, Found Hope and Other Cheap Tricks.''

 BODY:
Have seen a new Toyota Prius up close. I have touched it and smelled it and, without even needing to pull the key or ''fob'' from my pocket, where the car can sense it just fine, pushed its gigantic iBook-like starter button and driven it for miles and miles, fast and slow. I have been awed by the dreamy blue-green digital dashboard gauges, which seem so very far away from the steering wheel as to be reachable by only an N.B.A. player. I have, in one trip, with the two back seats down, easily hauled two air-conditioners and a 37-pound bag of dog food in the hatchback, The Prius isn't small, the way it used to be.
 I have wowed the kids in my son's soccer car pool who are getting close to driver-permit age and who instantly developed hopeful first-car crushes on the Prius. I have -- despite stern warnings not to -- tried to drive the Prius while at the same time watching the irresistible dash-embedded computer screen, which, with its bright cartoon representations of the engine and bar graphs displaying fuel efficiency, gives you the sensation of being a game-show contestant. 
 I have been quizzed by spectators; when you are spotted getting out of the spaceship-like Prius -- which all but shouts: ''Look at me! I am consuming more and I'm consuming less: more on my car and less on my gas!'' -- it is not unusual to fall victim to all manner of unsolicited commentary. (Go driving in one of the other available hybrids -- the Ford Escape, the Honda Civic or one of the two General Motors hybrid pickup trucks, the Chevy Silverado or G.M.C. Sierra -- and no one gives you a second glance.) In one instance, I was accosted by an excited stranger wanting to conduct an on-the-spot inspection and discuss Prius attributes and minutiae, which he'd read about in detail, dreaming of owning one himself someday.
 Despite the naysaying from independent mechanics who warn that manufacturers will drive up repair costs by restricting information to dealers and from critics who say that the savings on gas over a car's lifetime won't make up for its higher price, there is no question that hybrid technology is spreading into the mainstream. More and more car makers have been adopting it since 1999, when Honda's Insight became the first hybrid on the American car market. (Toyota's Prius appeared in Japan in 1997, but it arrived in the U.S. after the Insight.) Considering that the Insight and Prius were freshly made technological showcases, they seemed to promise that future hybrid vehicles would continue to flaunt their distinctiveness, showing off eye-grabbing exteriors and gadget-filled interiors. Instead, the next four models on the market, and the majority of hybrids now in the planning stages, are going in the opposite direction, invisibly incorporating hybrid technology into existing best-selling automobiles. Each approach can claim to be successful: it still usually takes months on a waiting list before you can buy a Prius, which suggests that plenty of drivers want bold new cars, while Ford and Lexus have been overwhelmed by requests for information about hybrid-equipped versions of much-loved current S.U.V.'s. And G.M. plans to introduce a Saturn S.U.V. in 2006 and a Chevy Malibu sedan the year after. Ultimately, of course, the marketplace will determine how cars evolve in the coming years. It's easy to imagine the Prius foretelling the development of newfangled vehicles that take advantage of hybrid technology to flaunt new designs -- or at least prompting manufacturers to blend hybrid inspirations (like push-button starters) into otherwise familiar automotive styles. But it may be that 20 years from now the Prius will be a high-ticket eBay item, desired more for its short-lived quirkiness, its A.M.C. Pacer-ness, than anything else.
You'd think that car makers might want to develop some new packaging for their hybrid technology, but most are choosing not to. Despite the success of the from-scratch Prius -- demand for the four-door sedan far outruns supply -- most manufacturers are sticking with the tried and true.
 Honda, for instance, decided to update an old favorite, the Civic, for its second entry into the hybrid market. Perhaps this decision was influenced by sales of the Insight, a two-seat, three-cylinder insect of a car. Despite having the best mileage of any gas-powered car -- more than 60 miles per gallon in ideal conditions -- sales have more or less tanked, making it the second-worst-selling Honda.
 Robert Bienenfeld, senior manager of Automobile Product Planning for Honda, attributes low Insight sales in part to a lack of practicality: one reason mileage is so high is that the car is so tiny. But another possibility is that buyers aren't afraid of change so much as they are afraid of the look of change. ''Our research is that if you change the way you operate the car and make it difficult, then people are going to shy away from it a little bit,'' Bienenfeld says.
 Honda's decision to go with a hybrid Civic seems to be proving the point. ''We found that it has hit a mark,'' Bienenfeld says of the decision to forgo the Insight's stark innovation in favor of putting hybrid technology in a sturdy old favorite. ''It's kind of a top-of-the-line Civic for people.'' Consumers are ''happy'' to have the technology in a car that's ''not goofy or odd or unusual. When somebody says, 'Gee, it looks like a regular Civic,' we've done a great job.''
 Which isn't to say driving a hybrid Civic is precisely the same as driving a standard Civic. The most noticeable difference is that when you brake, the combustion engine shuts down temporarily while an electric battery powers things like the air-conditioner and the stereo. Turn these off at a red light, and you won't hear your car at all. Mostly, though, you hardly notice differences. The additional dials that alert you to whether the electric battery is using or storing energy during the drive blends in with the rest of the dashboard, and you soon forget you're driving a hybrid.
 And that's how hybrid manufacturers seem to like it -- for the most part. ''The whole point of a good hybrid system is to make it transparent to the customer,'' Bienenfeld says. ''If you make it really seamless so they don't really know what's going on, you kind of want to tell them because you're doing something pretty amazing, and you want them to appreciate it. At the same time you want them to not worry about it.''
 Matt Kester, assistant manager of communications for Hybrid Powertrain Systems at General Motors, agrees. He says that it's a small percentage of people who want innovative devices -- ''like 1 percent who want these image vehicles.'' Kester points out that G.M. first jumped into the hybrid market with ''what people come to us and buy'' -- pickups. ''Our strategy is to take hybrid technology and apply it to the highest-consuming and highest-volume vehicles first,'' he says. ''The average person who buys a truck wants to get in the truck and have it do what they want it to do. They really don't care how it does it. Bells and whistles add cost to the vehicle and don't serve a lot of purpose.''
 Of course, you can't help wondering a bit why the ''average'' pickup buyer would be willing even to consider paying a few thousand dollars more for a hybrid that, to the naked eye anyway, doesn't seem to look or do anything different. The estimated improvement in fuel economy is only 10 percent, which means hybrid pickup drivers will at best barely clear 20 miles per gallon. Frankly, the term ''hybrid pickup'' seems rather oxymoronic, given the various stereotypes involved.
 Kester has a retort, however: ''Just because a person needs a truck doesn't mean they don't care about the environment,'' he says. ''There's a lot of people that need a truck -- people who have boats and trailers, and they also take their truck and drive it to work every day. This gives an opportunity to get better fuel economy.'' Size is an attraction, too. The hybrid pickup is, Kester says, ''more practical than a Prius. It's got room for five passengers. It can haul a trailer. It's a 290-horsepower full-size truck. You couldn't get your wife and a bag of groceries in the first-generation Prius.''
 But the secret, entirely inconspicuous appeal of hybrid trucks and S.U.V.'s may just be that most ubiquitous of domestic necessities: the electrical outlet. The Ford Escape comes with a 110-volt outlet (for an extra $110), which is perfect for those days when the car pool is running late and you need to take along a toaster or hair dryer. More impressive, G.M.'s Silverado and Sierra have four 120-volt outlets (two interior, two exterior), which in effect turn them into generators as well as means of transportation. Four appliances can run off the engine for up to 32 hours. (The horn toots a warning before the gas tank runs dry.)
 This capability earned G.M. some favorable attention recently during a power outage at a Nascar event in Indianapolis. While the crowd waited for the electricity to be restored, a Silverado hybrid kept fans happy by running the M.C.'s audio system and XM radio sound panels. G.M. also sent a fleet of 50 hybrid pickups to Florida after Hurricane Charley. ''They're being used as work and rescue trucks,'' Kester says. ''One is capable of powering four 20-cubic-foot household refrigerators. They can cool plasma or medicine.''
 Or just fire up power tools, a use that is touted in the trucks' how-to video. Imagine a fantasy Man Day out in the woods, trees being cleared with an electric chain saw while the Super Bowl plays on a big screen TV and the beers chill in a full-size refrigerator wedged into the truck bed next to the TV. (But that still leaves a fourth outlet -- for the George Foreman Grill, perhaps?)
There is a possibility that the success of the Prius lies in the very thing its hybrid competitors shy away from: innovation directed at those fearless embracers of everything new. The car has so many Hey-Look-I'm-a-Hybrid features that you half expect to find a tree growing in the back seat. ''Prius is one of our technology showcase vehicles,'' Paul Daverio, Toyota's product manager for the Prius, says. ''With the first-generation Prius, we will admit we did target early adopters of this technology -- people very much more environmentally sensitive.'' But he attributes the sales success to something else. ''There really truly is not a sacrifice'' in driving it, he says.
 Or it could be the Prius's greatest feature is not technology but its scarcity. In a recent catch-up e-mail message, my friend Anna, who lives in Boston, described her quest to purchase one: ''We've been on the list for a Prius since last August (2003), we are getting the runaround from the dealer about what number we are on the list and how many they get each month. It was supposed to be a four-month wait. A few months ago, I got a Prius key chain in the mail from Toyota, and we thought maybe they'd follow it up with an actual key a few weeks later (or start sending us other car parts -- hubcap, fender, engine). No luck. Mike needed a car a few months after we got on the list, so he bought a used Honda Insight, which he loves.''
 Another friend, Dave, ordered a Prius from a small dealer in Pennsylvania, and despite being sixth on the list, he had to wait a couple of months for a car that wasn't quite the color combo he signed up for. He settled for it anyway.
 Likewise, Chris Cavello, an industrial designer in Austin, Tex., signed up to buy a Prius in October 2003. His initial attraction was ''this whole notion of living a smaller life.'' But as it became clear that the waiting list for the car was akin to the line at some new hot Manhattan club, he admits he got caught up in the hype. Worsening his anxiety was the fact that Blake West, another principal at his firm, Mixer Group Inc., managed to track one down inside of two weeks by endlessly calling dealers all over the state. He found one in College Station, home of Texas A&M University and a town better known for pickups than for small Japanese imports.
 ''I was dying to get mine,'' Cavello says. ''I called the guy all the time -- 'When's it coming?!' I was really excited. I never waited for a car, certainly not seven months. It had a lot of buildup. I'd wait a month and call and find my number on the list. First it was 64, then it went down to 41, then 28, then 17. Then out of the blue the guy called, 'I got your car.' '' Except the car the dealer said was his had an after-market stereo, not the integrated sound system he ordered. Adding insult to injury, the dealer wanted another hundred bucks. ''It was that moment,'' Cavello says, ''where you're like, 'I waited seven months. . . . ' I said, 'I'll buy it.'''
 Afterward, Cavello had to reconcile himself to the fact that his new car was not his old turbo-charged Passat. At a red light once, a kid in ''this dorky little car with a ridiculous air spoiler'' revved his engine at Cavello, who, trying to return the favor, quickly discovered that ''you cannot rev the hybrid engine. I was totally emasculated.'' Instead, Cavello has had to settle for miles-per-gallon competitions with West; the co-workers often compare notes to see who gets the most. West usually wins. (The firm's third partner, Julie Heard, is above the fray: she drives a Honda Insight.) ''Chris and I have identical vehicles, but there is a difference because I'm a little bit more of a grandmotherly driver,'' West says. ''I don't stomp on it -- Chris is still pushing the accelerator hard.''
 In other words, because hybrids get higher mileage in stop-and-start city traffic than they do on the open road, unlike ordinary cars, driving like an octogenarian finally gets you ahead of the competition.
 And that may be the most we can really expect from a new kind of car for now. Toyota plans a 50 percent increase in worldwide production of the Prius next year. Still, it seems more likely that the hybrid that flaunts its hybridness will become the rarity. Lexus, a division of Toyota, just announced presales of more than 9,000 luxury RX 400h hybrid S.U.V.'s, the biggest preorder in the company's 15-year history. Another 25,000 ''hand raisers'' have registered for more information at the company's Web site -- and for a car whose cost is still unknown. ''We haven't determined the pricing yet, but our customers are telling us they're willing to pay between four and five thousand more for a comparably equipped RX 330,'' Mark Templin, Lexus vice president of marketing, says. Templin acknowledges the evidence that consumers want what they know, saying that as more models are rolled out -- and he claims the technology is no passing fancy, but on its way into the mainstream -- the trend of installing hybrid systems in existing popular vehicle models will continue. ''I think it's about the technology more than it's about the design,'' he says. ''I don't think people will see the need to develop a vehicle that looks different, especially in the luxury market.'' So don't expect the electrical outlets on your future cars to call attention to themselves. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Toyota PriusA. Multitasking screenB. Rear view of hatchbackC. Deluxe steering wheelD. Gear knobE. Shiny clean engineF. Cool ignition buttonG. (Less thirsty) Gas tank(Photographs by Jeff Minton)The Ford Escape: Looks like a pickup. Doesn't quite sound like a pickup. Costs more. Uses less.The Honda Insight: It can get more than 60 miles to the gallon, but sales have tanked anyway, maybe because it looks so different.(Photographs left: Ford Motor Company. right: Honda.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); SOCCER (68%); INSPECTIONS (68%); SPACECRAFT (66%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (52%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: Spike Gillespie

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); JAPAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



532 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; COPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: The Priciest Room You'll Never Use

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT'S one of the mysteries of New York City life: Why is it that New Yorkers who are lucky enough to have balconies rarely sit on them? In Venice, some Juliet may still call to her Romeo from her balcony, but in New York, from the white-brick high-rises of the Upper East Side to the Mitchell-Lama towers of the Bronx, romance is unlikely to cross that particular threshold. 
 Balconies, which scale facades like so many giant staples, are mostly for show. Brokers brag about them, and it's conventional wisdom that apartments with balconies command higher prices than comparable ones without. But the virtues of balconies -- a breath of fresh air, a view, a taste of country living in the city -- seem to be appreciated mostly in the abstract. 
 Not that they are thoroughly ignored. Balconies often are converted into the urban answer to the garage: stuffed with bikes, skates, cast-off furniture, bags of children's toys and other objects that either don't belong in the house or that you can't quite bear to get rid of. Other people put plants on them, although as one Upper East Sider observed of her neighbors' plants, they usually die. Orthodox Jews give them a workout this time of year, when in Jewish neighborhoods like Williamsburg, every balcony seems to have been converted into a wooden hut for the harvest festival of Sukkot. 
 Not that people will admit to neglecting their balconies. That would be like admitting that you lack style -- that perhaps you're someone who can't tell the difference between Chablis and chardonnay. (But honestly, who can?) 
 Sheila Uran is one of the few candid balcony owners. Ms. Uran is the owner of a fifth-floor balcony apartment in a red-brick, postwar high-rise on Madison Avenue near 89th Street. She freely admits that she has not gone out on her balcony in at least 10 years. For one thing, the door is stuck.
 ''A little bit of air would come through it so I had a handyman close it so hard that it never opened at all,'' she said. ''So I just never open the door. I just never go out there.''
 Some people in her building barbecue on their balconies, although they're not supposed to. But, she added, they take their food inside to eat. The only neighbor who regularly sits on his balcony, she said, just moved to the city from Latin America, and may not have absorbed local customs quite yet.
 Are New Yorkers too busy to enjoy their balconies? Do they live in the city because they don't really like the outdoors? Are they afraid of allergies? Air pollution?
 Tom Mellins, a curator at the Museum of the City of New York, remembers a cartoon from the 1960's, a time when many modern high-rises with balconies were built. In the picture a mother says to her child, ''Eat your soup before it gets dirty.''
 But at the beginning of the 20th century, said Andrew Dolkart, a professor of historic preservation at Columbia University, balconies were seen as healthful, an antidote to the ''white plague,'' the epidemic of tuberculosis that thrived in dark and crowded tenements.
 In 1909, Mrs. William K. Vanderbilt Sr. announced that she was putting up $1 million to build four model tenements designed as a place where tuberculosis victims could live with their families. Mrs. Vanderbilt's East River Homes, now known as Cherokee flats, faced the breezes from John Jay Park and the East River, from 77th to 78th Streets, and had balconies on every floor. The balconies were big enough to hold a table, and, according to an admiring 1909 article in this paper, ''in hot weather, a bed or two may be placed outside there.''
 With the advent in the 50's of sleek white-brick buildings like Manhattan House, at 200 East 66th Street, balconies gained middle-class cachet. ''White brick was considered clean and healthy,'' Mr. Dolkart said, ''and so balconies would add to that.''
 You can almost always tell a Mitchell-Lama building from a low-income housing project because the middle-income building has balconies. And because balconies cost a quarter of the price of building a room, but bring in half a room's rent, there is an economic incentive to have them, Mr. Mellins said.
 But balconies are merely middle class, not associated with Gatsbyesque wealth and status. In true luxury buildings, Mr. Mellins said, the coveted amenity is not a balcony but a setback penthouse or a terrace, like the ones on the Beresford and the Majestic along Central Park West. 
 Now back to that mystery. If Romeo came courting Juliet in New York today, she probably wouldn't hear him over the hum of the air-conditioner. It is air-conditioning, everyone agrees, that has killed the balcony.
 Ms. Uran has central air. ''I never even open a window,'' she says.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Coping column last Sunday, about balconies that go unused, misstated the setting for ''Romeo and Juliet,'' the play with perhaps the best-known balcony scene. It is Verona, not Venice.




GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); RELIGION (68%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) Housing

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



533 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: 3-Bedrooms Soar as New York Nests

BYLINE: By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
IT was as frenzied as a Manolo Blahnik sample sale. Michele Kleier, a broker at Gumley Haft Kleier, put the prewar, three-bedroom apartment on the market two weeks ago, then stood back and watched the hordes that descended for her first and only open house. ''We must have had 100 people in two hours,'' she said. The seven-room co-op at 88th Street and Madison Avenue went into contract above the $3.45 million asking price in a four-way bidding war.
 These days the most prized apartment may be the one that offers three bedrooms. Buyers, typically families needing space for children or couples seeking space for offices, are finding that there is very little available.
 The extra bedroom doesn't just add a bit to the price. To get a prewar three-bedroom, buyers have to spend an additional $700,000 to $1 million above the cost of a two-bedroom. 
 Three-bedroom apartments are the fastest growing share of the market, according to a study by the residential brokerage firm Brown Harris Stevens. Of 5,489 sales during the first eight months of this year, 638 were three-bedrooms, increasing the market percentage of three-bedroom sales to 12 percent from 9 percent for the same period last year. 
 On the East Side, the median price of a three-bedroom apartment rose to $2 million from $1.3 million. (If the price tags on Manolos increased by that much there would be riots by wage-earning fashionistas.) On the West Side the median price grew to $1.75 million from $1.59 million, while the median price downtown grew to $1.55 million from $1.47 million. 
 Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Brown Harris Stevens, who conducted the study, suggested that the surge is driven by families opting to raise children in the city and young people looking to trade up. 
 Not all three-bedrooms are created equal. ''When you get into larger apartments, there is a lot of difference in size and design,'' Mr. Heym said, with square footage ranging from 900 to many thousands. Prices range from $299,000 in Harlem to $12 million and beyond on the Upper East Side. But no matter where they are, he said, ''the demand is strong and they tend to hold their value.''
 Classic seven-room prewar apartments average $2 million to $4 million; a three-bedroom with two maid's rooms, another typical configuration, is at least $4 million to $6 million, according to Deanna Kory, a senior vice president at the Corcoran Group who specializes in large apartments on the Upper East and West Sides. Ms. Kory said that, in general, the larger the room count, the larger the rooms. ''If you look at a six-, seven- and eight-room apartment, the seven and eight are going to have larger-scaled rooms,'' she said. ''And the price goes up exponentially.''
 Demand for affordable three-bedroom apartments is at least as intense. Next week, the Developers Group will market a new building in Washington Heights, the Bennett Condominium at 736 West 187th Street, of which 27 of the 56 apartments will be three-bedroom units starting in the mid-$500,000 range.
 ''We are already getting an enormous amount of phone calls about them,'' said Highlyann Krasnow, the executive vice president of sales for the Developers Group. 
 Many good values can be found in Washington Heights and neighboring Inwood. ''I think that's where the growth market is, in that area,'' said Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens. ''It is more affordable for young families whose means might be more limited. There are direct subway lines and buses. Amenities are catching up. If you're priced out of one area, you just keep going until you can afford it.''
 Some couples who look for apartments before starting a family, so they won't have to move continually, find the prices rise faster than they can make decisions. 
 Patricia A. Zapf, an associate professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and her husband, Robert Parfitt, a business consultant, now rent a three-bedroom on the Upper West Side. 
 Ms. Zapf said that they started looking at two-bedroom apartments last year and that most of the units were going for $660,000 or more. ''I can't even think about paying that much,'' she said. But in a year, she said, ''they went up to $880,000.'' That made them realize they had to act fast.
 They have been actively looking for and bidding on three-bedrooms for the past six months. But they have had to branch out to other neighborhoods, and they're now looking in Harlem. 
 Currently there is only one three-bedroom apartment on the market in their price range of $450,000 to $500,000 in Harlem, according to Ms. Zapf. But the apartment, with a $475,000 asking price, is in an income-controlled building in which buyers cannot make more than $160,000 a year. (The couple exceeds that limit by $5,000). 
 For some intrepid buyers, the do-it-yourself three-bedroom is the most effective way to get a spacious apartment. Steve Goldschmidt, an associate broker with Warburg Realty, sold five units in a co-op conversion building in Morningside Heights at 535 West 110th Street in a matter of months. Several of them were going in pairs at $650 to $800 a square foot for raw space to buyers who planned to combine them. For one of the larger combinations that would have 2,300 square feet, the price tag was about $1.5 million, before renovations.
 ''This is not buying mint condition,'' Mr. Goldschmidt said. ''These are people who are independent business people who don't show the traditional co-op package. Here they can take two whole apartments and make it their own.''
 Downtown, Mr. Goldschmidt said, three-bedroom apartments in residential areas like TriBeCa are swallowed whole as soon as they hit the market.
 Some buyers prefer TriBeCa because they don't like the prewar style. ''You know the apartment in 'Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House'?'' asked Julie Spigelman, referring to the 1948 movie starring Cary Grant. ''That's what uptown apartments look like to me. They are so boxy.''
 Mrs. Spigelman and her husband, Sam, a urologist, who are from Los Angeles, recently bought a three-bedroom apartment in TriBeCa. They had planned to sell their house in Los Angeles, buy a smaller one nearby and get an apartment in downtown New York at some point in the next two years. But they moved faster when they discovered how quickly apartments were going and how much prices were rising.
 Their daughters, 17 and 20, are in musical theater and were planning to move to the city. The Spigelmans wanted to have space for their children to stay and something they could use as a second home in retirement. They thought a one- or two-bedroom might work. While Mrs. Spigelman and her older daughter were in New York to see some plays last March, Mr. Spigelman called from California to suggest they check out a one-bedroom he had found online. 
 ''I loved the building, I loved the area,'' Mrs. Spigelman said of the condo building on Nassau Street overlooking City Hall Park. She called her husband from the apartment and he asked her if she could see them living there in 20 years. ''I said not even if we were newlyweds.''
 ''I'd forgotten how small an apartment in New York can be,'' she said. ''I'm here in my house 3,000 miles away looking at them online. One bedroom, two bedroom seems pretty doable. But when you stand in it and say 'I'm going to cram everything I own in this place, my husband, and have space for children?' ''
 The listing agent, Lisa Wong of Douglas Elliman, suggested Mrs. Spigelman look at another apartment in the building, a three-bedroom on a higher floor. 
 ''I walked in and looked out at the Empire State Building, called him from the doorway and said, 'Put the house on the market, we can live here.' ''
 In the time it took to get the check sent overnight from California for the apartment, the only other three-bedroom unit in the building went into contract, which made Mrs. Spigelman very nervous. But this summer, they closed on the apartment. 
 New developments like the Time Warner Center and the Trump buildings are adding three-bedroom apartments that are less family oriented, and are attracting buyers without children who simply want the space.
 Michael Shvo, an agent with Douglas Elliman who also works as a consultant to developers, said some buyers in the Time Warner building have converted 2,400-square-foot apartments into one-bedroom units. ''They want the space, but not all those rooms,'' he said. 
 So why not just build them as one-bedrooms in the first place? 
 ''As a developer,'' he said, ''it doesn't matter how many square feet, if you can put in three bedrooms you're always going to get more money for it than if there is only two. As conscious as people are about price per square foot, they are also conscious of price per bedroom.''
 His current developments, including a building at West Broadway and Franklin Street that will have 2,600-square-foot three-bedroom units starting at $4 million, are being designed with modular floor plans. ''If people want to knock a wall down, they can,'' he said. ''If they want to combine it with the apartment next door, they can.''
 Three-bedroom apartments in new developments in Brooklyn are also selling quickly, in certain neighborhoods. Two units from the Developers Group in Park Slope at 103 St. Marks Place -- each with three bedrooms, three and a half baths and more than 2,400 square feet -- were priced at $890,000 and $980,000 and sold in two weeks. 
 But it's a different story in Williamsburg. At another building handled by the firm, the 226 South Second Street Condos, the three-bedroom triplexes priced at $900,000 and $940,000 took longer to sell.
 ''In Williamsburg our best seller is a two-bedroom, not a three-bedroom,'' Ms. Krasnow said. ''A lot of younger people are going there to get more bang for their buck. Once the size gets big, then the purchase price gets too high.''
 With prices rising so quickly, those who want larger apartments feel increasing pressure to move before prices rise further. 
 ''Things that we were looking at that were $700,000 are now $1 million, $1.2 million,'' said Lucy Appert, a teacher at New York University, who with her husband, Edward, has been flirting with buying a three-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side for the last five years. ''We could never tell anyone in North Carolina, where we're from, that we're looking at million-dollar apartments.''
 With both of their families in the furniture business in North Carolina, the couple had so much furniture crowding their two-bedroom Upper East Side apartment that they had to rent storage spaces. 
 ''We are looking for some mental space and then public space -- a living room, a dining room, then room for a family in the future,'' said Mr. Appert, a senior manager at Deloitte Touche Tohma.
 They calculate compromises (should they look at two bedrooms, move out of the Upper East Side, jettison furniture?) even as they are conscious of the clock ticking on current prices. 
 ''We have that eternal optimism,'' Mr. Appert said, ''and hope that someday we can get a bigger space.''

A Range of Sizes, Shapes and Prices
 THREE-BEDROOM apartments come in all sizes, shapes and prices. Here is a sampling of what is on the market right now in Manhattan:

Under $500,000
A five-room, two-bath co-op at 130 Lenox Avenue in Harlem, for $299,000. The unit is on the ninth floor of a doorman building and has western exposures. 
 Norman Horowitz and Alexander Liu, Halstead Property (212) 381-6511; www.halstead.com

$500,000 to $1 million
 A 1,100-square-foot co-op with two baths and a 1,600-square-foot terrace at 900 West 190th Street in Washington Heights, for $677,000. 
 Caroline L. Brown, Century 21/William B. May (212) 923-8402; www.williambmay.com 

$1 million to $3 million
 A 1,750-square-foot six-room co-op at 525 East 80th Street, for $1.895 million. The unit, in a postwar building, has two baths, a sunken living room and a large master bedroom.
 Maria Boafo, Douglas Elliman (212) 702-4065; www.elliman.com

Above $3 million
 A co-op in a prewar building at 336 Central Park West and 94th Street, for $3.45 million. It was converted to a seven-room unit with the renovation of two maid's rooms into a larger kitchen, and its third bedroom has been renovated to a den with a wet-bar in place of a closet. 
 Robert Browne, Maria Pashby and Chris Kann, Corcoran Group (212) 893-1728; www.corcoran.com


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 26 about three-bedroom apartments for sale in New York misstated the form of ownership for a 1,750-square-foot six-room apartment at 525 East 80th Street, listed for sale for $1.895 million by Maria Boafo at Douglas Elliman. It is a condo, not a co-op. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: APARTMENTS FOR SALE -- A three-bedroom, 1,100-square-foot apartment on West 190th Street in Washington Heights, left, has a doorman and a large wrap-around terrace for $677,000. The bedroom below is part of a seven-room co-op on Central Park West at 94th Street priced at $3.45 million. At 525 East 80th Street, bottom, a 1,750-square-foot six-room apartment with a sunken living room is $1.89 million. (Photos by left, Heidi Schumann for The New York Times
above, Meg Henson for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 11)Drawing (Illustration by Lou Beach)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Coveted Three-Bedrooms''Three-bedroom apartments in Manhattan are pricier and more popular this year.East SideSHARE OF ALL SALES (first 8 months of year)2003: 12%Median price: $1.3 million2004: 15%Median price: $2 millionWest Side2003: 10%Median price: $1.59 million2004: 12%Median price: $1.75 millionDowntown2003: 4%Median price: $1.47 million2004: 6%Median price: $1.55 million(Source by Brown Harris Stevens)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); FAMILY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

PERSON: Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



534 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Chipping Away At Harlem

BYLINE: By BILL PERKINS and MICHAEL HENRY ADAMS. 
Bill Perkins is a city councilman who represents parts of Harlem, the Upper West Side and Morningside Heights. Michael Henry Adams is the author of ''Harlem: Lost and Found,'' an architectural and social history.

 BODY:
In many ways, New York still embodies the ''two Americas.'' Even with Harlem's second renaissance under way, for many life remains as unequal as ever. And although Harlem is one of the city's leading tourist destinations, visitors hoping to see the fabled Harlem of yore instead find a disenchanting vista of parking lots and forgettable buildings standing where the Cotton Club, the Lafayette and Audubon Theaters, Small's Paradise and the Savoy used to be.
 Harlem has many buildings eligible for historic landmark status, but not enough of them have that protection. Fewer than 10 percent of the landmarked properties in Manhattan are north of 110th Street. 
 The dearth of historically protected buildings in an area where the rates of high school dropouts, male unemployment, childhood asthma and illicit drug sales set records might seem unimportant. But just like the fight for equal accommodation in restaurants or theaters, the fight to save Harlem's architectural heritage raises issues of equal protection under the law. At a recent forum at the Museum of the City of New York, Gene A. Norman, former chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, lamented that a substantial part of Harlem's cultural legacy will be lost for good if action isn't taken soon. Indeed, that is the case with St. Thomas the Apostle Roman Catholic Church on 118th Street. Although it has been praised as a neo-Gothic marvel by the city's leading architectural historians, the 97-year-old St. Thomas has never been put on the city's landmarks list, and the Archdiocese of New York wants to demolish it and build housing for the elderly there. 
 As resplendently magnificent a church as one could hope to find, St. Thomas is so obviously a landmark that even without official recognition, tourists from around the globe come to see it. But when urged to protect St. Thomas, Robert Tierney, the chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, first suggested that it was too late to save it. Then, this past week, he and others signaled that they might be swayed. 
 At an unusual meeting last Tuesday, the commission was scheduled to consider landmarking two other significant churches in Harlem -- All Saints, at 47 East 129th Street, and St. Aloysius, at 215 West 132nd Street, -- the first time in 25 years individual Roman Catholic churches have been placed under landmark review. But the groundswell of support for preserving St. Thomas, a church not on the agenda, clearly stole the show. 
 St. Thomas has not always been that popular or that welcoming to its surrounding neighbors. Some parishioners remember that black worshippers (many transplanted from the Caribbean) were not initially welcomed. Julienne C. Jack, whose father, Hulan Jack, was Manhattan's first black borough president, says that in the 1920's, African-Americans were told, ''Your church is St. Charles on 141st Street.'' But the Jacks eventually became pillars of the parish, and St. Thomas became an integral part of black Harlem. 
 Today, the archdiocese estimates that St. Thomas, neglected for years, requires $5 million in repairs, and regards restoration as fiscally imprudent. It wants to tear it down and build 57 housing units for the elderly poor. 
 Harlem could certainly use more apartments for the elderly, but why are we being asked to sacrifice heritage for housing? Why is it that people in one America are able to have landmarked historic buildings as well as new well-equipped schools and housing for the elderly, while in that other America -- where the people of Harlem live -- one is asked to re-enact the Judgment of Solomon? 
 We can do more than to accept the same old divisive choices. In New York, not a week goes by without good causes raising millions of dollars in contributions large and small. The Landmarks Conservancy administers a $4 million fund for the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, earmarked for the preservation of Harlem's historic churches. Surely, we can, working together, find funds to save St. Thomas. All three churches should be recognized. By doing so we can help make America one nation again, a nation that includes places like Harlem, a nation where health care, housing, education and landmarks are given equal emphasis, because they are all essential to the pursuit of happiness and a prosperous society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TOURISM (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (54%); ASTHMA (54%) Historic Buildings and Sites; St Thomas the Apostle Roman Catholic Church (Nyc); All Saints Roman Catholic Church (Nyc); St Aloysius Roman Catholic Church (Nyc)

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Bill (Councilman) Perkins; Michael Henry Adams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) New York City; Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



535 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Decline on Weak Outlook for Earnings

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
All three main stock gauges fell last week after several companies downgraded earnings outlooks, the price of crude oil climbed back to near $50 a barrel and the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by a quarter-point for the third time since June.
 On Wednesday, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped below 4 percent for the first time since April, signaling concern about the pace of growth but more confidence on inflation. 
 Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever cut earnings forecasts and Morgan Stanley had third-quarter earnings that came in below expectations. Colgate was down 16.9 percent for the week, the second-biggest loser in the Standard & Poor's 500, after Delta Air Lines. On Friday, the price of crude oil rose to $48.88 a barrel, its highest closing price since oil futures began trading in 1983.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 fell 18.44 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,110.11. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 237.22 points, or 2.3 percent, to 10,047.24. The Nasdaq composite slipped 30.61 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,879.48. The 10-year Treasury yield, after falling to 3.98 percent on Wednesday, ended the week at 4.03 percent. That was still down from 4.11 percent the week before. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Martha Stewart Living OmnimediaNYSE: MSOA judge ordered the company's founder to start serving her five-month prison sentence on Oct. 8. The company also said it had agreed to work on a new television show.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.07WEEK'S CHANGE: +35.58%EST. '04 P/E: --Onyx AcceptanceNNM: ONYXThe auto finance company's stock rallied after Capital One Financial bid $28 a share in a deal valued at $191 million. The acquisition is expected to be completed early in the first quarter of 2005.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.14WEEK'S CHANGE: +65.49%EST. '04 P/E: --KB HomeNYSE: KBHThe builder said that its third-quarter net income rose 20 percent. The federal government said that in August, home construction climbed to its highest level in five months.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $83.52WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.17%EST. '04 P/E: 7.57Colgate-PalmoliveNYSE: CLThe consumer products company said its earnings would be 57 cents to 59 cents a share -- well below forecasts -- in the third quarter and fourth quarter because of factors like higher marketing costs.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $45.15WEEK'S CHANGE: -16.90%EST. '04 P/E: 18.62Morgan StanleyNYSE: MWDThe investment bank said its quarterly profit missed Wall Street's expectations and dropped by a third on lower bond-trading revenue, weak equities results and higher expenses.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $50.03WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.76%EST. '04 P/E: 12.27TRM Corp.NNM: TRMMThe consumer services company said that it had agreed to buy a network of 17,000 A.T.M.'s in retail locations in the United States and Canada from eFunds for $150 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.61WEEK'S CHANGE: +34.66%EST. '04 P/E: 26.59ExxonMobilNYSE: XOMShares of the oil and gas company declined when Deutsche Bank lowered its recommendation on the stock to hold from buy. The move was part of the bank's broader downgrade of the oil sector.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.83WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.12%EST. '04 P/E: 14.30Fannie MaeNYSE: FNMFederal regulators said that they had raised the possibility of a management shake-up at the mortgage giant.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $65.51WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.15%EST. '04 P/E: 8.46(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) 

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (57%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (57%); UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



536 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; FOLLOWING UP; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 585 words

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:

Priest Winds Down A Very Public Career
 After decades of work to save souls and save a community, the time has come to save some time and energy for himself and his family, the Rev. Louis R. Gigante says.
 So, he said last week, he has retired from his longtime post as a parish priest for the Roman Catholic Church in the South Bronx, and has cut back his work as the leader of an organization that helped revive the area after its years as a symbol of urban blight.
 Now 72, Father Gigante has had a long career in which a combination of charisma and controversy often put him in the spotlight. The attention began in the 1970's, when he ran unsuccessfully for Congress, and then successfully for the City Council; he served on it for four years. 
 In the 70's, he opted for a contempt citation and a week in jail rather than answer questions before a grand jury about whether he had tried to obtain easier jail conditions for a reputed mobster. He maintained that the questions infringed on his right to practice his ministry.
 On the urban renewal side, a nonprofit group he founded in 1968, the Southeast Bronx Community Organization, or Sebco, has produced low- and moderate-income housing for more than 3,000 families, mostly near the Church of St. Athanasius, where Father Gigante served as a priest starting in the early 1960's.
 That service ended two years ago when he retired as associate pastor. ''I had to slow down,'' he said last week. ''I had too many things to do, including family obligations, and I was overwhelmed, and my health became important to me.'' 
 He remains the president and chairman of Sebco Development. But now he puts in just ''two, three days a week,'' he said. As for retiring from the group, he said, ''I'm not ready.''
 Father Gigante has also not abandoned his contention that his brother, Vincent Gigante, who is in prison, was never a Mafia boss and did not fake insanity in an attempt to avoid prosecution. This despite the fact that a jury convicted Mr. Gigante in 1997 of racketeering and murder conspiracy, and that in a plea deal last year in another case he admitted that he had long faked mental illness.
 Father Gigante insisted that his brother had to make the admission to minimize additional prison time and to spare his co-defendants from receiving long sentences.

Case Is Not Yet Closed In Killing by Officer
 In January, Timothy Stansbury Jr., 19, above, intended to use the roof of a building in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, as a shortcut to a party in an adjoining building. He approached the door to the roof from an inside staircase as Officer Richard S. Neri Jr., who was patrolling the roof with his gun drawn, was approaching the same door from the outside.
 The door opened. The officer's gun fired. Mr. Stansbury was fatally wounded. That he was black and unarmed and the officer was white heightened the anger in predominantly black Bedford-Stuyvesant. 
 A Brooklyn grand jury declined to indict the officer, who said he had fired unintentionally when he was startled as Mr. Stansbury pushed open the door. 
 But the case is not over. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn are still reviewing it to determine if Mr. Stansbury's civil rights were criminally violated, their office said last week. The police said they were still reviewing it to see whether the officer violated departmental regulations. Officer Neri remains on administrative duty. The lawyer for Mr. Stansbury's family, Kenneth E. Ramseur, said he planned to sue the city, alleging wrongful death.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); FAMILY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MURDER (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); MISCONDUCT (69%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (67%); GRAND JURY (67%); VERDICTS (67%); CONSPIRACY (65%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%) Priests; Biographical Information; Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church; Southeast Bronx Community Organization; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Louis R (Rev) Gigante; Timothy Jr Stansbury; Richard S (Police Officer) Neri

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



537 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; STYLE: THE WAY WE DRIVE NOW; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 5468 words

HEADLINE: The Autonomist Manifesto (Or, How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Road)

BYLINE: By John Tierney. 
John Tierney is a correspondent in The Times's Washington bureau.

 BODY:
When you drive into San Diego on Interstate 15, you can see the highway of the future. In fact, you can see two different versions of it in the same lanes.
 In the center of each of the express lanes are faint black smudges, each a couple inches in diameter, spaced at intervals 1.2 meters apart. Beneath each smudge is a stack of magnets. A car with the right equipment can drive down the road all by itself, guided by the magnets and radar that tracks nearby cars. Here at last is the automated road that futurists have been promising for so long. Here is the ''beam control'' highway that ''Popular Mechanics'' envisioned in a fanciful 1940 article about a family's one-day jaunt from Washington, D.C., to visit Aunt Lillian in California. When engineers in San Diego sent a caravan of eight Buicks down I-15 at 65 miles per hour, the steady-handed computers at the steering wheels kept the cars spaced just 15 feet apart. By squeezing three times as many cars on the highway, this technology could drastically ease traffic congestion -- if only engineers could figure out a way to get millions of drivers to buy these systems. For now, the beam-control highway is still in the future. 
 Meanwhile, a much simpler technology is already eliminating traffic jams on I-15: a computerized gatekeeper that charges variable admission to the express lanes, raising or lowering the toll every six minutes, depending on how many drivers take the offer. If similar computers were charging variable tolls in other cities, they could not only ease congestion on existing roads but also generate the money to pay for new roads. Americans, liberated from bumper-to-bumper traffic, could rediscover the joy of driving -- and that, paradoxically, is one reason why it would be so politically difficult to actually install this technology across the country. Any policy encouraging drivers to use their axles of evil is now suspect. 
 Americans still love their own cars, but they're sick of everyone else's. The car is blamed for everything from global warming to the war in Iraq to the transformation of America into a land of strip malls and soulless subdivisions filled with fat, lonely suburbanites. Al Gore called the automobile a ''mortal threat'' that is ''more deadly than that of any military enemy.'' Cities across America, with encouragement from Washington, are adopting ''smart growth'' policies to discourage driving and promote mass transit. Three years ago, at a ribbon-cutting ceremony for a new freeway just outside Los Angeles, Gov. Gray Davis declared that it would be the last one built in the state. Standing at the cradle of car culture, he said it was time to find other ways to move people. 
 I sympathize with the critics, because I don't like even my own car. For most of my adult life I didn't even own one. I lived in Manhattan and pitied the suburbanites driving to the mall. When I moved to Washington and joined their ranks, I picked a home in smart-growth heaven, near a bike path and a subway station. Most days I skate or bike downtown, filled with righteous Schadenfreude as I roll past drivers stuck in traffic. The rest of the time I usually take the subway, and on the rare day I go by car, I hate the drive. 
 But I no longer believe that my tastes should be public policy. I've been converted by a renegade school of thinkers you might call the autonomists, because they extol the autonomy made possible by automobiles. Their school includes engineers and philosophers, political scientists like James Q. Wilson and number-crunching economists like Randal O'Toole, the author of the 540-page manifesto ''The Vanishing Automobile and Other Urban Myths.'' These thinkers acknowledge the social and environmental problems caused by the car but argue that these would not be solved -- in fact, would be mostly made worse -- by the proposals coming from the car's critics. They call smart growth a dumb idea, the result not of rational planning but of class snobbery and intellectual arrogance. They prefer to promote smart driving, which means more tolls, more roads and, yes, more cars.
 Drawing on authorities ranging from Aristotle to Walt Whitman, the autonomists argue that the car is not merely a convenience but one of history's greatest forces for good, an invention that liberated the poor from slums and workers from company towns, challenged communism, powered the civil rights movement and freed women to work outside the home. Their arguments have given me new respect for my minivan. I still don't like driving it, but now when the sound system is blaring ''Thunder Road'' -- These two lanes will take us aaanywhere -- I think Bruce Springsteen got it right. There is redemption beneath that dirty hood. 

Beautiful Sprawl
Suppose you have a choice between two similarly priced homes. One is an urban town house within walking distance of stores and mass transit; the other is in the suburbs and requires driving everywhere. Which one would you pick?
 If you chose the town house, you're in a distinct minority. Only 17 percent of Americans chose it in a national survey sponsored by the real-estate agents' and homebuilders' trade associations. The other 83 percent preferred the suburbs, which came as no surprise to the real-estate agents or others who spend time in subdivisions. For all the bad press that suburbs get in books like ''The Geography of Nowhere'' -- whose author, James Kunstler, calls America a ''national automobile slum'' -- polls repeatedly show that the vast majority of suburbanites are happy with their neighborhoods.
 You could argue that Americans are deluded because they haven't been given a reasonable alternative. Smart-growth advocates say that suburbs have flourished at the expense of cities because of government policies promoting cheap gasoline, Interstate highways and new-home construction. What if the government, instead of devastating urban neighborhoods by running expressways through them, instead lavished money on mass transit and imposed high gasoline taxes to discourage driving?
 As it happens, that experiment has already been conducted in Europe with surprisingly little effect. To American tourists who ride the subways in the carefully preserved old cities, the policies seem to have worked. But it turns out that the people who live there aren't so different from Americans. Even with $5-per-gallon gasoline, the number of cars per capita in Europe has been growing faster than in America in recent decades, while the percentage of commuters using mass transit has been falling. As the suburbs expand, Europe's cities have been losing people, too. Paris is a great place to visit, but in the past half-century it has lost one-quarter of its population.
 ''Cities are spreading virtually everywhere in the world despite all the antisprawl measures,'' says Peter Gordon, a professor at the University of Southern California School of Policy, Planning and Development. ''As soon as people have enough money, they want their car.''
 Of course, just because individuals crave cars doesn't mean that cars are good for society. Jane Holtz Kay, the author of ''Asphalt Nation: How the Automobile Took Over America and How We Can Take It Back,'' sums up the popular anxiety about the social and environmental costs of cars when she writes, ''A nation in gridlock from its auto-bred lifestyle, an environment choking from its auto exhausts, a landscape sacked by its highways has distressed Americans so much that even this go-for-it nation is posting 'No Growth' signs on development from shore to shore.'' But while Kay is right that Americans resist new development near their homes and fear the traffic it will bring, they might feel differently about sprawl if they understood it better.
 Consider some of the prevailing beliefs: 
 Sprawl traps drivers in traffic hell. It's true that highways have gotten much more congested, but the worst traffic tends to be in densely populated urban areas that haven't been building new roads, like New York and Chicago -- the kind of places hailed by smart-growth planners but now avoided by companies looking for convenient offices. During the 1990's, the number of suburban workers surpassed the number downtown. These commuters still encountered traffic jams, but by not driving downtown they could still get to work reasonably quickly. The length of the average commute, now about 25 minutes, rose just 40 seconds in the 1980's and about 2 minutes in the 1990's. Sprawl didn't trap drivers -- it gave them an escape.
 Suburban car culture traps women. Critics complain that mothers in the suburbs are sentenced to long hours chauffeuring children to malls and soccer games and piano lessons, which are tasks that do indeed require a car. But so do most of their jobs. In his book ''Edge City,'' the writer Joel Garreau traces the golden age of sprawl to the surge in women entering the work force in the 70's and 80's, when the number of cars in America doubled as developers rushed to build office parks and malls for women who didn't have time to take the bus downtown. The only way to juggle all their responsibilities was to buy a car and find a job close to the stores and schools and day-care centers near their homes. 
 Sprawl is scarring the American landscape. If by ''landscape'' you mean the pasture or forest near your home that has been paved, then sprawl does look like an abomination. Who wouldn't prefer to be surrounded by greenery, especially when you're not paying property taxes for it?
 But if you look at the big picture, America is not paving paradise. More than 90 percent of the continental United States is still open space and farmland. The major change in land use in recent decades has been the gain of 70 million acres of wilderness -- more than all the land currently occupied by cities, suburbs and exurbs, according to Peter Huber, author of ''Hard Green: Saving the Environment From the Environmentalists.'' Because agriculture has become so efficient, farmers have abandoned vast tracts of land that have reverted to nature, and rural areas have lost population as young people migrate to cities. You may not like the new homes being built for them at the edge of your town, but if preserving large ecosystems and wildlife habitat is your priority, better to concentrate people in the suburbs and exurbs rather than scatter them in the remote countryside. 
 Mass transit is the cure for highway congestion. Commuter trains and subways make sense in New York, Chicago and a few other cities, and there are other forms of transit, like express buses, that can make a difference elsewhere. (Vans offering door-to-door service are a boon to the elderly and people without cars.) But for most Americans, mass transit is impractical and irrelevant. Since 1970, transit systems have received more than $500 billion in subsidies (in today's dollars), but people have kept voting with their wheels. Transit has been losing market share to the car and now carries just 3 percent of urban commuters outside New York City. It's easy to see why from one statistic: the average commute by public transportation takes twice as long as the average commute by car.
 Anthony Downs, an economist at the Brookings Institution who favors giving more aid to transit, says the subsidies have social benefits (like helping people without cars), but he warns it will make little difference in highway congestion. O'Toole and Wendell Cox, a transportation expert and visiting fellow at the Heritage Foundation, estimate that even if Congress miraculously tripled the annual subsidy for transit, the average driver's commute would be reduced by a grand total of 22 seconds. 
 Drivers are getting a free ride. Yes, the government spends a lot more money on highways than transit, but most of that money comes out of the drivers' pockets. If you add up the costs of driving -- the car owner's costs as well as the public cost of building and maintaining highways and local streets, the salaries of police patrolling the roads -- it works out to about 20 cents per passenger mile, and drivers pay more than 19 of those cents, according to Cox. A trip on a local bus or commuter train costs nearly four times as much, and taxpayers subsidize three-quarters of that cost.
 Drivers do avoid paying some indirect costs of their cars, like the health consequences of the pollution from tailpipes. One of the most thorough attempts to measure these social costs was done by Mark Delucchi, a cost-benefit analyst at the University of California, Davis, who factored in everything from expenditures in the Persian Gulf to the cost of the real estate devoted to free parking lots. Autonomists complain that he overestimated the car's costs, but even so, his calculations show that when compared with the social costs of transit systems (like taxpayer subsidies and noise from buses), the car is at least twice as cheap per passenger mile as transit. 
 New highways just make things worse. Environmentalists and smart-growth planners say that more highways merely create more problems because of ''induced demand,'' also known as the if-you-build-it-they-will-come theory. They argue that any new stretch of highway will fill up quickly because drivers discover new uses for it. Adding new lanes or roads may ease traffic temporarily, they say, but ultimately you're doomed to become like Los Angeles.
 A new freeway does indeed attract new drivers, but that doesn't mean it's not worth building. Besides benefiting those drivers (no small thing), it eases the strain on the road network. This year's report from the Texas Transportation Institute confirms other research showing that when you take population growth into account, traffic congestion has been increasing more rapidly in the cities that haven't been building roads. The reason for Los Angeles's traffic morass is that it didn't build enough freeways, incredible as that sounds. The great symbol of sprawl is not what it seems when you compare it with other cities using the Census Bureau's definition of an ''urbanized area,'' which extends until the point where there's open countryside. By this definition, Los Angeles is the most densely populated city in America, with 7,068 persons per square mile of urbanized area. Its traffic is terrible because it built only about half the freeways originally planned, so that it now has fewer miles of freeway per capita than any other major city.
 Politicians in Los Angeles are not about to build those missing freeways anytime soon, but that doesn't mean they can't learn how to unclog the ones they have. All they have to do is drive a couple of hours south, to I-15.

The T-Word
Drivers sitting in a traffic jam outside San Diego used to glance across the median strip of I-15 at a maddening sight: car-pool lanes without any car-poolers. The lanes were so empty that engineers decided to let solo drivers share them for a price, which is displayed on electronic signs at the entrance to the lanes. A computer counts how many cars take the offer and then recalibrates the price every six minutes, raising the toll if too many cars accept, cutting it if not enough do.
 The morning I watched, the computer set a price of $1.25 at 7:10, raised it to $1.50 six minutes later, then jacked it up to $2.25 at 7:22 and added another quarter at 7:28. The $2.50 toll apparently scared off drivers, and the computer reacted by dropping the toll to $1.75, at which point traffic increased and the toll went back up to $2. As rush-hour traffic waned, the toll fell quickly, and by 8:20 the computer was willing to let drivers into the lanes for a dollar. Those who paid could drive into San Diego without slowing down even to pay the toll. It was collected by radio transmitters overhead that could read each car's FasTrak transponder (California's version of E-Z Pass) at speeds up to 120 miles per hour. 
 When this experiment began in 1996, some critics said it was unfair to create these ''Lexus lanes.'' But by now, even drivers who won't pay the toll have come to appreciate the lanes because they divert traffic from the regular highway. And while affluent drivers are more likely to pay the bill, surveys have found people of all incomes using the lanes. Most of the ones I interviewed were budget-conscious, middle-class commuters who used the free lanes when possible. But when the traffic got heavy, they considered the toll a bargain.
 ''Isn't it worth a couple of dollars to spend an extra half-hour with your family?'' said T.J. Zane, a political consultant who drives a 1997 Volkswagen Jetta. ''That's what I used to spend on a cup of coffee at Starbucks. Now I've started bringing my own coffee and using the money for the toll.'' 
 These toll lanes have become so popular that they're being extended 12 miles farther out of town, and the concept of variable tolls has become highway engineers' favorite solution to traffic jams. After decades of working on technological fixes like beam-control roads, they've turned to basic economics instead. They now see traffic jams as the equivalent of bread lines in the Soviet Union, a consequence of an unimaginative monopoly run by politicians loath to charge the market price for a valuable commodity. To be fair to the Soviet politicians, though, at least they didn't blame the public for the problem that they created. They didn't promote a smart-diet program urging people to eat less bread.
 Tollways were common in the United States until the decision in the 1950's to finance the Interstate system with gasoline taxes, which was politically appealing -- an unobtrusive tax instead of hated toll booths, an illusion of equity because everyone pays the same rate. But a driver on the Long Island Expressway at rush hour imposes a much bigger strain on the Interstate system than a Montanan on Interstate 90 at noon. Once traffic reaches a critical mass, drivers slow down so much that a four-lane expressway carries only as many cars per hour as a three-lane road with free-flowing traffic. If a computer were using tolls to manage traffic on Long Island, more drivers could speed through at rush hour. 
 The trick is persuading them to pay. Long Islanders accustomed to a free highway would resist no matter how many economists tell them that the time they're wasting in traffic jams is worth more than the tolls. Politically sensitive highway planners don't even use the T-word -- they call it ''value pricing.'' But traffic has gotten so bad that even longtime opponents of tolls, like the A.A.A. and trucking groups, now support tolls on new lanes and roads, if only because there's no other way to pay for them. New tollways are open or being built in more than a dozen cities, and there are proposals to span entire metropolitan areas with networks of what are called HOT lanes -- high-occupancy toll lanes like the ones in San Diego that would be free for buses and commuter vans but also open to paying drivers. Some would be converted car-pool lanes, and others would be created by building new roads or widening existing ones, like the beltways around Washington and Atlanta.
 ''The toll lanes in California are the prototype for the future,'' says Robert Poole of the Reason Foundation, who came up with the idea of HOT lanes a decade ago. ''Instead of giving every driver the same miserable service, there will be premium lanes with money-back guarantees for drivers and special truck lanes with stronger pavement and gentler grades and curves.'' 
 Premium service is already being offered on Route 91 express lanes, built by a private company near Anaheim, Calif., and probably the most intensely monitored road in the world. If a driver slows down anywhere along it, sensors in the pavement instantly alert engineers in a control room, and video cameras along the road swivel to give them a view of the car. When there's a problem, the road's managers guarantee help will arrive within five minutes. They keep two service crews on perpetual standby, ready to rush to the scene and change a tire, replace a fan belt or tow a car, all at no charge to the driver. The extra service pays off by keeping traffic moving and by attracting customers, particularly women, who say they're willing to pay the toll because they feel safer on the road.
 It's hard to imagine traffic ever flowing freely in New York, but engineers say anything is possible for a price. Peter Samuel, the editor of Tollroadsnews, has proposed getting trucks off the streets by building them a tunnel from New Jersey to Brooklyn and turning some of Brooklyn's railroad tracks into truck roads. Samuel I. Schwartz, who coined the term ''gridlock'' when he was chief engineer for the city's Department of Transportation, envisions tunneling underneath streets and highways to create new lanes, and he wants to unclog Manhattan's streets by charging tolls, as London Mayor Ken Livingston did with his streets.
 Some politicians still object to tolls as unfair to the poor, but the opposition seems to be dwindling. Democrats in Congress joined with Republicans in passing changes in the current highway bill to encourage new toll lanes. ''If we want to expand road capacity to meet the growing population, we have to rely on tolls,'' says Robert Atkinson of the Progressive Policy Institute, the research arm of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. He sees tolls as a progressive tax system: the more affluent drivers pay for new toll lanes while less affluent drivers get a free benefit because the existing roads become less congested, and bus riders get to use the new express lanes without paying for them. 
 Environmentalists have also supported tolls, but generally with a fatal caveat. They like using tolls on existing highways to reduce congestion, because fewer idling cars means less gasoline burned and less air pollution. The Environmental Defense group helped lead the successful fight to reduce congestion on the Hudson River crossings by raising the tolls at rush hour. The Sierra Club supports converting part of the Washington Beltway into HOT lanes. But propose building new tollways -- the ones most acceptable to drivers and politicians -- and you can expect lawsuits and public outcry over environmental degradation.
 To highway engineers, these objections are reasonable but not insurmountable. Despite the huge increase in driving in recent decades, the air has gotten notably cleaner by most measures in most places because cars emit so much less pollution, and they'll keep getting cleaner. Noise can be mitigated; roads can be carefully built without destroying ecosystems. Autonomists insist that there could be protections guaranteeing minimum levels of air quality and noise for people near new roads, but they haven't made much headway against their enemies, because this war is about much more than the environment. It's about two visions of the Radiant City.

The Car-Culture War
''[They will] only encourage the common people to move about needlessly.'' the Duke of Wellington, on early steam railroads

Senator John Kerry now disavows the 50-cent-a-gallon gas tax he once supported, but it's an idea that might bring the car's friends and foes together. A gas tax appeals not just to environmentalists but also to many economists, who see it as the most efficient means of reducing fuel consumption as well as a simple way to make drivers pay for the social costs of their cars. It's not politically realistic, given the Republican aversion to new taxes, but could we at least work out a hypothetical deal? I went to a dozen of the leaders on both sides of the car debate with a grand compromise: penalize drivers with a new 50-cent gas tax, maybe even a dollar, and in return environmentalists would support new toll lanes and roads that could be used free of charge by commuter vans and buses.
 The autonomists' first reaction was horror -- partly at the price drivers would be paying, but mainly at the thought of all that revenue going to federal legislators eager to spend it on suburban monorails. The autonomists didn't want any of the money going to Washington even if much of it paid for new roads, which they prefer to finance with tolls. But some of them finally agreed to a gas tax if all the new revenue was refunded to the public through tax cuts, tax credits and other means. That way people who don't drive much would get back more than they paid in gas taxes. Less affluent people tend to drive less than average, so they would come out ahead, and there could be further help to the poor in the form of travel vouchers that could be used for either transit tickets or car expenses.
 But when I took the deal to the other side, they wouldn't go for it. ''I believe in no more highways, intellectually and environmentally,'' said Jane Holtz Kay, the ''Asphalt Nation'' author. Others said they weren't necessarily against any new pavement, but they set so many preconditions -- new rail projects, new smart-growth zoning, whole new kinds of communities -- that the roads would not be built for decades, if ever.
 ''Our first order of business is to shape our cities and regions to provide viable alternatives to the car,'' said Peter Calthorpe, a ''new urbanist'' architect and a leader of the smart-growth movement. ''Only then can you begin to use taxes to set up an incentive system that levels the playing field.'' Neha Bhatt, the coordinator of the Sierra Club's Challenge to Sprawl Campaign, doubted a gas tax would do much good. ''People will pay to keep driving,'' she said, ''because the harsh reality in America today is that you need to transport yourself pretty long distances. We need a more holistic approach to planning.'' 
 But if people are willing to pay to keep driving, why are they and their cars any more objectionable than the commoners who offended the Duke of Wellington with their desire to ride the railroad? Intellectuals' distaste for the car and suburbia, and their fondness for rail travel and cities, are an odd inverse of the old aristocratic attitudes. The suburbs were quite fashionable when only the upper classes could afford to live there. Nineteenth-century social workers dreamed of sending crowded urbanites out to healthy green spaces. But when middle-class workers made it out there, they were mocked first for their ''little boxes made of ticky-tacky'' and later for their McMansions. Land Rovers and sports cars were chic when they were driven to country estates, but they became antisocial gas-guzzlers once they appeared in subdivisions. 
 ''Aristocratic attitudes toward mobility for the masses haven't really changed from the Duke of Wellington to the Duchess of Huffington,'' says Sam Kazman of the Competitive Enterprise Institute, referring to Arianna Huffington, one of the wealthy Hollywood activists behind the Detroit Project, which has been running ads against gas-guzzlers. (She and a colleague in this campaign to save energy, Laurie David, the wife of the comedian Larry David, have inspired a new term: Gulfstream liberal, in honor of the jet their set uses. Critics like to point out that on a cross-country trip, it burns 10 times more fuel per passenger than an airliner, and twice as much as a Hummer.)
 The autonomists have been losing the public-relations war, but they're trying to fight back. O'Toole has founded the American Dream Coalition to do battle with what he calls the ''congestion coalition,'' his term for opponents of new roads. The autonomists collect stories of smart-growth problems, especially from Portland, Ore., which became planners' poster city by building light-rail lines, eschewing highways and severely restricting suburban development. But nearly 90 percent of its commuters still drive, and highway congestion increased in Portland more than any other American city in the 15 years after the first light-rail line opened. Meanwhile, housing prices rose sharply, making Portland one of the less-affordable cities for home buyers.
 But the autonomists want to do more than play defense. They want Americans to love the car again. They quote Walt Whitman from ''Leaves of Grass'': ''Lo, soul! seest thou not God's purpose from the first?/The earth to be spanned, connected by net-work.'' They cite historians like Macaulay, who observed in the 19th century that ''every improvement of the means of locomotion benefits mankind morally and intellectually, as well as materially.'' They celebrate the car's role in the famous Montgomery bus boycott, when blacks shunning the segregated transit system relied on carpools and an informal taxi service. The police, aided by the laid-off bus workers, tried to stop them by enforcing minor traffic violations -- Martin Luther King was arrested for going 30 miles per hour in a 25-mile-per-hour zone -- but the drivers persisted and triumphed. The private car also became a popular symbol of liberation behind the Iron Curtain. When Communist leaders imported the movie ''Grapes of Wrath'' to illustrate the evils of capitalism, audiences took away a different revolutionary lesson. Watching the dispossessed farmers head for California, they were amazed that even unemployed Americans owned cars and could drive wherever they wanted to find work.
 In an essay called ''Autonomy and Automobility,'' Loren E. Lomasky, a professor of political philosophy at the University of Virginia, invokes Aristotle's concept of the ''self-mover'' to argue that the ability to move about and see the world is the crucial distinction between higher and lower forms of life and is ultimately the source of what Kant would later call humans' moral autonomy. ''The automobile is, arguably, rivaled only by the printing press (and perhaps within a few more years by the microchip) as an autonomy-enhancing contrivance of technology,'' he writes. The planners determined to tame sprawl, Lomasky argues, are the intellectual heirs of Plato and his concept of the philosopher-king who would impose order on the unenlightened masses.
 They are at least the heirs of Le Corbusier, the architect who dreamed of cramming millions of urbanites into an array of huge towers in a meticulously planned community he called the Radiant City. His particular designs are now out of fashion, but not his propensity for master planning. The enthusiasts for smart growth want regional or statewide authorities to regulate land use. Their goal of restoring old-fashioned city neighborhoods sounds noble, but those old neighborhoods and their transit systems were not built by planners at regional authorities imposing their visions of how people should live and travel. They were built by housing developers and private streetcar and subway companies responding to their customers' desires in an era when politicians were content to guide development with fairly simple zoning codes. It was only later, in the middle of the 20th century, that urban planning became a bureaucratized profession with sweeping ambitions, like the ''urban renewal'' projects of the 1960's and 70's that mostly served to hasten the urbanites' flight to suburbs. Now that the planners have followed them to suburban counties, Americans are heading to smaller communities in the exurbs. Their idea of the Radiant City is one that radiates beyond the reach of the master planners. 
 Many of those who fled, like me, did so reluctantly. They understand the appeal of stoops and corner stores and running into neighbors on the walk home from dinner. Some of them, especially the young and the childless, are moving back to cities, and once again there are private developers ready to meet their desires, which now run toward lofts and historic town houses with modern kitchens. But for most middle-class families, the ideal of city life conflicts with the reality of their own lives. Even if they're willing to do without a yard, how can they afford to live in a decent neighborhood within easy commute of their jobs? How will they go shopping on a rainy day with a child in tow? Where will the children go to school?
 If they have enough determination or money, or grandparents willing to spring for private-school tuition, they may stay in the city. But otherwise they will head to the 'burbs or beyond. Once they get their home, they will probably sign petitions to stop sprawl, but they will shop at Target. As they're stuck in traffic, reclined on leather seats listening to a Lou Reed riff or a passage from ''Bergdorf Blondes,'' they may get nostalgic for city life. Idling behind a Chevy Suburban, they may forget the crush of the subway at rush hour and feel trapped in that national automobile slum. But if someone would just give them an open highway, they could crank up ''Thunder Road'' and realize, once again, that it was the car that set them free. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Masood kamandy)
(Photographs by Stacy Kranitz)
 Not paving paradise: Despite all the pavement, more than 90 percent of the country still consists of open space and in recent decades there has been a gain of 70 million acres of wilderness. (Photographs by Stacy Kranitz, except top row, left and center, Kevin Cooley, and middle row, center, and, bottom row, right, Masood Kamandy.)(Lettering by Steve Sanford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); IRAQ WAR (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (50%); AL GORE (50%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



538 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; TATTOOED WARRIORS: The Next Generation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4541 words

HEADLINE: Shuttling Between Nations, Latino Gangs Confound the Law

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON; Dan Alder contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras 

 BODY:
Christian Antunez chokes back a scream as the nurse sticks a needle above his left eyebrow. ''Ay, Mama!'' he shouts. ''It really hurts.''
 ''Don't move,'' the nurse tells him, sticking him again and again with anesthesia.
 He pleads for a break. At least four other men, all covered with tattoos, are taking needles around him, on their arms and legs, backs and chests. The whining rises from the chairs. One man has a tattoo on his scalp. Another has one over his top lip. Yet another on his neck. Mr. Antunez, 22, has them everywhere. 
 The men have all come to this makeshift clinic in a neighborhood ravaged by street violence for a desperate and disfiguring kind of healing: to have their gang tattoos removed. 
 ''Society thinks we are monsters,'' Mr. Antunez said. ''The police want us dead. That's why we do this. If we do not take off these tattoos, we will never be able to live in peace.''
 The pain, he said, seems a small price for a new life. ''I dream of being clean, even if it means being scarred.'' 
 They are gang members, known here as ''maras,'' after a species of swarming ants. Indeed, over the last decade gangs have spread like a scourge across Central America, Mexico and the United States, setting off a catastrophic crime wave that has turned dirt-poor neighborhoods into combat zones and an equally virulent crackdown that has left thousands of gang members dead, in hiding, in jail or heading to the United States.
 The authorities estimate there are 70,000 to 100,000 gang members across Central America and Mexico. In the last decade, gangs have killed thousands of people, sowing new fear in a region still struggling to overcome civil wars that ended just a decade ago. Gangs have replaced guerrillas as public enemy No. 1. 
 The presidents of Honduras and El Salvador have called the gangs as big a threat to national security as terrorism is to the United States. They have revived old counterinsurgency strategies and adopted zero-tolerance laws known as Mano Dura, which loosely translates as ''firm hand,'' that bypass basic rules of due process and allow them to send young men to prison for nothing more than a gang tattoo. 
 Instead of offering reassurance, official campaigns inflame public fear. And in the last year, human rights investigators have begun to report alarming increases in the numbers of young men killed by the police and vigilantes.
 No one denies that gang violence requires a tough response. No one -- not even the nurses who remove his tattoos -- feel sympathy for men with brutal histories, like Mr. Antunez. But many human rights advocates and community leaders worry that the aggressive measures governments are taking against gangs have not solved the problem as much as they have spread it.
 Thousands of gang members are fleeing north, moving with and preying on the waves of illegal migrants who travel to the United States, which is taking aggressive measures of its own and deporting thousands of gang members on immigration violations. The effect is to churn the gangs throughout the region.
 As gang members move, the gang culture moves with them. Police departments across the United States call the gangs a top crime problem. In January, some 72 departments met to discuss the issue in Los Angeles. Another gang summit meeting by law enforcement authorities will be held in Washington on Thursday.
 In Guatemala, the authorities say gun violence will kill 1,000 more people this year, compared with two years ago. Gangs, they say, will commit 80 percent of those killings.
 The Mexican state of Chiapas, which shares a lawless border with Guatemala, has become another gang hunting ground. Gangs strike in parks and bus stations. During the last year, gang members reportedly killed more than 70 migrants stowed away on northbound freight trains.
 In a rare display of solidarity last year, the governments of Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Panama and Mexico signed an agreement to begin exploring ways to collaborate in the fight against gangs. They stopped short of adopting measures as tough as those in Honduras and El Salvador. 
 But in countries crippled by official corruption and impunity, the crackdowns have weakened the rule of law as much as they have stemmed the rise in crime. 
 Prisons are filled way beyond capacity with young men waiting months before they are formally charged. Overcrowded cellblocks have turned into death traps, with hundreds of gang members killed in suspicious riots and fires. 
 Some gang members, picked up by the police, never make it to jail. Their battered bodies litter streets and fields. Human rights organizations, including Amnesty International and the Honduras's National Commission for Human Rights, have reported incidents of gang members being kidnapped, tortured and killed by the same kinds of secret security forces responsible for the disappearances of hundreds of suspected leftists during the civil war years.
 Commissioner Ramon Custodio has described the killings as a ''slow social cleansing,'' often involving youth with no criminal record.
 Reports by Amnesty International and the State Department have echoed similar warnings.
 ''It seems to me that this country is losing, in great measure, the democratic advances that have cost us so much,'' said Bertha Oliva, director of the Committee for the Relatives of the Disappeared, a group formed at the height of the cold war. ''In the 80's, this country said it was O.K. to kill off its political enemies because they were antisocial. We say the same today about gang members.''

Crackdown Spawns an Exodus
 The two largest gangs, the Mara Salvatrucha and the Mara 18, began on the streets of Los Angeles. The Salvatruchas gang was started by the children of refugees from United States-sponsored civil wars in Central America of the 1980's. Young people started the gangs as support networks, even social clubs. 
 Mara 18, linked to Los Angeles's 18th Street gang, which was started by Mexican immigrants in the 1970's, then began recruiting Central American refugees to challenge the Salvatruchas. 
 Fist fights with rival groups turned to gun fights. Gun fights led to declarations of war.
 Then in a crackdown by United States immigration officials, tens of thousands of gang members were sent back to their home countries. At the peak of the program in the mid-1990's, some 40,000 criminal illegal immigrants were sent back each year.
 Suddenly, one of the poorest corners of the world, which struggles to meet its people's basic needs, was burdened by a superpower's crime plague.
 Entire neighborhoods were plundered by violent turf wars waged by volatile young men armed with machetes and homemade pipe guns, called chimbas. Homicide rates, especially among men under 30, soared. Law-abiding citizens lived like prisoners in their own homes. Armies and law enforcement agencies that had been scaled down for what was supposed to be a new era of peace were forced to build back up.
 Now, with the extraordinary measures by Central American governments driving them away, the rampage has come full circle. The sheer force of illegal immigration has made the Mara Salvatruchas and 18th Street two of the fastest-growing gangs in the United States. 
 They are driving crime in cities like Los Angeles, Chicago and the suburbs around Washington, police officials say. They have expanded from their big city bases to make violent debuts in places like Durham, N.C., Omaha, Neb., and Nassau County, N.Y. 
 A national study by Northeastern University found that while overall crime dropped by more than 20 percent from 1999 to 2002, gang homicides increased by more than 50 percent.
 Some of the most shocking violence has played out in the suburbs around Washington, where members of Mara Salvatruchas have been blamed for hacking the hands of a 16-year old rival with a machete, and stabbing a pregnant 17-year-old who was an informant in murder investigations.
 Metropolitan Los Angeles, with a population almost equal to that of Honduras, remains the world capital of street gangs, with an estimated 700 different cliques and more than 110,000 gang members. City and county police officials say half of all homicides there are gang related.
 Chief William J. Bratton of the Los Angeles Police Department has described gang members as ''domestic terrorists'' who have received little attention from a society preoccupied with Al Qaeda since 9/11. In speeches across the country, he has urged other police departments to make gangs their top law enforcement priority and demand increased federal support. 
 Like his counterparts in Honduras and El Salvador, Chief Bratton has expanded the enforcement of antigang policies that have succeeded in reducing crime but that have also set off criticism among civil rights lawyers and advocates of immigration. 
 He has brought back special gang units that were disbanded in the 1990's, when independent inquiries found officers responsible for preying on communities they were assigned to protect. During the last two years, the City Council expanded the use of so-called injunction laws, which make it a crime, within strictly defined boundaries, for gang members to gather publicly, even in pairs. 
 In some injunction zones, gang members are even prohibited from using pagers and cellphones, said Commander Richard Roupoli of the Los Angeles Police Department's special operations bureau. Rocky Delgadillo, the Los Angeles city attorney, defended the injunction laws. ''Yes, we are impinging on their civil liberties, that's the whole idea,'' he said. ''We do it all the time in our society for safety reasons.''
 ''People deserve protection,'' he added. ''And I believe gang members are terrorizing our communities.''
 Michael R. Hillmann , a deputy chief at the Los Angeles Police Department, said in an interview that ''our gangs are like warring tribes,'' and that the police department's efforts to quell them have been so successful that Marine commanders assigned to take control of trouble spots like Falluja, Iraq, have visited Los Angeles to learn from them.

Overflowing Jails
 To step into a Honduran penitentiary can feel like making a wrong turn into a really bad American neighborhood.
 Gangsta rap pumps raw and angry. Maximum-security perimeters are covered with graffiti. Restless young men pace like caged tigers. They wear baggy jeans, shaved heads and hardened stares.
 Their bodies are tattooed with serpentine numbers and letters that look scrawled by the hand of the Devil. They greet each other with strange hand signs and call each other ''homies.'' And when they introduce themselves, they turn on the bravado and use nicknames like Sly, Killer and Lucifer.
 ''Outside they'll tell you we are not angels, that we cut people up and leave their heads in the street,'' said Lucifer, whose cold stare and meticulously groomed goatee made it clear how he got his nickname. ''But we are not monsters.
 ''We only hurt people that try to hurt us.''
 The federal penitentiary at Tamara, about a half hour outside the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa, was built in the 1990's for a maximum population of 1,800 inmates. The population now is almost double that. 
 Police Inspector Nazir Lopez Orellana helps run the prison with barely enough money to pay for food -- about 46 cents a prisoner a day -- much less adequate security, recreation or rehabilitation. The key to controlling the surging numbers of gang members, he said, is to keep members of each gang on opposite sides of the prison.
 In May, there were 201 Mara Salvatruchas at the prison, and 237 members of Mara 18. It is a population that lives by a mysterious code of conduct, he said, with complex emotional needs. And he has no real means to help them.
 ''We want to make very clear we don't have the capacity to give them the treatment they need,'' he said.
 One of the inmates introduces himself in English as Ricky Alexander Zelaya. He said he was a native of Honduras, a product of California corrections facilities and living an international nightmare. 
 He is a beefy man, wearing a San Diego Chargers T-shirt and tattoos so elaborate they look more like murals. The police here arrested him, he said, for stealing a car and carrying an illegal machine gun. But he has been locked up lots of other times.
 Marlon Enrique Fuentes pulls up a plastic stool and sits beside Mr. Zelaya. He looks like most of the Mara 18 gangsters in this cellblock: desperate for a decent meal, a hot shower and a good night's sleep. 
 He is distinguished by the tattoos on his face. The words ''Try Me'' are tattooed on his right cheek. The words ''Cry Me'' are tattooed on the left.
 What does it mean? Mr. Fuentes lowers his head, puts on his gang face and switches from Spanish to English to answer. 
 ''It means I don't play,'' he said, glaring, and then smiling as if trying to take the sting out of his words. 
 The bitterness comes back when he begins to talk about his life. Mr. Fuentes said his mother died before he began to walk. He said his father spent all their money on liquor and prostitutes, and as soon as he was able, Mr. Fuentes ran away and ventured alone across five borders to reach relatives in Los Angeles. He said his aunt took him into her home, but never her heart. 
 ''She always did things for her daughter over me,'' Mr. Fuentes said. The unhappy family lived in a poor section of Hollywood, where Mr. Fuentes said he found respect and purpose in a gang called 18th Street
 By the time he became a teenager, he said, he was selling dope and taking part in drive-by shootings, bouncing between the streets and jail, until the United States sent him and a flood of other criminal migrants back home.
 In 2001, leading Honduran forensics experts say, the murder rate in Tegucigalpa soared to 905 murders from 581 the year before. The country was still crippled from the ravages of Hurricane Mitch. The nation's average annual per capita income was less than $3,000, with two-thirds of the population living in poverty. But polls showed that crime had replaced poverty as the nation's No.1 concern. 
 In the 2002 presidential race, voters elected a powerful businessman, Ricardo Maduro, a Stanford-educated supermarket mogul, whose only son had been killed in a kidnapping attempt. He promised a stiff crackdown against crime, and described street gangs as Honduras's own Al Qaeda. 
 The president called in the army to help the 8,000 officers of the National Police to wage war against an estimated 30,000 maras. To help prosecutors get around the legal obstacles of proving that gang members were responsible for crimes, the Honduran Congress tweaked the penal code.
 With overwhelming public support, it changed Article 332 to make it illegal to belong to a street gang. The reform was modeled after laws used in Europe to combat violent Nazi gangs. 
 In Honduras, the crime is called ''illicit association,'' and for it gang members can receive 6 to 9 years in jail, and gang leaders 9 to 12.

Marked for Arrest
 Charges are brought almost entirely by the police. Tattoos are the most important proof. Sentences can hinge as much on the size of a gang member's tattoos as on his criminal record, or lack of one.
 Several officers in the Honduran National Police, who presented themselves as ''gang experts,'' said that the larger the tattoo, the more dangerous the gang member.
 That seems to be the law enforcement theory that landed Walter Manuel Nolasco in Tamara.
 Long and lanky with a mustache that looks more like whiskers, Mr. Nolasco is known as El Gato, Spanish for cat. He acknowledges that he is a member of the Mara 18. He lifts his T-shirt to show the number 18 tattooed on his chest like numbers on a football jersey. For a Honduran court, that was enough to find Mr. Nolasco guilty of ''illicit association against the internal security of the state,'' and to sentence him, a 20-year-old father, to 10 years in prison.
 Mr. Nolasco was one of the first gang members to be arrested and convicted under the reformed Article 332. Documents from his trial and sentencing give a glimpse at how the law works.
 He was arrested on Aug. 28, 2003, in a commando-style raid as he was just getting out of bed with his pregnant wife. Mr. Nolasco did not have time to grab a shirt.
 The officers saw his tattoos: a turkey and a gangster's face on his right arm, a Nike slash on his back, and the number 18 on his chest. They found photos of Mr. Nolasco making hand signs. They looked under the bed and found an AK-47. 
 At his trial, the court called in a ''protected gang expert,'' to explain what Mr. Nolasco's tattoos meant. 
 The witness was not identified in court documents, but he told the court he had received foreign training, most likely in the United States, where the Maras were born, in street gangs' secret lexicon, and once had infiltrated a gang.
 It was the No. 18 on his chest that marked Mr. Nolasco as a gang member, the witness said, telling the court that such tattoos have ''special characteristics and are utilized by gang members to identify themselves as members of the Mara 18.'' 
 The witness also said, ''It is not just anyone who wears a tattoo linked to gangs, but someone who is already a member and who has had to fulfill an assigned task, generally, commit a crime.''
 He pointed out that the ''size and the placement'' of a tattoo were ''linked to the member's level of commitment to the organization.'' From reviewing photos of the defendant, the witness concluded that Mr. Nolasco ''carries a certain level of leadership, is firm, consistent, has some say and commands his barrio.''
 Mr. Nolasco was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Now, his mind flashed to a daughter who would grow up without him. 
 ''I am not going to be there to take her to school, not for a long time,'' he said.
 Some prisoners, like Alan Anthony Carrasco, never make it out.
 The 24-year-old Mr. Carrasco was being held in a prison in Honduras's second-largest city, San Pedro Sula, on charges of murder and illicit association.
 In May, Mr. Carrasco was killed with 107 other Mara Salvatruchas in a fire that the authorities said was caused by faulty wiring in an air-conditioning unit. Guards at the prison said the heat from the fire was so intense that they could not open the door to the cellblock for more than 45 minutes.
 Prisoners who survived the fire, however, tell a different story. They say that the guards never tried to rescue them and that they used dumbbells to break the locks on the doors to save themselves.
 ''Their plan is to put us all in jail and then set the jails on fire,'' said Gustavo Olivera, a 26-year-old gang member who survived the fire. ''We want to change. We are fathers and husbands. We want to work to give our families good homes. But the government does not want that.''
 Antony Javier Torres agreed. ''The government demonizes us for political purposes,'' he said. ''We are worth more to them dead than alive.''
 A year earlier at a different prison, the authorities determined that guards were responsible for a massacre.
 Sixty-eight people, most of them members of Mara 18, died in a fire at a prison called El Porvenir. The authorities at the prison said the gang members shot other prisoners and then barricaded themselves in their cellblock and set a suicidal fire.
 An investigation by a presidential commission, however, found that 59 of the victims were stabbed, shot and burned to death by guards and soldiers. Some, the authorities say, were gunned down as they ran out of the fire with their hands in the air.
 President Maduro promised a ''profound transformation'' of the nation's prison system.
 Little has changed. Meanwhile, relatives of dead inmates remain haunted by confusion.
 Outside a tiny cinderblock house in the Chamalecon neighborhood, Alan Anthony Carrasco's relatives gathered next to a pile of wood, cut in long, thin sheets.
 The government had sent a casket to help the family meet the costs of a funeral, they said. But the casket was so flimsy it collapsed.
 Mr. Carrasco's parents look shell-shocked. Margarito Carrasco and Aida Rodriguez said they knew their son was a member of the Mara Salvatrucha. They thought jail was their last hope to save him.
 ''I had lost control over him,'' Mr. Carrasco, a construction worker, recalls of his son. ''I told him not to come home anymore after 10. But he came home after 10, then 11, then 12, then he stopped coming home.''
 Mr. Carrasco's mother, Ms. Rodriguez, said, ''I thought at least, in jail, he was safer than on the streets.'' 
 The elder Mr. Carrasco said: ''It's fair for the police to send people to jail who commit crimes. But they should not send them to their death.''
 ''My son was paying for his crimes,'' he added. ''There was no reason to kill him.''
 Ms. Rodriguez said, ''I don't know who to blame -- the gangs or the police.''

Enforcement With an Iron Hand
 It is an atmosphere that feels frighteningly familiar to veteran human rights leaders like Ramon Custodio. 
 In the 1980's, Mr. Custodio was one of the few who dared to denounce the government attacks against suspected leftists. Hundreds of Honduran men and women were kidnapped, tortured and killed by a secret military unit called Battalion 3-16. Many remain missing.
 Now it is young men with tattoos who are reported missing, or found dead in Honduras. Human rights groups have reported numerous incidents of plainclothes officers roaming in unmarked cars and ambushing gang members in broad daylight.
 ''The state claims that the gangs are terrorizing society, and they are responding with terror,'' Mr. Custodio said. ''The pattern today is just the same as before.''
 Honduras's minister of security is especially sensitive to such criticism. He is the nephew of the late Gen. Rafael Alvarez, the founder of Battalion 3-16.
 In an interview, he said human rights leaders were wrong to compare the past and present. His agency is understaffed and ill equipped, he said. It should have at least three times its current level of 8,000 officers and 400 vehicles.
 Still, with support from the military it has made significant progress in their fight against crime.
 Kidnappings, he said, have dropped from 47 cases in 2000 to 9 cases in 2003. Car thefts have gone down by 25 percent over the same period, he said.
 Until the reforms to the penal code, he said, the agency had not been able to make a real dent in gang-related killings. Gang members were arrested, he said, but usually released within 24 hours because victims would not come forward to file charges.
 The new law, he said, has given the police a stronger hand to combat gangs. He rejects accusations of systematic abuses.
 Honduran human rights activists, he said, ''have not evolved because they continue with the same discourse, because there is no longer an ideological struggle like there was in the 1980's.''
 ''This is an evolved police force,'' he added. 
 Oscar A. Gamez Bonilla was supposed to be the model Honduran police officer. He had been appointed last year to establish a precinct in Rivera Hernandez, a settlement of some 130,000 people and considered one of the most violent in the country.
 His mission, he said, was to carry out community policing strategies, the soft side of the nation's tough campaign against crime. He said, in an interview, that he would prevent crime by providing counseling and support to struggling parents to stop gangs where they start, in broken homes. 
 ''This is a change of attitude, a change in philosophy,'' he said. Two weeks later, the pilot program had fallen into disgrace. Inspector Gamez and two subordinates were arrested and charged with kidnapping, torturing and murdering a 16-year-old and 19-year-old suspected of stealing guns from the precinct. 
 One victim, a newspaper vendor named Juan Manuel Aguilar, was beaten to death in front of his father, also named Juan Manuel.
 ''I told the police where to find my son, because they said they wanted to question him,'' agonized the elder Mr. Aguilar in an interview. ''They did not do that. They went to kill him.''

'The Immigration Hammer'
 President Maduro estimates that about 1,000 gang members have fled Honduras since he began the tough measures of Mano Dura. Human rights activists say the number is much higher.
 With them travels news about the government's antigang campaign, igniting outrage and panic from Tegucigalpa to Los Angeles to Washington. 
 In May, the leaders of a gang rehabilitation organization, called Homies Unidos, traveled to El Salvador and Honduras to talk to government officials and gang members about the impact of new law enforcement efforts. 
 Tom Hayden, a former California state senator, a well-known activist and the author of a new book about gangs titled ''Street Wars: Gangs and the Future of Violence,'' went along on the trip. Later, he declared the deportations of gang members equivalent to death sentences, and contended that United States law specifically discouraged deporting anyone who faced the threat of torture or death back home. 
 An increasing number of gang members are seeking asylum in the United States. Still, the federal government continues the deportations that started this cycle of violence 10 years ago. From March 2003 to February 2004, the United States deported more than 78,000 criminal illegal immigrants. More than 7,000 of them were deported to Honduras from 2000 to 2003. Another 2,000 were deported in the same period to El Salvador.
 John Torres, deputy assistant director for smuggling and public safety investigations in Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said immigration laws were devastating to gangs like the Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street, which are dominated by foreign-born members.
 Convicted criminals who were deported from the United States and returned, he said, could be sent to prison for as long as 10 years.
 ''The immigration hammer is particularly strong because we can use it to put people in jail for long periods of time on charges that are not hard to prove,'' Mr. Torres said. ''We don't have to prove that they committed a murder. We don't have to prove they committed an aggravated assault. We don't have to prove they committed an armed robbery. We just have to prove that they were deported and that they are back.''
 Civil rights lawyers contend that unless law enforcement efforts are accompanied by programs to deal with the social and economic forces that draw young people to gangs, crackdowns and deportations are likely to have little more effect than to keep gang members moving in circles; back and forth across borders, in and out of prison.
 Still, every Wednesday a chartered jet carries a new load of deportees from the United States to Tegucigalpa.
 As they landed back in Honduras, most looked like ordinary workers who had migrated to the United States in search of work. Jorge Omar Potter, 36, wore a muscle shirt and a Roman numeral XVIII, for the Mara 18 gang, on his bicep.
 ''Don't you have another shirt?'' asked a counselor as he welcomed Mr. Potter.
 He had been living in Hollywood since 1982, but stared silently.
 ''Things have changed a lot since you were home,'' the counselor warned him. ''We have to get you something to wear. You'll won't even make it as far as the bus station with that tattoo.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marlon Enrique Fuentes, deported by the U.S. and jailed in Honduras, displays his Los Angeles gang ties with tattoos: XVIII, Cry Me and Try Me. (Photo by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A nurse in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, begins to remove Christian Antunez's gang tattoos. ''If we do not take off these tattoos, we will never be able to live in peace,'' he said.
Ricky Alexander Zelaya was jailed in California for gang activity. After his deportation, he wound up in a Honduran prison. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
Los Angeles police officers recently questioned Gerson Ramos, a gang member, in Hollywood to determine whether he was meeting the conditions of his probation.
 Aida Rodriguez weeps as her grandson, Eric Carrasco, holds a photograph of her son Alan Anthony Carrasco, a gang member who was killed in a prison fire in Honduras. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); RIOTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); DUE PROCESS (69%); CIVIL WAR (69%); TERRORISM (69%); PRISONS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (59%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (50%) Crime and Criminals; Gangs; Tattoos; Freedom and Human Rights; Crime and Criminals; Illegal Aliens; Surveys and Series; Crime and Criminals

PERSON: Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) HONDURAS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); EL SALVADOR (92%); PANAMA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%) Latin America; Mexico; Honduras; El Salvador; Guatemala; Panama

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



539 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Novice Learns the Hard Lessons Of Patience and Perseverance

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
J. R. WILHEIM had one criterion for his new place -- it had to be ''nicer'' than his old one.
 The old one was a kind of rooming house -- a ''Grade A, U.S.D.A. Prime dump'' in Washington Heights -- the kind of place you take ''when you're unemployed and need any toehold in the city desperately,'' said Mr. Wilheim, who found it last winter through that ubiquitous bulletin board of the Internet set, Craigslist.
 At that point, he needed any place to live so he could get a job so he could afford a nicer place to live. After graduating from Columbia University in 2003, Mr. Wilheim -- who goes by his initials, which stand for Jeffrey Ross -- went home to Wichita, Kan., where his parents live. But he returned to New York City last winter, planning to get a paralegal job. 
 Through Craigslist, he found the furnished room in an apartment with four bedrooms and five residents. 
 He hated the air shaft view, the lack of a living room, and the busy bathroom. ''One night I woke up at 5 a.m. and there was a line for the bathroom,'' he said. ''Someone was in there and another one was waiting.''
 His rent was $570 a month, with a $20 discount for paying cash. ''It was a lowlife place and I didn't want to stay there if I could afford something better,'' he said.
 His parents had been sending him $1,200 a month to live on while he looked for a job -- but once he started working in June, he was on his own, and he began looking to spend around $1,000.
 ''My income more than doubled, so I was willing to double what I was paying in rent,'' he said. 
 He figured that a roommate situation would allow for something both affordable and nice. Besides, with his starting-job salary and student loans, it would be hard to get his name on a lease. Still, eager as he was to leave the furnished room, he didn't want to rush into anything. ''I had the opportunity to find something I liked, as opposed to something I had to take,'' he said. ''I had done that the first time around.'' 
 He again went the Craigslist route. On his posting, he described himself as a ''23-year-old Jewish nonsmoking male'' who was ''pretty laid-back, quiet, clean, easy to get along with.'' He sought a ''nicer place'' in Manhattan or western Brooklyn. 
 Craigslist was bursting with possibilities. But everything dissolved quickly. About two-thirds of the people who posted a listing wanted a female roommate. About two-thirds that he responded to didn't reply to his e-mail messages. One person canceled his appointment to see the place. Another wasn't home at the designated time, and then never answered the phone.
 A few times, he was not chosen as the roommate. This was new to him -- he was used to places that were ''not sufficiently desirable'' to generate much interest and that took the first person who came along. 
 In hindsight, he realized he should have pursued some possibilities more aggressively. ''I didn't know how to play the game,'' he said. ''I should have put myself forward more, but I was afraid of being obnoxious.''
 There were also plenty of apartments that simply weren't nice enough. In one case, an engaged couple was renting an extra bedroom. ''I'm not sure I wanted to be a third wheel in that kind of relationship,'' he said. In another, the bedroom was partitioned by a curtain. ''I don't understand why they think they can get away with this,'' he said, ''like, I'm not going to notice it's not even a real room?'' 
 He was souring on Craigslist. It was consuming all of his Sundays and yielding only frustration. But one day, it yielded 272 Willoughby Avenue in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. 
 Over Labor Day weekend, he received an e-mail message from Myung Kim, a senior studying industrial design at Pratt. He and a classmate, Marko Savanovic, were on a roommate hunt of their own.
 By late August, the two were worried. Disturbingly, they had turned down several places that seemed too expensive but that in hindsight were great deals. They ended up renting a three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment for $2,100, planning to share it with a third roommate, who dropped out when he got his own place.
 ''We were scrambling to have someone fill the void,'' said Mr. Kim, whose Craigslist posting noted that the new roommate would pay a third of the broker's fee, or $1,000 on a fee of $3,000. Someone backed out the day he was to move in.
 ''At that point, we were willing to take anybody as long as they would pay the rent and not flake out,'' Mr. Kim said.
 When Mr. Wilheim came to check out the place, he seemed ''reliable, honest and cool,'' Mr. Savanovic said.
 Mr. Wilheim turned over a check for the fee in exchange for the keys, and moved in the following weekend. He pays $800 for the master bedroom and bathroom. (The others pay $650 each.)
 ''So far, I am absolutely loving it,'' Mr. Wilheim said. He revels in all the things he was missing before, like a real living room, lots of closets, an eat-in kitchen, pleasant roommates, the morning sun and one true surprise -- great cellphone reception. 
 The only downside is the 40-minute commute, ''but coming home to this place makes me feel like I can deal with all of the other stuff in my life a lot better,'' he said.
 He plans to paint and buy furniture. ''I'm having all these House Beautiful fantasies,'' he said.
 He already bought accouterments for his private bathroom -- a shower curtain and bath mat, as well as nice soap. He's relieved that ''I will never have a problem getting into the bathroom at 5 a.m.,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WANTED: A 'NICER PLACE' -- J. R. Wilheim outside his old New York apartment. Once he got a job, he wanted a place he could feel good about living in. (Photo by Nina Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
J. R. Wilheim in his furnished apartment in Washington Heights
Leaving the apartment, which had four bedrooms and five residents
In front of his new building on Willoughby Avenue in Brooklyn
Time to consult the decorating experts
 Mr. Wilheim in the living room with his new roomates, Myung Kim, left, and Marko Savanovic (Photographs by Nina Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PARALEGALS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); STUDENT LOANS (69%) Housing; Biographical Information

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: J R Wilheim; Joyce Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); WICHITA, KS, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



540 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: When Employees Are Sick, Absenteeism Can Be a Virtue 

BYLINE: By DENISE DIFULCO

 BODY:
Eugene Lee will do whatever it takes to get to the office. Mr. Lee, an account manager at the advertising firm Regan Campbell Ward, went to work with an acute case of food poisoning while at a previous job and spent most of the morning scrambling between his desk and the bathroom.
 Another time, after spraining his ankle, he hobbled from his home in Queens into the subway and rode into Manhattan so he would not miss a day's work.
 ''To those around you, I think it shows a level of commitment to the agency and the work that you do,'' he said. ''And because I run a division, if something doesn't go well in my absence, I feel personally responsible.'' 
 Several studies show that like Mr. Lee, most workers feel obliged to drag themselves to the office no matter how far under the weather they are feeling. 
 But employment researchers, and employers themselves, are increasingly acknowledging that having sick employees stumble in to work and slog through the day -- a phenomenon they call ''presenteeism'' -- is not just painful for the employees, but can also hurt the company, because ailing workers are unlikely to perform at their normal level and they may also infect others.
 ''Presenteeism is twice as big as absenteeism in America and accounts for two-thirds of the productivity losses that occur at work,'' said Ronald Kessler, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School.
 A study published this year in the Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine estimated that productivity losses stemming from presenteeism could be as high as 60 percent of the total cost to the company of worker illness, eclipsing the costs of absenteeism and medical and disability benefits.
 The answer for employers is not necessarily to make sick workers stay home, however, said Ron Goetzel, director of the Cornell University Institute for Health and Productivity Studies and chief executive of the health information firm Medstat, which conducted the study. 
 ''The only time it would make sense to do that is if you've got a communicable disease like a cold or flu,'' he said, ''where not only are you unproductive, but if you infected other people, they're going to be unproductive.'' 
 Instead, many employers are trying to prevent employees from getting sick in the first place. 
 ''The best way to keep someone healthy at work is to make sure that they don't get sick,'' said Dr. William Bunn, M.D., vice president for health, safety and productivity for the International Truck and Engine Corporation.
 His company has medical clinics at each of its 25 locations and also offers its 14,000 employees a list of preventive health programs. The company administers annual flu shots and produces publications and seminars on topics like cold prevention, proper lifting techniques and traveler's sicknesses. 
 Some other companies are trying to root out presenteeism by rethinking their sick leave policies.
 In some cases, companies are eliminating the distinction between sick and vacation time, instead giving employees days as ''paid time off.'' 
 Shelly Wolff, national leader of health and productivity for the consulting firm Watson Wyatt, said her firm's research shows that the number of companies offering ''paid time off'' has increased to 30 percent from 20 percent in the last three years. ''It allows employees to have more confidentiality as to why they're taking time off and more flexibility,'' she said. Employers benefit from the system, as well: with paid time off, employees are less likely to take sick days off when they are not really sick.
 Some other companies find that an unlimited sick time policy is effective. 
 Jonathan Zaleski, president of the PR Collective, a communications firm based in Los Angeles, adopted unlimited sick time for the 10 workers in his company's main office when he began the business in 2003.
 ''We've all had the experience of having 'the company cold,''' he said, which can be particularly devastating in a small office like his. Sick workers are not only discouraged from coming into the office, but they are also assured that their work will be covered by their supervisor, not by an underling. 
 ''It's good for the employees because it makes it easier to say, 'I don't have to come in today.' They don't have to worry that the person covering for them is causing more problems,'' Mr. Zaleski said. No worker has taken more than three sick days in the last year, he said. 
 The job market's halting improvement in recent months may also be helping to reduce presenteeism, according to research by ComPsych Corporation, the largest provider of employee assistance programs. In a survey by ComPsych this year, 77 percent of the 627 employees surveyed said they went to work while they were sick. And 33 percent of the 627 employees said they went to work sick because their workload made taking time off too difficult, while 26 percent said they felt it was too risky to take off in the current work environment or that they saved their sick time for when their children were ill.
 In contrast, 81 percent of workers surveyed by ComPsych last year said that they went to work sick, and 29 percent of those surveyed said they did so because taking time off seemed too risky.
 ''About a year or two ago, with the economy clearly struggling, people did everything they could to get themselves to work,'' said Richard A. Chaifetz, chairman and chief executive of ComPsych.
 Sue York, a project manager for a group of computer programmers at the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, said she once drove to her office in White House Station, N.J., from her home in Scotch Plains, N.J., with a sinus infection that made her lightheaded and dizzy.
 ''It was not the most intelligent thing in the world to be driving, but I took back roads and took my time getting there and getting home,'' she said.
 Although Ms. York is a self-described ''company woman'' who feels compelled to get her job done no matter what, she also says that supervisors where she works tend to look down upon people who call in sick even though they are entitled to paid time off.
 In the past, Ms. York and her co-workers felt vulnerable if they needed a day off, she says. But now, with major job losses slowing nationwide, Ms. York said she no longer felt guilty if she took a day to tend to her sick daughter or even go on a job interview.
 ''I am taking a new look at things and saying, 'The job market is opening up. I can work anywhere else. Why do I have to work here?''' she said.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of a computer malfunction, the Job Market column last Sunday about employees who come to work even when they are sick misspelled the name of the headquarters town for the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies. It is Whitehouse Station, N.J., not White House. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugene Lee, an advertising account manager, says he goes to work no matter how ill he is. He says that shows his co-workers that his job is very important to him. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (77%); INFLUENZA (72%); COMMON COLD (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Labor; Research; Absenteeism ; Productivity; Labor

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TRUCK & ENGINE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (60%)

PERSON: Denise Difulco

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



541 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART/ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2092 words

HEADLINE: The Shock of the New Entry Fee

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Elaine Aradillas contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
ON the summer weekend two years ago when the Museum of Modern Art opened its temporary home in Queens, the line flowed out of the building, an old Swingline staple factory, past a check-cashing storefront and an auto body shop. Miles from the museum's landmark building in Midtown Manhattan, which was soon to undergo a massive expansion, the crowd was so eager to enter the new space -- for free -- that some people waited on line for over an hour.
 Perhaps even more encouraging than the crowd's size, to the museum officials who had nervously wondered how many people they could woo to an outer borough, was its makeup. It was young and, while not quite a cultural tapestry by Queens standards, more diverse than the usual MoMA scene. Many visitors hailed from the outer boroughs. ''We felt good,'' James A. Gara, the museum's chief operating officer, said. ''We really did reach an audience we had always wanted to reach.'' 
 So began MoMA's era of outreach, in which an international headquarters for urbane cultural sophistication set up shop in a modest building in Long Island City. When the original location reopens in late November, that brief era -- all 29 months of it -- will end in ways that go much deeper than merely the geographic. The people who run MoMA have made a calculated decision to play to their base. 
 They will raise the basic price of admission an eye-opening 67 percent, to $20, making MoMA the most expensive major art museum in the United States. With a couple hundred thousand more square feet, a soaring new lobby and a redesign overseen by the architect Yoshio Taniguchi, MoMA has essentially upgraded both its product and its price. The result will offer a very different experience than the old building did -- much more art on display, and many more inducements to spend a leisurely day in its company. Each floor, for instance, has some space where visitors can refresh themselves -- a place to buy an espresso, to talk on a cell phone or to flip through a catalog.
 Modern-art lovers who can comfortably absorb the $8 price hike are likely to be delighted with the trade-off, as may tourists interested in exploring the full range of the museum's resources. New Yorkers who like to spend an occasional lunch hour at the museum and tourists who just want to see ''The Starry Night,'' however, may not be so happy. As Melissa Dale, a first-year student at the Parsons School of Design who was visiting the museum's Queens outpost last week, said: ''If it cost us $20, we probably wouldn't come. It's, like, food for three days for us.''
 The upscaling of MoMA is the clearest example of the ways that the nation's top art museums are trying to change their business model. With attendance flat in recent years and many costs, like insurance and utilities, growing, museum directors see ticket-price increases as a way both to raise funds and to push more visitors to become members. The cost of a MoMA membership -- $75 for an individual, $150 for a family -- will stay the same, turning it into a significantly better deal than it now is. The membership rolls at MoMA and some other museums have already grown in recent years, despite the stagnation of overall attendance.
 The directors also know that the highly educated museum-going demographic has been on the long end of almost every economic trend of the last three decades. It can afford to pay a few more dollars. ''There is a sufficiently large body of people for whom going to a museum is important and they're going to do it,'' Glenn Lowry, MoMA's director, said, explaining that months of study persuaded him and his colleagues that the $20 ticket would have little effect on attendance. ''I'd love it if we were free. Because I think cultural institutions belong to the people. But we are a private institution. We do not get public subsidies. And we're not asking for any.''
 Museum inflation has outpaced the price increases for nearly every other form of entertainment in recent years. The suggested entry price for the Art of Institute of Chicago has nearly doubled since 1999. A ticket to the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston has more than doubled in the last five years, to $7, while San Francisco's Museum of Modern Art has begun charging an additional $5, equal to half the basic ticket price, for its most popular shows. The Guggenheim Museum will charge $18, instead of the usual $15, for four months starting in October while it plays host to a show on the Aztec empire.
 All this has come during a time of low inflation across much of the rest of the economy. The Grand Canyon and Yosemite National Park cost exactly the same to enter as they did five years ago. Televisions, computers and CD players are cheaper than they were. Tickets to movies and Broadway shows have all risen, but by significantly less than tickets to many major art museums have.
 Still, museums can be a bargain in many ways. A $20 ticket to MoMA will allow a visitor to spend from morning till evening seeing some of the world's great works of art, sampling the temporary exhibitions, reading the literature, exploring the vast new space, relaxing in Philip Johnson's Sculpture Garden. The movies that play in the two theaters cost nothing extra. A couple of hours of entertainment at the Metropolitan Opera, a Broadway theater or Madison Square Garden, by contrast, often cost more than $100.
 ''Museums are still the best value in culture today,'' said Eli Broad, a philanthropist who sits on the boards of MoMA and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. ''And they would be even if admissions were one-and-a-half times what they are.''
 As in the past, MoMA will offer a number of discounts. Children 16 and under who come with an adult will pay nothing, as will students from a number of local universities, including Columbia and the City University of New York. Other students will pay $12. On Fridays after 4 p.m., when visitors used to be invited to pay what they wished, admission will be free across the board. These discounts mean that many people will not in fact pay $20, as the museum's officials are careful to point out. 
 But list prices still matter, as economists and psychologists know. That is why businesses often set prices just below a round number -- only $49.99! -- and why car advertisements often emphasize the monthly payments instead of the sticker price. The higher a list price, the more people regard it as simply beyond their means. Given the excitement over the new building, MoMA could well break its own attendance record in 2005. But the $20 ticket price is likely to mean that those who walk through its doors will come from a narrower slice of the population than in the past. It will almost certainly restrict the way people make use of one of the New York's signature institutions.
 ''Even for New York, it's very high. It's going to be a barrier for some people,'' said Ruth Berson, deputy director for programs and collections at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. ''I wish them well with it. And I'm sure they have a lot to make up,'' she added, referring to the cost of the renovation. 
 ''But -- whew!''
 When Mr. Lowry, Mr. Gara and their colleagues gathered in the small conference rooms around MoMA's temporary offices on Sixth Avenue and in the museum's Queens offices to discuss the cost of admission to the renovated museum, they knew only one thing for sure. It would no longer be $12. 
 Since MoMA last raised its ticket prices, in 2001, a series of calamities worthy of a Goya painting have befallen art museums. The stock-market bubble began to deflate in 2000, leaving large institutions with much less income from their endowments than they had expected. MoMA had better luck than some museums, failing to make money on its investments in only one year. But its money managers were not immune to dot-com euphoria, and they overestimated the financial returns they could make. 
 The attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, hurt museums even more, first by causing tourism to plummet and then by raising the cost of insurance and security. The insurance policy for the ''Matisse Picasso'' exhibition last year, for example, cost twice what it would have if the show had been held before the attacks. MoMA had expected its attendance to fall even before Sept. 11, because of the move to Queens, but the decline was aggravated by the fall in tourism. At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which hasn't budged an inch, attendance is still about 10 percent lower than it was in 2000. 
 All the while, salaries have been increasing for MoMA employees, as they have for many professionals, and benefit costs have grown even faster. Once the renovated museum opens, with its high ceilings and additional space to display paintings, it will also cost more to heat, cool and protect than the old one. 
 The total budget hole facing MoMA's planners was about $20 million, equal to roughly one fifth of the museum's operating budget. ''There are very few elements of a museum's budget that have any tweak to them,'' Mr. Lowry said on a recent afternoon, sitting in his small interior office on Sixth Avenue. ''You're already raising $30 million in gifts. O.K., maybe you can raise $31 million, but you're not going to raise $35 million. And maybe you can tweak a little extra out of the museum's costs.''
 Only a big new source of revenue would close the gap, and only ticket prices had potential to provide it. So MoMA employees began to talk about the many ways they could coax more money out of the museum's visitors. They discussed following the Disney World model and charging separately for various experiences. Basic admission could even stay at $12. Each movie might be $8. Special exhibitions could be $5 or more, depending on their popularity.
 ''We debated the 'Chinese menu' approach,'' Mr. Gara, the chief operating officer, said. ''We decided it was annoying.''
 They also debated making the airline industry their model and charging more at peak times, like the weekend, than slow times. That could raise more money, but the burden would fall mainly on New Yorkers, whom the museum is trying to entice into coming more often. Lowering the age limit for free admission to 12, from 16, risked alienating another lucrative constituency: families.
 The solution that emerged from the many meetings was the simplest one -- raising the basic ticket price -- but it was also one that gave visitors the least flexibility. MoMA is effectively a prix-fixe, all-you-can-eat restaurant. There is no a la carte sampling of Brancusi's ''Fish'' or Gaugin's ''The Seed of the Areoi.''
 MoMA's planners knew that moving beyond $15 would represent an unusually large increase for a museum. They agonized and, Mr. Gara said, beat themselves over the head about going to $20. But the very recent success of ''Matisse Picasso'' emboldened them. With a surcharge, admission to the show had cost $20 (even more for people who used Ticketmaster), yet it was one of the hottest tickets in New York, arguably the biggest outer-borough draw in years that did not take place in a baseball stadium.
 MoMA's market researchers, from both the museum's staff and an outside marketing firm, gave critical support to the price increase. After polling visitors to Queens and studying surcharges at other museums around the world, the researchers argued that it would not hurt attendance significantly. The laws of economics say a 67 percent price jump would have to affect demand for a product. But the people running MoMA decided that visitors lost to the price increase would be replaced by those drawn to the renovated museum.
 ''There's no science to this,'' Mr. Lowry said. ''It's all feel. At $20, we thought it would still feel like a good deal.''
 For MoMA, as opposed to the museum-going public, the biggest downside to the $20 ticket may simply be the attention that will go to the new benchmark of museum inflation. ''Between us and the Guggenheim, it had always been a battle over the last decade to see who would go to the next price,'' said John Stanley, deputy director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. ''We're happy they'' -- MoMA -- ''are now the price leader.'' 
 MoMA does have an advantage, however, that most price-hiking museums lack. Many of its visitors are likely to spend as much time thinking about the new lobby and new galleries as they are about the new ticket price. By the time they have returned for their second or third visit, some other museums may have moved closer to $20 themselves.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday listing admission fees at selected museums, with an article about the fee increase to $20 at the Museum of Modern Art, misstated the policy for temporary exhibitions at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. That museum occasionally adds a surcharge, but not for all exhibitions, and not always $3. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A monthslong exposure of the renovation of the Modern. (Photo by Michael Wesely)(pg. 1)
(pg. 33)Drawing (Drawing by Ivan Chermayeff)(pg. 1)Chart: ''You Pays Yer Money, You Sees Yer Art''As the Modern resets the bar for general admission prices, a survey of what it costs for adults to get into major museums around the country and the world:$20MUSEUM OF MODERN ARTNew YorkFine print: Free admission on Fridays, 4 - 7:45 p.m.$15MUSEUM OF FINE ARTSBostonFine print: $7 surcharge for exhibitions. Pay what you wish Wednesdays after 4 p.m.$12THE ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGOChicagoFine print: $12 is suggested for general admission, but mandatory for exhibitions. Tuesdays are free.$12METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ARTNew YorkFine print: $12 is merely the suggested price. No surcharge for exhibitions.$11.98THE STATE HERMITAGE MUSEUMSt. Petersburg, RussiaFine print: 350 rubles covers general admission. Discounts for single-building admission or combination tickets. First Thursday each month is free.$10.35LOUVRE MUSEUMParisFine print: 8.50 euros covers all exhibitions
first Sunday each month is free.$10SAN FRANCISCO MUSEUM OF MODERN ARTSan FranciscoFine print: $5 surcharge for all exhibitions. Thursday evenings are halfprice
 first Tuesday each month is free.$9.74UFFIZI GALLERYFlorence, ItalyFine print: 8 euros covers all admission fees.$7THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTSHoustonFine print: $3 surcharge for all exhibitions. Thursdays are free.$3.66PRADO NATIONAL MUSEUMMadridFine print: 3.01 euros covers general admission. Sundays are free.FREETATE BRITAIN AND TATE MODERNLondonFine print: Special exhibitions range from 4 to 10 pounds ($7.18 to $17.95).FREEJ. PAUL GETTY MUSEUMLos AngelesFine print: No exceptions. No fees. (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Art; Museums; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



542 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; REVIEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Times Were Hard, Yet Art Flourished

BYLINE: By Helen A. Harrison

 BODY:

'The W.P.A. Era:
Art Across America'
Nassau County Museum of Art, One Museum Drive, Roslyn Harbor, (516)484-9337. Through Oct. 31.
 Seventy years ago, in response to the economic crisis of the Great Depression, and the 25 percent unemployment rate, Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration created a series of federal job programs. The controversial experiment offered jobs in all categories, including the arts. As Roosevelt's work-relief czar, Harry Hopkins, remarked, artists ''have to eat, like other people.''
 The largest and best-known program was the Works Progress Administration, which ran the Federal Art Project from 1935 to 1943 and employed some 5,000 artists nationwide. The Treasury Department also ran its own work-relief projects and commissioned art for federal buildings. For convenience, the whole enterprise is generally grouped under the W.P.A. rubric, but New Deal is a more accurate catchall. 
 While few participants in those programs are still alive, their art survives. This show surveys what remains, from the easel paintings and graphics that were widely distributed to schools, hospitals and libraries, to murals for various types of public buildings. Numerous mural sketches and studies, as well as actual murals that have since been removed from their original locations, are included.
 Not everything on view was made on the projects. Thomas Hart Benton and Jose Clemente Orozco were never on the New Deal payroll, and some of those who were are represented here by outside work. Sadly, Chaim Gross is the only sculptor. Portable New Deal sculpture is not easy to come by, but non-project work of the period by Augusta Savage, Jose de Rivera, Ibram Lassaw and others would have added an important dimension. 
 Still, the show's scope is impressive without being overwhelming, and its concentration on New York is appropriate, given that more than half the artists who worked on New Deal projects lived here.
 Informative wall labels and an illustrated time line help make sense of the confusing federal bureaucracy and establish a context for the art programs, where seasoned professionals like Stuart Davis and Peggy Bacon and young hopefuls like Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner were paid to make their art with few restrictions on subject matter or style. The W.P.A. in particular found room for American Scene and Social Realist painters, Surrealists, expressionists and geometric abstractionists alike.
 The show also illustrates the range of quality that was inevitable in a program where need was as important a qualification as talent. Arshile Gorky, who is represented by a handsome study for his abstract Newark Airport murals, bit the hand that fed him by calling the W.P.A. ''poor art for poor people,'' and a few of the examples here bear him out. But many more prove him very wrong, and demonstrate the paradoxical vitality of American art in an era of unprecedented economic hardship and social strife.

'Projects '04'
Carriage House, Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane, East Islip, (631)224-5402. Through Oct. 3.
 The museum's latest group of site-specific installations features nine artists, three of whom have reconfigured the building's interior dimensions.
 Sean Brix describes his work as ''redefining space in the real world.'' But he does not so much redefine space as counteract it.
 His geometric designs painted on the staircase create optical illusions of angled structures and a steep vanishing point perspective that are at odds with the architectural setting. A traced shadow in the stairwell suggests an imaginary inhabitant, the only kind who could navigate successfully in such a confusing artificial environment.
 In an adjacent space, Han Sam Son's ''Architecture for Room No.2'' represents geometry and structure degraded. It also reorients the way a visitor experiences the space it occupies.
 Mr. Son's labyrinth of empty cardboard boxes, layered and stacked in building-block units, is slashed, scarred and mutilated, like the ruins of a shantytown. The material has an acoustic effect, muffling footsteps and voices, so the environment becomes even eerier when more than one person is in the room. 
 To enter McKendree Key's ''Room No.4 Divided Into Thirds,'' I had to scuttle under a white Lycra membrane that stretches across the space, roughly four feet from the floor. A ladder that penetrates the elastic cloth leads through another membrane at the eight-foot level. The climb is not difficult, but it induces a strange, and oddly pleasant, sensation of simultaneous horizontal compression and vertical expansion.
 The other artists have adapted their work to the various spaces, rather than the other way around. Janell O'Rourke's amusing ''Frog Pond'' appropriately occupies the bathroom's shower stall. Suspended within their assigned spaces are Fumito Hiraoka's ''Obsessive Compulsive II,'' an intimidating ductwork construction that recirculates its own air, and Helen Brough's ''Mellow Summer,'' a collection of light-catching colored acrylic shapes that swoop and soar playfully in the air.
 Diane Carr's ''Brick Space'' uses stacks of paper bags with collaged ends to set up a dialogue between two-dimensional surface pattern and three-dimensional structure. ''Escaping Eden,'' Nina Sweeny's series of landscape models, with their perfect grass, glittering streams and uniform artificial trees, could hold their own anywhere, and Jill Downen's ''Architectural Cellulite,'' a wall that responds to the pull of gravity, makes a general statement about humanizing the built environment.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Moses Soyer's oil painting ''Artists on W.P.A.'' (1935) is on display at the Nassau County Museum of Art in Roslyn Harbor.
 A detail of Diane Carr's installation ''Brick Space,'' on view in East Islip. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Works Progress Administration; Nassau County Museum of Art; Islip Art Museum

PERSON: Helen A Harrison

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



543 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2281 words

HEADLINE: Exit the Bayman

BYLINE: By TOM CLAVIN

 BODY:
EARLY last Monday morning, Dan King got into his car with his wife, Marsha, and his mother-in-law, Sarah Wethy, and drove out of East Hampton, the town that had been home to him and his ancestors since the late 1600's. The Kings were bound for North Carolina. Their house in Springs had been rented out, and their remaining belongings were traveling with them. For Mr. King, 55, one of the last full-time baymen in East Hampton, there could be no looking back.
 ''It's tough to leave here,'' he said. ''But we don't feel like we have a choice.''
 Mrs. King, also 55, said moving away was not a sudden decision. A King on her mother's side, she is also a true-blue Bonacker, with local ancestry dating back centuries. She had to give up her job as secretary at the Old Whalers Church in Sag Harbor and, like her husband, say goodbye to many friends and relatives. 
 Mr. King had grown up on the bays and the ocean waters off Amagansett and Napeague, and in the 1970's and 80's he captained one of East Hampton's six haul-seining crews, along with Ted Lester, Francis Lester, Bill Lester, Calvin Lester and Sam Merritt. And until he stepped down at the end of 2003, after he was elected to the East Hampton Board of Trustees, he had served for 20 years as president of the East Hampton Baymen's Association.
 No, as Mrs. King indicated, this was not a casual leavetaking. It was an admission that on eastern Long Island the tradition-steeped occupation of bayman -- plying the inshore waters for fish or shellfish, whatever's in season -- has virtually gone the way of the blacksmith.
 ''To me, Dan leaving East Hampton signifies the end of a way of life here,'' said Brad Loewen, the new president of the Baymen's Association.
 In ''Men's Lives,'' a 1986 book celebrating the East End baymen's way of life and chronicling the economic and regulatory forces arrayed against it, the writer Peter Matthiessen quoted Mr. King as saying: ''I'd like to stay on the beach as long as I can but it's getting tougher all the time. Unless things change, I think we can count the number of years we have got on one hand.''
 Mr. King underestimated, but the outcome has been the same. ''I can catch fish here, but the bottom line is I can't afford to live here,'' he said the other day, before he left. ''That's it. Fifty pounds of fluke or 100 pounds of porgies out of a pound trap just don't pay the bills, and we've felt like we're losing ground. It just gets to the point where it wears on you.''
 ''I'm filled with regret about Dan leaving,'' said Mr. Matthiessen, who lives in Sagaponack. ''One thing it signifies to me is that the sportsfishing lobby has finally succeeded in forcing the East Hampton baymen out of business after over 300 years of providing food for their families and the community. Danny's a great guy, and we'll miss him.''
 Mr. Loewen said that if working full-time as a bayman meant earning 85 percent of one's livelihood on the water, there may be no full-timers left in the town. But he said a handful of men still had enough involvement to keep the tradition alive. 
 ''We're still here,'' Mr. Loewen said. ''And we'll be here until the last guy dies or finds another place to go. I do believe we'll be here awhile yet.''
 The outlook was gloomier on Aug. 29 at a ceremony at the East Hampton Town Marine Museum in Amagansett to formally accept Mr. King's donation of the dory he had used for two decades to haul seine nets along the ocean beachfront before this method of catching fish, mostly striped bass, was outlawed by New York State.
 Isabel Furlaud, co-chairwoman of the marine museum committee of the East Hampton Historical Society, began the ceremony by reading a statement. ''Today we are witnessing the end of a 300-year tradition of haul-seining,'' she said. ''This is as much a tragic passing as the end of offshore whaling, the end of the long voyages of whaling ships and the end of the fish-meal factory that employed so many of our local seamen.'' 
 There are many ways to catch fish besides haul-seining, in which fishermen driving a dory drag one end of a net out from the beach in a huge semicircle, then haul in the ends and see what emerges from the surf. But the broader implications were not lost on the 60 or so in attendance, many of them from ancient East Hampton families.
 ''That ceremony at the Marine Museum and to honor Dan actually seemed to most of us as a sort of funeral,'' said Arnold Leo, 68, longtime secretary of the Baymen's Association. ''It was interesting that to begin the ceremony one of the hosts rang the ship's bell behind the museum, and it really sounded like a church bell summoning people to a funeral. We heard it as a bell tolling for a way of life.''
 Mr. King and other members of the Baymen's Association said the decline of a centuries-old occupation began in the mid-1980's when Gov. Mario M. Cuomo signed legislation increasing the minimum legal size for a striped bass to 24 inches, up from 16 inches. Suddenly, thousands of pounds of bass -- referred to as the ''money fish'' by baymen -- had to be taken out of nets and thrown back in the water. The incomes of local fishing families plummeted. 
 At the same time, East End waters were first visited by the brown tide, an algae bloom that decimated scallops and oysters, robbing baymen of another prime source of revenue. In 1982, 500,000 pounds of scallops worth $1.8 million were harvested by East End baymen. Fifteen years later only 53 pounds of scallops were taken in.
 In 1990, acting in response to complaints from Long Island sportfishing groups that the commercial fishermen were taking in too many bass and other fish, the state's Department of Environmental Conservation banned haul-seining altogether and limited each baymen to 100 bass annually. The dory-towing trucks that prowled 25 miles of South Fork ocean beaches disappeared, and with them went a way of life. (The only haul-seining still conducted is when the D.E.C. hires Jens Lester and a crew to catch bass as part of an ongoing survey of the fishery.) In 1985, there were anywhere from 125 to 200 baymen on the South Fork, depending on the season, but today, according to Mr. Leo, there are two dozen at most who are scratching out a living on the entire East End.
 Led by Mr. King and Mr. Leo, and with a celebrity ally in Billy Joel, the Baymen's Association fought back by pressuring politicians and conducting protests. The one that garnered the most attention took place in Amagansett in July 1992 when Tony Bullock, then the town supervisor, joined 20 Baymen's Association members and supporters and Mr. Joel in illegally fishing for striped bass, using Mr. King's ''flag dory'' and its seine. 
 The flag dory, the most distinctive such vessel on the beach for nearly two decades, had been built in 1974 by Mr. King, Tom Fields and Stuart and Billy Vorpahl in the parking lot of Stuart's Seafood Market in Amagansett. The dory was originally painted green; the Stars and Stripes paint job was done by Mr. King in 1976 to celebrate the nation's bicentennial.
 On that July Tuesday, before 1,000 cheering onlookers at Indian Wells Beach, the dory made another statement of independence. The vessel netted more than 400 pounds of striped bass. As they walked up the beach, the flag dory's crew and supporters toting the bass were issued summonses by the D.E.C. police. 
 The charges were later dismissed, but the state has stood fast on striped-bass size restrictions, and the ban on haul-seining remains in effect. Gordon Colvin, the marine resources director of the D.E.C., said the restrictions on commercial fishermen have helped the bass population to rebound.
 ''The ban on haul-seining as well as restrictions on catching striped bass using spears, gill nets and trawls was imposed to manage commercial discard mortality,'' he said. ''Different commercial management measures and recreational management measures were employed to control overall fishing mortality rates and rebuild stock biomass. These measures, employed cooperatively by East Coast states, have been very effective.''
 Mr. Matthiessen demurred. ''I'm not with the state on this,'' he said. ''The local commercial fellows have always said that the bass population comes and goes in cycles, and I believe they're right. Now, my God, you can walk on them out on the water.''
 Mr. King agreed. ''There are more bass around now than anyone has ever seen,'' he said. But he can't touch them.
 Yet even if the state D.E.C. were to relent (and no one, it seems, has asked it to do so), haul-seining as a practice is essentially done. By extension, so is bayman as a family-supporting occupation. Even if fishing restrictions were eased, most of the former baymen couldn't afford to resume their work. ''It would be so expensive for them to gear up again,'' Mr. Matthiessen said. ''All those old trucks are gone, and the nets and the dories. None of them have enough money to put a rig together. They have found other occupations by now, and they don't trust the state anyway.''
 Bill Leland, 58, now a commercial woodcutter, was a member of Mr. King's haul-seining crew. ''I finally had to leave Dan's crew because I couldn't stand to keep throwing the fish back, and I had kids going to be college age in a few years,'' he said.
 He misses his old occupation, despite its hardships. ''We'd get up at 4 in the morning and go down to the beach,'' Mr. Leland recalled. ''We'd see the sun rise, and many days we were still there when the sun set. There were days when you didn't make a penny. But you had to love what you were doing, and we did.''
 Unlike in the past, there is no next generation taking over from their fathers. ''Those who are left may not be any younger than me and Danny,'' said Mr. Loewen, 56. ''There are fewer and fewer of us and we're getting older, so the prospects for the association are dimmer and dimmer. If the state won't let us keep what we catch or catch fish at all, then there might not be a local commercial fishing industry.''
 At the Aug. 29 ceremony at the East Hampton Town Marine Museum in Amagansett to formally accept Mr. King's donation of the flag dory, he was joined by former crewmates George Schellinger, Bill Schultz, Mr. Leland, Wayne Vorpahl, Fred Havens, Tom Buttonow and Tom Olszewski and their families, as well as other longtime members of the Baymen's Association, including 96-year-old Jarvis Wood. There was praise for Mr. King and for the hard work of the baymen families. Photographs were taken and reminiscences about Francis Lester, who had died several weeks earlier at 94, and others were exchanged.
 When Mr. King was asked to give a speech, in typical direct, understated fashion he responded: ''Boat's here. Take care of it. That's it.''
 Symbolism aside, the fishing community will miss someone who was a leader and a familiar presence who, with his wife, is moving farther away than what ''far away'' means to longtime East End residents. 
 ''Yes, it's a really sad commentary on what has happened here,'' Mr. Leo said. ''It has saddened many of us connected to the baymen's community that Dan feels, as others before him have, that you just can't make a go of it here in East Hampton anymore. And we can see that. The scallops have never really come back, clamming has been O.K. for just a few guys and the waters keep being closed because of pollution. Combine that with the bare scraps offered by state regulations, and you have severely limited opportunities for people to make a living.''
 He added: ''But it saddens me greatly too because I consider Dan a close and dear friend.''
 Mr. Loewen chose to look on the brighter side for Mr. King. ''You've got to give Dan credit for realizing the fishing isn't here, and he's going to find where it is,'' he said. ''He's not giving up on being a fisherman. If it's not one place, you've got to go where it is. I respect that.''
 The flag dory will be on permanent display at the museum along with other relics of local history. For Mr. King, though, it is time to start over and create a new future.
 ''It's just time, I guess,'' Mrs. King said of her husband. ''And he's getting another opportunity to do what he loves most. I'll enjoy that too.''
 The Kings spent the first two weeks of September in North Carolina, and Mr. King began to get acclimated. ''I've been out shrimping so far, and looking around,'' he said. ''It's going to take some time. You're allowed 100 pounds of stripers a day there, so that's a big difference. There are fluke, weakfish, clams and oysters. Don't know yet for sure what I'll be doing, but it seems like the opportunities are there.''
 He is proud of his years in the Baymen's Association, especially when the small group fought a long rear-guard action against the state while he was president. ''Everything I've done I felt needed to be done,'' Mr. King said. ''People needed to be aware of what's going on. I just have a real bitterness in my heart for what New York State did to fishermen on eastern Long Island.''
 Said Mr. Leo: ''The Baymen's Association was always right in there supporting land and shoreline preservation, was very active environmentally and had a political presence because each bayman represented pretty large extended families who voted in local elections. We'll try to continue that. But we're up against the tide of politics, pollution and population in East Hampton.''
 Before leaving for good, Mr. King went clamming one last time off Napeague. It was a good day, and he filled two coolers. ''I'm going to take those clams south with me,'' he said. ''With them, I'll make some real old-fashioned Bonac chowder. Then I'll freeze it, so I'll always know it's there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DAN KING, left, one of the last East Hampton baymen, with Tom Buttonow, a former crew member, at a reception. Mr. King donated his old flag-striped haul-seining dory, background, to a local museum. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Capt. Dan King, in bow with white shirt, and his crew bringing ashore his flag dory in 1992 during a protest by the East Hampton Baymen's Association against the state's ban on haul seines to catch striped bass. Mr. King had been the association's president for 20 years until the end of 2003. (Photo by Doug Kuntz)
During a better time for baymen, Captain King's crew manned a haul seine in Amagansett in 1985.
 Dan King, a bayman for more than two decades, with a conch in 1986. (Photographs by Richard Weissman)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (86%); BOATING & RAFTING (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (72%); BEACHES (67%); MEN (64%); WRITERS (60%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Boats and Boating; Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: East Hampton Baymen's Assn; East Hampton Town Marine Museum

PERSON: Dan King; Marsha King; Sarah Wethy; Tom Clavin

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) East Hampton (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



544 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Storm Warning on Home Insurance Front

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
HOME insurers are facing damage claims that may run into the billions in hurricane-wracked Florida, but insurance experts and regulators said last week that home insurance premiums and wind deductibles on hurricane-prone Long Island would be unaffected, at least for the foreseeable future.
 But they also said waves of home improvements -- often not reported to insurers by homeowners -- and construction replacement costs far above national averages, particularly on eastern Long Island, were leaving many Long Island homeowners precariously underinsured, and in some cases unaware that their policies place caps on replacement coverage that might fall short of actual costs.
 The caps and the introduction of windstorm deductibles are a legacy of insurance industry reaction to Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Andrew, a Category 5 hurricane, inflicted heavy losses on insurers in Florida and hastened a nationwide shift away from homeowner policies that guaranteed home replacement no matter what the cost. 
 Now, homes on Long Island and elsewhere in the state are more likely to be covered by so-called extended replacement policies that generally cap replacement coverage at 20 to 25 percent above the overall limit listed in the policy, the state's Insurance Department said.
 Coverage is further restricted by windstorm deductibles based on hurricane and storm damage risk estimates that the industry devised after Andrew for Long Island and other hurricane- and windstorm-prone areas along the East Coast. The deductibles typically require a homeowner to pay thousands of dollars for repairs or replacement before coverage begins. In New York, the deductible is 2 to 5 percent of the amount for which a dwelling is insured.
 With no major hurricane striking Long Island since Andrew hit Florida, the windstorm deductibles that New York State permitted to prevent insurance companies from abandoning the state market have yet to be tested. Insurers would need permission from the state insurance department to increase the deductibles for all customers. 
 In the meantime, the escalating cost of home replacement and its tendency to outpace coverage is gaining attention in Nassau and Suffolk, and the state insurance department is advising homeowners to review their policies to ensure their coverage will meet their expectations. 
 The gap between what a house is insured for and the actual cost of replacement tends to be widest for homeowners who have lived in the same house long enough to pay down mortgage principal while carrying out home improvements, experts on the Long Island market said.
 ''People frequently find themselves underinsured even if they started off properly insured,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. ''And that's been particularly the case with the boom in home equity. People have put large amounts of money into their homes in recent years, and if you don't call your insurer, the insurer has no way of knowing it.'' 
 In real estate closings, mortgage holders insist that homes be insured to their actual value to protect loans. Thereafter, policies typically contain what the industry calls inflation guards that increase premiums 3 to 5 percent annually. But the safeguards are often outstripped by higher replacement costs on Long Island, particularly when there are extensive home improvements.
 ''There was a day 15 years ago when you could drive by a house, snap a photo and as long as you knew the square footage you could have a pretty good idea of the replacement cost within a certain range,'' said Timothy L. Brenneman, an executive vice president for Cook, Hall & Hyde, an insurance agency in East Hampton with offices in Bethpage and Plainview. ''Today there are so many variables, from what the cost of replacement is for granite counter tops and internal woodworking to the size and complexity of windows.''
 In recent years, a combination of low interest rates on loans and soaring home equity reflecting major increases in home values enticed many homeowners to undertake improvements. In older areas of Nassau as well as in western Suffolk, many homes have become expanded and upgraded versions of what they were originally. 
 But if they are damaged or destroyed by wind or fire, these altered homes are difficult and expensive to duplicate, experts said, and they are also in a region where replacement costs are at least 25 percent higher than the national average. An upward surge in the cost of building materials and the expense of meeting more demanding building codes add even more to the cost, they said. 
 Robert Wieboldt, executive director of the Long Island Builders Institute, a trade group in Islandia, said higher construction and rebuilding costs on eastern Long Island were in part a result of state codes requiring homes be able to withstand winds in excess of 120 miles an hour, higher than the 110-m.p.h. requirement for the rest of Long Island. 
 ''On a typical East End new home, it's $25,000 more than before for windows and glazing,'' he said. The higher standards also apply to replacement homes.
 Insurance agents who quiz customers closely to determine their level of need for home insurance walk a fine line, Mr. Brenneman said. ''You don't want to be perceived as trying to sell something every time they call you,'' he said. ''But on the flip side we are trying to make sure we continually update our understanding of exactly the risk of what we are insuring.'' 
 Maura Clancy, an independent insurance agent and an owner at Clancy & Clancy Brokerage Limited in Garden City, said she generally found her customers were aware of high rebuilding costs on Long Island and the need to insure adequately to meet them. ''People are well aware of the cost of construction and nobody wants to be underinsured,'' she said. 
 Ms. Clancy said nightmares followed when the underinsured suffered damages. 
 ''There is nothing worse than telling people they don't have the coverage and that it was available but the customer wasn't willing to spend the money,'' she said. ''And insurance is the cheapest thing you can possibly buy once you have a claim.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Herman family of Amityville found the roof blown off their second home in Oak Beach after Hurricane Gloria in 1985. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); WEATHER (92%); INSURANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (91%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY); Florida 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



545 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Venture Medicine; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Costs Are a Killer, but Maybe That's a Plus

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE nation's health care bill is high and headed higher. Yet most hospitals lose money or barely break even. Doctors complain they are getting squeezed. Employers bemoan rising health care costs as a threat to global competitiveness.
 Then there are people like Dr. Thomas J. Fogarty, whose career is testimony to the entrepreneurial opportunity of high-tech medicine in America. He got his introduction to medicine as an eighth grader when he worked part time at the Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati, cleaning stomach pumps and stacking bedpans. Soon, he was made a scrub technician so he saw a lot of surgery firsthand as teenager.
 After he became a doctor, Dr. Fogarty invented a balloon catheter for removing blood clots. The prototype, made in his attic, used the pinkie finger of a surgical glove. He patented the Fogarty balloon catheter in 1969, and the pioneering device has helped make live-saving surgery less invasive and dangerous. 
 At 70, Dr. Fogarty, a surgeon who teaches at the Stanford Medical School, holds more than 60 patents and owns a 320-acre vineyard west of Palo Alto, Calif., the Thomas Fogarty Winery. He is also a venture capitalist these days, and he talks enthusiastically about the medical-device startups he is nurturing, which focus on ailments from sleep apnea to obesity. 
 ''Sure, there are plenty of problems with health care, but they provide opportunities as I see it,'' Dr. Fogarty said.
 The American health care bill, the government estimates, will be $1.79 trillion this year, or $6,167 per person. By all accounts, there is plenty of waste and inefficiency in health care, ranging from unnecessary clinical tests to the bureaucratic sea of paper used to handle bills, claims and patient records.
 If a miracle were to rid the system of all such inefficiency, the total costs would be reduced by 10 percent to 20 percent, health care economists estimate. But the main reason health care spending is rising is that modern medical technology has steadily made it possible to do more for more people. Hips and hearts can be fixed, while the ravages of schizophrenia and depression can be moderated.
 The technological marvels of medicine, of course, are little comfort to most of the 45 million Americans who are not covered by health insurance. Yet among the insured majority, millions of people are being treated for physical and mental ailments that went untreated or undetected years ago. 
 That spells more operations and more pills, and the costs pile up. Bill Clinton's heart bypass operation and hospital stay earlier this month cost an estimated $25,000, but he, like thousands of others who have undergone the procedure, is expected to return soon to his fully active life.
 ''Even if you could take all the waste out of health care, the spending would still go up because we have a technology-intensive system that will continue and it is delivering a lot of benefits in terms of longer, healthier lives,'' said David Cutler, a health care economist at Harvard University.
 So, even as fiscal conservatives decry the rising costs of government health programs like Medicare and Medicaid, the health care proposals of President Bush and Senator John Kerry share one common theme: there will be more, not less, government spending on health care. President Bush features tax credits and health savings accounts, while Senator Kerry has proposed a major, and costly, program to cover the uninsured. 
 Even fixing inefficiencies will have significant costs up front. 
 A government plan announced in July will move the nation's health care system toward electronic patient records and computerized prescriptions. In addition to eliminating waste, an automated system could also sharply reduce medical errors, which are estimated to be responsible for 45,000 to 98,000 deaths a year -- more than breast cancer, AIDS or motor vehicle accidents, according to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
 Yet the longed-for benefits will only come after years of investment. The health care industry may have spent generously on medical technology, like M.R.I. machines or Dr. Fogarty's catheters, but it has not spent much on information technology -- computer hardware, software and services -- for storing, processing and analyzing patient histories, drug regimens, claims and billing. So all the big computer technology companies, like I.B.M. and Microsoft, and many smaller ones, are eager to cash in on an expected surge in health care spending on everything from handheld computers to software. 
 ''There is a new attitude toward information technology and health care, and no one is arguing anymore about whether we should do this,'' said Neal Patterson, chief executive of Cerner, which produces software for health care automation. ''But the problem is big and complex. It's going to take a lot of investment.''
 While cost cutters focus on prescribing more generic drugs, the logic of medical technology means that the higher-cost products often win. A recent example involves stents, the mesh-like tubes often put in heart arteries to keep them open after a clot has been removed. But about one-third of the time arteries clog up again because the body treats the stent as if it were an injury, something that needs to be healed over. 
 To overcome that problem, Boston Scientific, a medical device maker, invested more than $500 million in recent years to develop a drug-coated stent, explained Thomas Gunderson, a medical technology analyst at Piper Jaffray, an investment services company. 
 The drug-coated stents cost about $2,500 each, while the uncoated stents cost about $1,000. But the benefits from the coating, in terms of preventing cleared arteries from clogging up again, were such that Medicare said it would pay for the more expensive coated stents, even before the Food and Drug Administration approved the device in March. Boston Scientific had to recall some of its coated stents over the summer, but the company expects to sell more than $1 billion of the product in its first nine months on the market, Mr. Gunderson estimates.
 A pill can be seen as a delivery vehicle for a chemical technology. In the rise of high-tech medicine, the pharmaceutical business has probably been the biggest single winner, becoming one of the most profitable industries in the world. 
 The industry faces a backlash today not only because of its high profits but also its marketing tactics, including pharmaceutical company payments to doctors -- a practice that has prompted government investigations and some criminal charges. Opinion polls show the public has about as dim a view of pharmaceutical companies as they do of tobacco companies.
 Despised certainly, but perhaps worth it. In a working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit research group, Frank Lichtenberg, an economist at Columbia University's business school, has concluded that 40 percent of the increased longevity in 52 countries over the last 20 years can be attributed to new drugs. The cost in pharmaceuticals for an extra year of life was on average $5,000 a person, according to his research. 
 ''In general, the benefits of new drugs outweigh the costs by a substantial margin,'' Mr. Lichtenberg said.
 MAYBE spending more on high-tech health care isn't so bad after all. Wring inefficiency out of the system where you can, advises Mr. Cutler, the Harvard economist, but get used to it. 
 ''Having longer, higher-quality lives is a luxury that we as a society can increasingly afford,'' he said. ''What's wrong with that? What would you rather be spending it on? More plasma TV's?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A drug-coated stent, above, costs $2,500. Uncoated stents cost about $1,000. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); HEART DISEASE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (74%); PATENTS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); OBESITY (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); SLEEP DISORDERS (65%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Surgery and Surgeons; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



546 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2312 words

HEADLINE: 20 Years and 5 Editors Later . . .

BYLINE: By Jonathan Mahler. 
Jonathan Mahler is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine. His first book, ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning: 1977, the Yankees, and the Battle for the Soul of a City,'' will be published next spring.

 BODY:
Like general contractors, writers are famously optimistic when it comes to estimating how long a project will take. Fortunately, publishers are more forgiving than homeowners; deadlines are routinely extended one, two, even three years. But there is another category of writer, one for whom the laws of space and time seem to disappear altogether. Years bleed into one another as file cabinets bulge with extraneous information. Sentences are committed and retracted. Pages stack up -- or don't. A decade passes, and the end of the tunnel remains dark. Only by scratching away the layers of Liquid Paper on the line of the contract reading ''delivery date,'' as if it were an instant lottery ticket, is it possible to ascertain when exactly the manuscript was first due.
 Industry people agree that the endless extension has gone the way of the lavish book party, that it is now a luxury available only to the most bankable authors. Editors tend to blame literary agents for driving up advances to a level where publishers can no longer afford not to turn up the heat when projects drag on. Literary agents tend to blame the bottom-line-obsessed conglomerates that have been gobbling up once empathetic independent publishing houses. But while it may be endangered, the albatross book is by no means extinct. 
 America's most legendarily blocked writer at present is almost certainly Fran Lebowitz, who -- with the exception of a children's book -- published her last work, ''Social Studies,'' in 1981. (She inherited the mantle from Harold Brodkey, whose eagerly anticipated first novel was so long in coming -- more than three decades, as it turned out -- that he actually became perhaps the first author to become famous for not writing a book.) Last year it looked like the long drought was finally over; among the titles in Knopf's fall catalog was ''Progress,'' Lebowitz's 112-page ''lustily anticipated meditation on the disappearance of progress.'' And then, before it had even reached the shelves, ''Progress'' itself disappeared. A vestige of the book lingers like a ghost limb on Amazon beside a recommendation to would-be buyers to check back occasionally to see if the title has become available. (But wait. There's hope yet. The October issue of Vanity Fair features an excerpt!)
 For Diane McWhorter, the problem wasn't producing pages; it was finding the brakes. When she first signed with Simon & Schuster's now-defunct Summit Books imprint to write ''Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama: The Climactic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution'' in 1982, she couldn't imagine she would need more than a year. McWhorter's editor -- her first editor, that is -- encouraged her to take two. They compromised on a year and a half. ''I really thought I was picking one not very large city, and I had the climax -- the year 1963 -- that the story was building to. It seemed doable,'' she says. ''I don't know how it got so out of hand.''
 Her first deadline soon passed. For a while, McWhorter remained in denial, assuring everyone, herself included, that she would be finished in six months. After about five years, Simon & Schuster threatened to cancel her contract. McWhorter submitted everything she had. Her editor told her to forge ahead. Somewhere around the 15-year mark, she ran into Fred Hills, an editor at Simon & Schuster, on Long Island. Hills asked how the book was coming. McWhorter detected a note of concern in his voice. ''What are you hearing?'' she asked warily. ''That it's getting into two-volume, university press range,'' he answered. It was. At this point, McWhorter was busy barbering a 3,400-page manuscript to 1,500. It took her two years, and when she finally stashed her shears and reread the manuscript she realized she had destroyed the narrative. The whole book needed to be restructured. She finally turned it in at the beginning of 2000. It was published in March 2001.
 There are two kinds of books: unfinished and finished. When McWhorter finally crossed over from the former to the latter, everything changed. She hadn't been wandering around aimlessly in the woods after all. Nineteen lost years were redeemed overnight: ''Once the book is out you go from 'What a chump she can't finish that book,' to 'Wow, what an incredible journey, ' '' she says.
 It didn't hurt that ''Carry Me Home,'' like Neil Sheehan's book ''The Bright Shining Lie,'' was published to great acclaim. Sheehan's classic book on Vietnam, a comparatively brisk 16 years in the making, won both a Pulitzer and the National Book Award after it was published in 1988. ''I think about that book every time I extend an author's delivery date,'' says Tim Duggan, an executive editor at HarperCollins. ''Can you imagine if they had canceled it? That's a healthy fear in every editor's mind, and it's certainly one that breeds patience.'' Sheehan is now testing his editor's patience again. His book about the cold war, which he contracted to write about eight years ago, is already overdue. '' 'The Bright Shining Lie' took longer than anticipated,'' his agent, Robert Lescher, told me, ''and this one will too.''
 Is this true of all great books? Shelby Foote certainly believes so. Chiding his friend Walker Percy in early 1952, Foote wrote: ''The thing you don't understand (but will when you work harder and come to it yourself) is the artist's terrific affinity for the difficult, the thing he cannot do.'' Of course, when he wrote that letter, Foote had not yet published the first of his three-volume history of the Civil War, a project that eventually spanned 20 years.
 And yet time is not always an ally. Consider the case of Marguerite Young. In 1965, on the heels of the publication of her 1,198-page magnum opus ''Miss MacIntosh, My Darling,'' Young embarked on a short, palette-cleansing book about the Socialist labor leader, Eugene V. Debs. The brief biography had soon become a three-volume epic-in-progress that would, in Young's own immodest words, ''break down the categories of poetry and prose.'' The term biography was now too reductive for her taste; she was painting a canvas of ''the failed millennial continent of America.''
 When Young died in 1995, the book -- or books -- remained unpublished, but her editor at Knopf, Victoria Wilson, assured an obituary writer that she was in possession of the manuscript and that it was ''astonishing.'' (Wilson herself is now in year 18 of a long-overdue biography of Barbara Stanwyck.) Four years later, Knopf finally published ''Harp Song for a Radical: The Life and Times of Eugene Victor Debs.'' It stopped short before Debs helped found the American Socialist Party or launched the first of his five campaigns for president. Not only had Young covered less than half of Debs's life -- by one reviewer's count, she would have needed another 2,000 pages to get to his most famous declaration: ''While there is a lower class, I am in it. While there is a criminal element, I am of it. While there is a soul in prison, I am not free'' -- Harp Song'' suffered from its author's best intentions. The book had the quality of a piece of meat that had sat in its marinade for too long. (Writing in these pages in 1999, Adam Shatz said that it read like ''an obsessive, oracular 19th-century text discovered in someone's attic.'')
 You can't really blame Young. Detailed proposals aside, it's virtually impossible to know what shape a book will take when one first embarks on it. In the early 80's, Victor Navasky also set out to write a short book -- a meditation, really -- on the role of opinion journals in the age of mass media. As the editor of one of those journals, The Nation, Navasky figured he'd be able to knock it out in a year. He finally delivered the 550-page manuscript, ''A Matter of Opinion,'' last month. It is no longer a meditation, but rather a memoir of his misadventures in the world of opinion journals. The book followed its acquiring editor, Elisabeth Sifton, from Viking to Knopf to Farrar, Straus & Giroux, which will publish it next spring.
 Nonfiction writers, at least, have the luxury of tackling a finite subject, massive though it may be. Novelists are prisoners of their own freedom, a paradox that leads to situations like the one so memorably described by Grady Tripp, the narrator of Michael Chabon's ''Wonder Boys'': ''It. . . stood at 2,611 pages, each of them revised and rewritten a half-dozen times. And yet for all of those words expended in charting the eccentric paths of my characters through the violent blue heavens I had set them to cross, they had not even reached their zeniths. I was nowhere near the end.''
 The fictional Tripp's previous novels had all been exceedingly minor; it can be that much harder to follow a successful book. Harper Lee, the author of ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' never did. The burden of anticipation for Brodkey's first novel -- his precocious short stories had earned him comparisons to Proust and Wordsworth -- transformed him into a sad caricature of a blocked writer. ''Either I am truly great, or I am a fraud,'' he uttered to one of the many journalists who profiled him along the way. There's a perverse irony here: The longer it takes to finish a book, the higher expectations rise -- and the harder it becomes to deliver. All of which may explain why we are still waiting for Katherine Dunn to publish a follow-up to ''Geek Love'' (1989). Her novel-in-progress is about a boxing cut man. ''Katherine once told me that writers are like faucets,'' Dunn's agent, Richard Pine, says. ''Some drip and some are on free flow. She drips and she's happy dripping.'' John Berendt is still working on a novel set in Venice, the follow-up to his 1994 nonfiction bestseller, ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil''; Jonathan Harr has not written a book since his 1995 hit ''A Civil Action.'' (He is working on a book about a Caravaggio painting.)
 Generally speaking, no one drips more slowly than biographers. At around the same time that Elisabeth Sifton signed up Navasky, she also commissioned Richard Parker, who was just leaving his job as editor and publisher of Mother Jones magazine, to write a biography of the economist John Kenneth Galbraith. Unlike Navasky, who stayed in close touch with his editor, Parker vanished. A senior official at Viking eventually came after him for his modest advance, but Parker was able to strike a deal with him. The publisher had given a far bigger advance to Jesse Jackson for a long-overdue book, and he was failing to return their phone calls altogether. Parker was friends with one of Jackson's top aides. If he could at least get Jackson to call Viking back, he could keep his money.
 Parker abandoned the Galbraith project altogether for close to a decade. ''The gun went off and I stood at the starting line,'' he says. But in the early 90's, while he was traveling around a crumbling Soviet Union grappling with the transition to capitalism, his interest in Galbraith was rekindled. Parker was too embarrassed to approach Sifton until he at least had some pages written, so he got to work. A few years later, he tracked her down at a lecture at Harvard and reintroduced himself. Farrar, Straus & Giroux will publish the book in January. Since Parker signed his initial contract, Galbraith has written many books of his own.
 Megan Marshall, who agreed to write a biography of the Peabody sisters, three 19th-century protofeminists, in 1985, plunged right in, but when her first deadline passed in 1988 she was still doing research. Part of the problem was deciphering the thousands of letters the sisters had written to each other. Eager to save money on postage, the Peabodys often wrote what they called ''cross-written letters'' -- covering every inch of a single, large sheet of paper, then turning it around 90 degrees and writing back across a page that was already full of handwriting. Throughout the process, Marshall was haunted by the knowledge that two previous scholars had wanted to write books about the Peabodys, but it had taken them both so long to track down and assemble the many letters, they died before they had even started writing. 
 At about the 10-year mark, Marshall had almost finished a first draft when she visited an archive to read what she thought was going to be a brief posthumous tribute to one of the sisters. It was, in fact, an unpublished, 600-page manuscript filled with new information that forced a wholesale rethinking. This past July, Marshall finally finished ''The Peabody Sisters.'' She was 30 when she signed the contract; she will be 50 when Houghton Mifflin publishes the book next May. After submitting her manuscript, Marshall went on vacation to Italy to celebrate. Her editor -- her fifth editor -- told her the book would be ready for copy-editing when she came back. Tears came to Marshall's eyes. ''I thought, even if I don't come back, even if I perish overseas, it will be ready for copy-editing -- it will go on without me,'' she says. ''It made me realize what a force in my life this had been.''
 Letting go is not always easy. Working on a book can provide authors with a sense of security. It confers on them the sense -- illusory though it may be -- of being employed, a comforting thing to someone who wakes up every morning without a compelling reason to put on a pair of pants. And a book is more than a job; it's a colleague, too. After writing the final line of ''History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'' in 1787, a book that had taken him 15 years to complete, Edward Gibbon took a moment to describe the feeling: ''I will not dissemble the first emotions of joy on recovery of my freedom, and, perhaps, the establishment of my fame. But my pride was soon humbled, and a sober melancholy was spread over my mind, by the idea that I had taken an everlasting leave of an old and agreeable companion.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Page 13 of the Book Review today about books that have taken long periods to write misstates the time so far consumed by Victoria Wilson's biography of Barbara Stanwyck. She has been working on it for 8 years, not 18, and it is not considered overdue by its publishers, Simon & Schuster. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter 0. Zierlein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERARY AGENTS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); LOTTERIES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%) Books and Literature

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Jonathan Mahler

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (65%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



547 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: A Drumroll, Again, for Interest Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE mug's game of the day is predicting interest rates. Even quoting forecasts for longer-term interest rates can be embarrassing.
 Nonetheless, the decline last Wednesday in the yield on the 10-year Treasury to below 4 percent screams for comment. This was supposed to be the year when longer-term rates rose as the Federal Reserve tightened monetary policy. But even at the Friday level of 4.03 percent, the 10-year yield is down for the year. 
 Bob Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Asset Management, is part of the herd that has been wrong on the direction of interest rates. But he still believes that economic growth is strong enough, along with the Fed's lifting of short-term interest rates, to send longer-term yields, like the 10-year note, higher again.
 Interest rates will go up, ''and everything is going to get hit,'' Mr. Froehlich said last week. ''So get the highest yield you can get,'' he added. 
 He is sticking to high-yield corporate bonds and high-yield municipal bonds, all of which pay higher interest than Treasury securities or investment-grade corporate bonds. At the same time, he has cut his overall exposure to bonds, to 20 percent of the portfolio, from 30 percent.
 One sign that the rally in Treasury prices, which rise when yields fall, may be overdone is the so-called technical buying in the market of late. This buying is not new bets on still-lower interest rates. It is by investors who are hedging against possible losses in the mortgage market if lower rates stimulate refinancing. And it is by those who have to buy to stem losses incurred from bets that rates would be higher by now.
 Scott Gewirtz, co-head of government bond trading at Deutsche Bank, said that this technical buying accounted for ''the biggest part'' of the recent rate decline.

DATA PREVIEW -- The September report on manufacturing from the Institute for Supply Management, due on Friday, is expected to show little change, with a reading of 58.4, compared to 59 in August, according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. A decline of much more than that would fire up those who think that the economy is not gaining much traction, despite pronouncements to the contrary from Fed officials.
 Among the other data due this week is the final revision for the second-quarter gross domestic product, which is expected to show growth at an annual rate of 3 percent, and the University of Michigan report on consumer confidence, which analysts expect will show little change.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks 10-year Treasury Shield from July through September. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



548 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: A Campus Awakens In a Corner of Camden

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: CAMDEN 

 BODY:
ASK the provost of the Rutgers campus here about this troubled city's long-awaited reawakening, and he'll show you the door. And the trim around the ceiling. And the newly restored floor.
 ''I think this is a great example of what's happening here,'' said the provost, Roger J. Dennis, gesturing at his office in a recently restored 19th-century brick building on Cooper Street just blocks from the Delaware River.
 After decades in a nondescript administrative building tucked away on a corner of the 40-acre campus, the provost's office relocated last fall to its current home on one of Camden's main streets in a building that was falling apart just a few years ago. 
 Along with an increasing local student presence -- from about 4,500 in 1996 to almost 6,000 today -- and several new retail businesses to serve them, the school's administrators and local officials hope that the renovated administrative building represents something bigger: the birth of a true university district for a city that is in the process of spending hundreds of millions dollars to reinvent itself. But if the provost's office is a symbol of recovery, it also stands for something else. For all the improvements it has undergone, the office still stands across the street from one of the city's many boarded-up buildings, and just blocks from streets teeming with drugs, violence and despair.
 ''We realize the challenge we face,'' said Mr. Dennis, who took over as provost in 1997. ''It's like what Winston Churchill said: this is not the beginning of the end, but the end of the beginning of Camden's redevelopment.''
 Camden has indeed seen the beginning of a comeback from its almost unfathomable depths in the 1980's and 90's, when corruption, crime and crushing poverty made it one of the most dire of urban settings in the nation, and the city became famous for its ''mischief night'' -- an annual event that was, essentially, an arson-fest. For years Camden had one of the highest per capita homicide rates in the United States, and it remains the poorest city in New Jersey.
 During that time, the Rutgers campus here became something of a frontier outpost for students who commuted from the suburbs, walling itself off from the neighborhood, seizing land and developing a reputation among the city's beleaguered residents as a hostile occupying power.
 But these days efforts by Rutgers to make capital improvements and attract more students to live on or near its campus -- which extends from the Delaware River on its west to Broadway on the east -- are beginning to have an effect on the local economy, from the upscale private housing and cheap rental units on its fringes to the small retail businesses that have opened to serve the growing number of the school's 5,800 students and 800 employees.
 ''Going back to the years when they started acquiring property, there was very much an adversarial relationship between Rutgers and neighborhoods around it,'' said Melvin R. Primas, the former mayor and current state-appointed chief operating officer of the city. ''More recent history has been one of everyone viewing them as a major asset to downtown. They've become tremendously good corporate citizens.''
 Yet as much of an effort as Rutgers has made, over the years Camden's institutions of higher education have not always had the stabilizing impact that they have had in other troubled urban areas. Unlike Newark's Rutgers campus, which played an important role in anchoring that city through its own tough times, Camden, which has a total population of about 80,000, has never had a large, captive constituency of students to act as a buffer against middle-class flight. (Newark has approximately 40,000 students in its various universities, as opposed to the approximately 8,500 who attend Rutgers, Rowan University and Camden County College in Camden). 
 Nor does Camden have a corporate presence comparable to Newark, or the jobs and stability that go along with them. The city's economy probably peaked more than a half-century ago, when the population was 125,000 and it was home to a flourishing shipbuilding business and other providers of manufacturing jobs like RCA Victor and the Campbell Soup Company. While Campbell's still maintains its corporate headquarters here, the jobs for processing canned goods as well as building ships and making phonographs have disappeared. What's more, this city is still struggling with a reputation for crime and violence that to a large extent repels potential suburban visitors despite the growing riverfront development that includes the Tweeter Center, the state aquarium, the Battleship New Jersey and Campbell's Field, where the minor league Camden Riversharks play under the shadow of the Benjamin Franklin Bridge. Those problems are not going to be erased any time soon: Camden had 44 murders in 2003, recapturing its unenviable title as the region's most dangerous city, and this year there were 10 homicides in July alone. 
 ''There's only one major institution there, in Camden,'' said Steven Diner, Mr. Dennis' counterpart at Rutgers-Newark. ''Downtown Camden basically is Rutgers-Camden, and that's only half the size of Rutgers-Newark. The city doesn't have nearly as much of an infrastructure as Newark has, or downtown institutions or activities going on. And there aren't nearly as many people who pour in every day to work. I think, given all this, that what Roger Dennis and Rutgers have done is even more remarkable.'' 
 What the campus in Camden does have going for it is political heft, since a preponderance of Democratic power brokers are from the Camden area -- including George Norcross III, the South Jersey Democratic boss whose reach extends to all corners of the state; Assembly Majority Leader Joe Roberts, who lives in this city's Cooper-Grant neighborhood; the deputy majority leader of the state Senate, Wayne Bryant; Assemblyman Lou Greenwald, chairman of Budget Committee; and State Senator John Adler, chairman of the Democratic conference and the Judiciary Committee. 
 Helped also by an aggressive posture in terms of economic redevelopment by the McGreevey administration, the city has been the beneficiary of a $175 rebuilding fund, on top of the more than $400 million it receives every year in governmental subsidies. And there has been a surge in new private speculation, including a controversial plan by a North Carolina company, Cherokee Investment Partners, for a billion-dollar redevelopment of the Cramer Hill neighborhood that includes retail shops, a golf course and 500 housing units. So despite the fact that the city government remains under state control because of financial insolvency -- as does the troubled Board of Education -- the city has been the beneficiary of such ambitious capital projects as a billion-dollar light rail system linking it with Trenton, the baseball stadium and some existing and planned university buildings that will anchor the neighborhood. 
 The goal of all this aid, other than keeping the city afloat, is to attract visitors and new residents alike -- whether they are suburbanites coming to a baseball game or students who might live in the city -- and to create jobs in an area that has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country at 16 percent, as against 5 percent statewide and 5.5 percent nationally. 
 ''We know that Camden has had all of the problems of other cities and few of the benefits,'' said Representative Rob Andrews, who represents Camden and is interested in running for governor next year. ''The best-case scenario, with all that's happening now, is that it creates 1,000 or 1,500 new jobs. That would make a big dent.''
 One result of these efforts to build up parts of the city has been that the area along Cooper Street that abuts the three college campuses is evolving into a true university district, which local and state officials hope will grow to resemble the area in West Philadelphia known as ''University City,'' home to the University of Pennsylvania, Drexel and the University of the Sciences. 
 So far, there has been a modicum of success. A growing number of students who attend Rutgers-Camden are now choosing to live on campus. University officials say that they are now at capacity with 550 students in housing on campus, and they estimate that there are 175 more living off-campus, up from just a handful several years ago. To meet the growing demand, Rutgers officials say there are plans to build three or four new dormitory buildings as soon as it can line up the financing. 
 ''I can tell you, having lived here 36 years, there are more college students visible walking the streets of downtown Camden now than ever before and also more Rutgers students living in this area than ever before,'' said Frank Fulbrook, a former mayoral candidate and activist who attended Rutgers-Camden and who now helps teach urban studies there.
 Mr. Fulbrook, who is renting several apartments to Rutgers students, said, ''Now, more and more investors are buying buildings around the campus to renovate them and rent them out to students.''
 There are signs that the growing student presence is having at least a small-scale ripple effect on local business. A pizzeria, a sub shop and a small bistro have recently opened in the vicinity; a new bookstore serves the students from the three colleges; and just off of Cooper Street another apartment building is draped with a red-lettered banner advertising space for students.
 ''Rutgers has been great because it's growing so much, and it's a solid foundation for us,'' said Aaron D. McCargo, executive chef and co-owner of McCargo's, a restaurant on Cooper Street. ''And people from other places have been coming here too.
 As Mr. McCargo -- who grew up in Camden within walking distance of his restaurant -- put it: ''There's a buzz around this neighborhood now. People are really excited that something like this is happening here.''
 And more changes are on the way. In line with efforts to fit in better with the surrounding community, by 2007 Rutgers is planning to move many of the functions of its massive law school building -- which bears more than a vague resemblance to a maximum-security prison -- to a new $31 million facility.
 In the meantime, right next to the Rutgers campus on the waterfront, there are more remarkable developments. An influx in private investment is transforming the city's waterfront into more of a residential area that is bordering on trendy, with new high-end housing and retail businesses. 
 ''There are eds and meds in Rutgers and Cooper,'' said Carl E. Dranoff -- a Philadelphia developer who spent $65 million converting the old Victor Talking Machine Company building into a 500,000-square-foot luxury apartment complex -- referring to Rutgers students and to the medical professionals at the Cooper University Hospital. ''Camden has what I call knowledge workers -- smart people who do research, teach, have think tanks. Typically, when universities bring people in to teach or attend, they need housing.''
 ''We felt that Rutgers as a state university, and as a university with the only law school in South Jersey, and with a business school, was the perfect clientele for our building,'' Mr. Dranoff said. ''In the long term, that's where the growth is.''
 Citing the location's convenience, improved infrastructure and views of the Philadelphia skyline, Mr. Dranoff now has plans to develop luxury condominiums nearby.
 For Mr. Dennis, the sound of jackhammers around Camden is music to his ears, and the university provost -- a federal prosecutor-turned-academic, has adopted the philosophy that his school can only prosper when the city does.
 ''Whatever benefits the community benefits the university,'' he said. ''By having viable neighborhoods surrounding us, it improves the safety and improves the atmosphere, and it creates a place for faculty and staff to live. It's self-interest: making the city a good place to go to school both in perception and reality.''
 Mr. Dennis even suggested that the school's location -- long assumed to be a limiting factor in its ability to attract quality students -- has become a selling point. 
 ''We're really trying to sell the opportunity that this neighborhood represents,'' said Mr. Dennis, citing pro bono work for law students and other volunteer programs. ''It's sometimes hard, because every time there's a good story about Camden there's also a bad one. But that's changing.''
 Still, to attract the sorts of students who have the luxury of going to school elsewhere -- many of whom are now being drawn from comfortable suburban areas in Camden, Gloucester and Burlington Counties -- Mr. Dennis and his colleagues understand that they must be able to demonstrate that there is a new and improved Camden, ''an urban, hip -- we hope -- kind of environment.'' 
 However the school succeeds in attracting students over the short term, there are still hard facts to face about Camden. It has one of highest homicide rates of any city in country, and remains one of the poorest. It relies heavily on government subsidies to maintain basic services. And regardless of the good things that are happening, it seems that the recovery is still localized within certain limited areas of gentrification.
 Mr. Fulbrook, who lives in the Cooper-Grant neighborhood, which has benefited mightily from improvements to Rutgers, said that he cannot envision the rest of the city catching up anytime soon, if ever. 
 ''I think this is becoming a classic tale of two cities,'' he said. ''The waterfront and downtown are becoming one way, which is great, but the rest of the city is now something completely different.''
 Pointing to the persistence of drug-related crimes in other parts of the city, he said, ''It's as if some parts of the city are becoming revitalized, but others are becoming devitalized at the same time.''
 Michelle Ofner, a law student who recently moved into the Victor building, said that she saw Camden improving, and that she was trying to play a small role by doing volunteer work in the community. 
 But Ms. Ofner, who grew up in nearby Delran, also said that while she was impressed by what was happening in the parts of the city where she lived and went to school, she was troubled by conditions in the rest of the city.
 ''Last semester I did a program through school where I got to teach law class at Camden High School,'' she said. ''It's only about a mile and half from where I'm living, but the neighborhoods were night and day. The contrast was unbelievable.'' 
 Demos Kousoulis, the longtime owner of George's Restaurant, said that Rutgers had definitely improved the neighborhood, but that his diner -- a couple of blocks from the university buildings on Cooper Street -- had not seen any more customers. ''The kids stay by the campus,'' Mr. Kousoulis said. ''They have a cafeteria. I don't really see any increase.''
 Even within Camden's growing university district, it still has a long way before it resembles Newark, let alone University City. 
 ''It's really nice now to be part of the neighborhood,'' said Bill Whitlow, a psychology professor who has taught at the university for 25 years, and who recently sold his apartment in Philadelphia and moved here. ''Camden used to be a very vibrant and active city, and even though the area around the university is just one kernel, its got a lot of people interested in bringing it back.''
 ''Of course,'' Professor Whitlow said, ''it's got a long way to go.'' 
 Or, as Mr. Dennis assessed it: ''There's been a tremendous amount of progress. We know it's going to take a lot more.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A campus in the shadow of the Ben Franklin Bridge. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Benjamin Franklin Bridge linking Camden and Philadelphia looms along the edge of the Rutgers University campus.
Downtown Camden is changing with the help of state aid and private development.
Rutgers-Camden is making efforts to shed its image of a walled-off frontier outpost.
 Roger J. Dennis, provost in Camden. (Photographs by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CRIME RATES (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); CORRUPTION (61%); ARSON (61%); HOMICIDE (61%); SUBURBS (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%) Rutgers, the State University

PERSON: Roger Dennis; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Camden (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



549 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2750 words

HEADLINE: Visions of an Another Trendy Enclave

BYLINE: By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: PENNSAUKEN 

 BODY:
A swampy river smell rises up from the weed-choked banks of the Delaware River. Oil tanks loom over the New Jersey shoreline and across the river in Philadelphia. Freight trains and 18 wheelers rumble in and out of warehouses set along the industrial waterfront.
 Now imagine a golf course and conference center with upscale shops and high-end townhouses for professionals and well-off empty nesters etched against the Oz-like backdrop of the Philadelphia skyline.
 ''We feel this waterfront is an undiscovered jewel,'' Mayor Rick Taylor of Pennsauken said. 
 Of course, one man's gem is another man's zircon, particularly in the case of this aging blue-collar town of about 36,000 that is struggling to fend off urban decline. 
 But in recent months, Mr. Taylor -- along with other township and state officials -- has taken to imagining this seven-mile stretch of riverfront real estate transformed by $1 billion in new development. And when coupled with a similar $1.2 billion project proposed for adjacent Camden, this stretch of Delaware River waterfront stands to become one of the most ambitious redevelopment projects ever undertaken in South Jersey.
 But despite those visions of a leisurely golf game topped off by a cold beer by the waterfront, this all-out battle plan to reinvent Pennsauken faces substantial financial and environmental obstacles, including the presence of a bald eagle nest improbably situated near an abandoned tank farm on an island in the middle of the Delaware. 
 Yet it is a vision infused with hope. ''It may be dumb luck, but bam!'' said Bill Orth, a committeeman here. ''We've been thinking about this for 22 years, and it seems like things might be falling into place.''
 Like many older municipalities in New Jersey, Pennsauken is at once fully developed yet desperate for new construction to help underwrite a tax burden increasingly carried by its 35,700 residents. With little open land available, the township has instead set out to redevelop choice parcels in the hope of drawing people back to Pennsauken from newer suburbs in the area.
 To some, the scheme seems too grand by half to ever become a reality.
 ''I don't think there's enough market for it,'' said Louis Parisi, a scrap metal dealer whose yard would be condemned to make way for the riverfront development. ''If it were going to transpire, the homes in Pennsauken would be thriving instead of at the point where there is this tremendous need to generate more tax revenue.'' 
 But clearly, not everyone is as pessimistic as Mr. Parisi. Robert Stern, the Manhattan architect who has designed a master plan for the waterfront here, said recently: ''It is fabulously ambitious, and it makes incredible sense. Once it is done, I think people will rub their eyes and say, 'Why didn't they do this 30 years ago?'''
 In addition to the proposal for the waterfront, county officials have in mind a $100 million plan, known as the Crossroads development, for 65 acres surrounding a tangle of highways leading to the Betsy Ross Bridge across the Delaware River in northern Pennsauken. 
 The development -- to be financed in part by $24 million from the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority -- will include a civic arena that will be home to a minor league ice hockey team, as well as hotels and shops.
 To clear the way for the sprawling project, which county officials hope to open by 2007, they plan to raze the current South Jersey Exposition Center and are uprooting 150 merchants whose stalls comprise the Pennsauken Mart, a 35-acre site bounded by a labyrinth of highways made up of State Routes 90 and 73 and U.S. Route 130. The mart, which caters to working-class shoppers, will close after this year's Christmas shopping season. 
 County officials are expected to name a developer for Crossroads by November, said Louis Cappelli, a Camden County freeholder and liaison to the Camden County Improvement Authority. 
 At the southern end of Pennsauken, in the meantime, the county is expected to break ground this fall on a $4.5 million boathouse on the Cooper River to house local crew teams.

'Pennsauken Is Hot'
 As Susan Bass Levin, commissioner of New Jersey's Department of Community Affairs and a former mayor of Cherry Hill, put it, ''Pennsauken is hot.''
 Of course, the fact that George Norcross III -- one of the state's Democratic power brokers -- grew up in Pennsauken has played a significant role in the township's redevelopment, especially to the chagrin of those who opposed building the hockey arena at the site of the mart. 
 ''It took 20 to 30 years to come to terms with the idea that the industrial era was over a long time ago,'' said Rick Rosan, president of the Urban Land Institute, a trade group for developers based in Washington. ''I don't think there's a city in the world that has a serious waterfront that isn't talking about redeveloping it.''
 Over the years, the Pennsauken waterfront has gone through several changes. The name Pennsauken comes from the Lenape word for tobacco pouch, because Indians traded tobacco along the Delaware here. Quaker farmers settled the area in the late 1600's, and in Colonial times elite Philadelphians established a hunting and fishing club on the waterfront. In the 18th century, slaves were traded on Petty's Island, the 392-acre tract in the Delaware midway between New Jersey and Philadelphia that later became a stop on the underground railroad -- and most recently has been home to the bald eagle nest.
 As the nation's economy shifted from agricultural to industry, the riverfront began to attract oil refineries and manufacturers of bricks, chemicals, varnish, and porcelain sinks and toilets. In the 1950's, the township -- hungry for new tax revenue -- began to develop large industrial parks using tax incentives that lured Ford Motor Company, Pepsi-Cola, International Harvester, and General Electric to Pennsauken.
 Inland, most of the 10-square-mile town was developing as a suburban destination for working-class residents from Camden and Philadelphia who were interested in owning a slightly larger slice of the American dream.
 These days, residential Pennsauken -- where in the 2000 Census the median household income was $47,538 -- is made up of a mix of housing styles, including single-family row homes, sprawling Victorians and 1960's ranchers. More reflective of the township, however, are the neighborhoods themselves, some of which are made up of three-story homes with gracious wrap-around porches and well-maintained lawns surround, while others are littered with abandoned and boarded-up homes.
 What is lacking in the town -- crisscrossed by four major highways -- is a clearly defined center. The business district on Westfield Avenue is serviceable, but not a destination like nearby Collingswood and Haddonfield. Many of the stores along Route 130, a 1960's precursor to today's discount shopping centers, are vacant or for sale.
 ''It is spread out,'' said Kay Rudderow, 70, who has lived in Pennsauken all her life and is treasurer of the township's historic Griffith Morgan house. ''To me, it is like a big wheel with a lot of spokes in it.''
 And within those spokes, the town maintains a workable racial and ethnic balance. According to the 2000 Census, Pennsauken was 55.5 percent white, 24.2 percent black, 14.3 percent Hispanic and 2.3 percent Vietnamese; foreign-born residents made up 7.9 percent of the population.
 ''There isn't one block in Pennsauken that doesn't have a mix of races on it,'' said Mrs. Rudderow. ''Pennsauken does have sections that are predominately African-American, but if you go block by block you have African-American, Puerto Rican, Vietnamese. It is not racially uptight.''
 As she explained: ''It's diverse. It's a working-class town, but people have a very strong loyalty to Pennsauken. A lot of people move from one area of Pennsauken to another. It gives them options.''
 The proposed waterfront development -- with homes starting at $250,000 -- would be an entirely new option.
 In the middle of this mix is Cherokee Investment Partners, a North Carolina company that specializes in redevelopment of environmentally tainted sites. Cherokee, which is already planning a billion-dollar redevelopment of a swath of Camden known as Cramer Hill, wants to build 2,650 new homes in Pennsauken, along with more than 500,000 square feet of office and retail space, a hotel and conference center, an aquatic center and an 18-hole golf course.
 The golf course, conference center and some of the homes would be situated on Petty's Island, while another cluster, called Quaker Cove, would be built near the recently opened stop on the River Line, a new commuter railroad linking Camden and Trenton that the township had fought for years on the ground that it would create unsafe crossings.
 These days, Mr. Taylor admits to a measure of myopia for not recognizing the possibilities that the River Line opened up
 ''We didn't see the whole picture,'' he said.
 Yet it is difficult to picture what Cherokee is proposing. For one thing, there is still an active oil storage terminal on the northern edge of the development site and other heavy industry clustered farther upriver. While the views of downtown Philadelphia can be dramatic from certain vantage points, most of the sight lines focus on industrial Philadelphia, including a chemical plant, shipping docks and more tank farms.
 But for his part, Thomas Darden, chief executive of Cherokee, says the sheer size of the proposal -- which would be phased in over 10 years -- would soften those industrial edges. ''A critical issue in urban design is a sense of place,'' Mr. Darden said. ''Scale is your friend if the place around you needs work.''
 While Cherokee's billion-dollar vision of Camden has enraged a number of residents there who would be displaced, residents here have for the most part welcomed Cherokee's proposal for their riverfront.
 ''I do have some feeling it would be a much needed improvement -- if in the development there is fair play and everybody reaps the benefits,'' said Gladys Pritchett, who has long been active in Pennsauken's black community.
 Bernie Kofoet, a Pennsauken resident whose sheet metal business in Camden may well be condemned for that city's proposed redevelopment, said: ''I'm excited about it. The land they're proposing to use is vacant, underdeveloped and overgrown with weeds.''
 Still, Pennsauken's ambitious plan faces numerous obstacles, including resistance from industries situated along the Delaware, and environmental concerns including a pair of bald eagles nesting on Petty's Island.
 ''No matter what happens, this is going to hurt me,'' said William Stech, owner of Standard Warehouse and Distributing Company, one of the landowners facing condemnation to make way for Cherokee's development. 
 And Mr. Parisi, the owner of the River Road Recycling Corporation, is facing his second relocation at the demand of the township in 15 years. He was forced to move once before after residential development grew around the yard and neighbors complained about truck traffic.
 He said he resents that the township is favoring Cherokee's business over his. ''Towns aren't supposed to be in business,'' he said.
 Three major oil companies -- Texaco, Amerada Hess and Citgo -- own most of the 700 acres being eyed for redevelopment. Texaco is already negotiating to sell 48 acres of an abandoned tank farm to the developers, which has aroused opposition from two major landowners.
 Amerada Hess Corporation, which owns an active petroleum storage facility with 29 tanks bordering the proposed development site, stands to lose 100 acres of buffer land extending from the tank farm to the river. While much of this parcel is vacant, Jay Wilson, the company's vice president for investor relations, said the land included a deep-water dock where tankers could pull up and pump fuel into pipes that feed the storage tanks.
 ''The land is zoned industrial,'' Mr. Wilson explained, ''and any residential or non-industrial development would make it hard for Amerada Hess or any other industry to operate in the area because of the conflicts when residents and industry are put side by side.''
 Yet perhaps the most reluctant landowner is Citgo, the owner of Petty's Island, which has abandoned storage tanks and a shipping terminal that it leases to a transport company.

Dispute Over Petty's Island
 And it is Petty's Island that first captured Cherokee's interest after Citgo decided to close down its operations there. But those plans were scuttled in 2002 when a bald eagle's nest was discovered on the island, said Jack McCrossin, Citgo's manager of environmental operations.
 ''It took us by surprise and quickly derailed the path that we were on with Cherokee,'' Mr. McCrossin said.
 Citgo now wants to improve the land itself and convert the island to a conservation area in return for a reduction in damages it owes the state for polluting the island and other sites in New Jersey, including Paulsboro and Linden.
 ''It's better for the environment and it's better for Citgo's business plan to have it proceed the way we're looking for it to proceed,'' Mr. McCrossin insisted.
 For now Bradley Campbell, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, is weighing Citgo's proposal.
 ''There are some who are casting doubt on the value of a conservation easement on areas that encompass a tank farm and existing maritime facility,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''Citgo deserves credit for the conservation proposal, but the merits here are not clear-cut one way or the other.''
 Faced with opposition from the state, Mr. McCrossin said Citgo would try a new approach. This time, he said, the company wants to donate the land to the New Jersey Natural Lands Trust -- a separate agency within the state Department of Environmental Protection, which plans to hold a public meeting this week to discuss the proposal.
 ''This would be a very generous donation,'' said Michael Catania, chairman of the trust.
 The tension between Citgo and Cherokee increased sharply after the death of an 11-week-old eaglet on the island in June. The eaglet, found beneath the nest, died while being moved to a raptor rescue center. At the time, state officials said they had discovered a tent nearby and suspected a person scared the eaglet out of its nest before it was ready to fly. In July, Cherokee acknowledged the tent belonged to an ornithologist it had hired to observe the island's wildlife. 
 Despite the dispute, Mr. Darden of Cherokee said he did not think the incident would derail the company's plans.
 ''We are proud, almost fanatical, about our contribution to the environment,'' he said. '' I was very saddened to see the whole focus on this issue.''
 He said Citgo's plan to make Petty's Island a nature preserve might not be as environmentally sound as it seemed, since the cleanup required for a preserve is less rigorous than for a golf course and residential development.
 ''The biggest environmental impact we have -- more than cleaning up pollution -- is changing land-use patterns,'' said Mr. Darden.
 Of course, Mr. Darden is not in business solely to change land-use patterns. Cherokee's investors expect to earn a profit from its real estate developments, and in this instance that is cause for some concern.

Market Oversaturated?
 Redevelopment of the former Garden State Race Track, a 286-acre site in nearby Cherry Hill, is already under way, and that could cut into demand for the Pennsauken project. But as for Cherokee's projects in Pennsauken and Camden, Mr. Dardsen said that they were designed to appeal to different audiences, with Pennsauken aiming at a higher-end market.
 And Mr. Stern, the architect of Pennsauken's waterfront plan, is confident.
 ''Nobody would undertake this project if they didn't believe soundly that this can come to pass,'' he said. ''This is not a bunch of ivy tower eggheads saying 'What If?''' 
 Mr. Taylor said he is not unconcerned that Cherokee might stall out with only part of the development finished. He said if this plan falls through, the waterfront location would be attractive to other developers.
 ''If it were inland I'd say that's a concern,'' he said, ''but the waterfront is worth its price in gold.''
 For Pennsauken, the timing seems right.
 ''I think there's a certain mass of energy behind it,'' said Mr. Kofoet. ''Time will tell whether everything they propose comes to fruition. If only a percentage does, it will still be an improvement.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''It's diverse,'' Kay Rudderow, right, a resident historian, says of Pennsauken. ''It's a working-class town, but people have a very strong loyalty to Pennsauken.'' Above, a of view of the township, framed by oil tanks and the Betsy Ross Bridge.
Not everyone in Pennsauken supports a plan by Cherokee Investment Partners of North Carolina to develop Petty's Island. Gladys Pritchett, above, a longtime resident of the township, says her father built many homes in the Pennsauken area.
 For Petty's Island, the future holds a nature preserve or golf course or neither. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 11)Drawing: An artist's rendering of Pennsauken, at left, and Petty's Island in the middle of the Delaware River. (Drawing by Cherokee Northeast)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPTY NESTERS (76%); TRAINS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RETAILERS (57%) Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Susan Warner; Rick (Mayor) Taylor; Robert A M Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsauken (NJ); Pennsauken (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



550 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Drop, and Then Go Up

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
THERE were some seesaw dramatics concerning the pace of house sales during the last two months of summer -- down in July, up again in August -- according to fresh numbers on signed contracts in the state's 18 largest counties.
 Meanwhile, the demand for housing in the state keeps growing, according to statistics and analysis from the Otteau Appraisal Group, a private company based in East Brunswick, which supplies information to the real estate industry.
 Demand keeps rising, according to Jeffrey G. Otteau, who heads the company, because the state's population keeps growing so fast. Referring to federal census figures and updates, Mr. Otteau noted that in the 1990's, New Jersey's population grew at a rate of 68,000 a year. But from 2000 through 2003 the pace of growth racheted up to about 75,000 new New Jerseyans a year -- a large proportion of them immigrants. 
 ''Of the 224,000 more people in the state during those three years,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''191,922 were foreign emigres.''
 Nationally, Mr. Otteau noted, foreign-born residents now account for about 12 percent of the population over age 25. He added that 27 percent of foreign-born residents hold bachelor's degrees, compared with 22 percent of those born in this country. Mr. Otteau said he had not been able to calculate precisely how that played out in New Jersey, but his advice to real estate professionals is, ''We are dealing with an educated population, part of the work force, who are moving into the housing market at a relatively young age.''
 During July, there was a distinct slowdown around the state in the number of contracts signed, as mortgage interest rates began to inch up and the number of houses put up for sale continued rising. There were 6 percent fewer contracts signed in July 2004 compared with July 2003, while there were 14 percent more homes on the market.
 But in August, while the supply of homes for sale remained 14 percent greater than last year, contract sales were up 10 percent over the previous August.
 For the year to date, sales contracts are up 8 percent compared with 2003, which was itself a record-setting year.
 These statistics are based on numbers of signed contracts, rather than the number of sales that have actually closed, which is the data that more widely reported multiple listing service reports employ.
 Statistics may shift slightly by the time the listing-service analyses become available, according to knowledgeable real estate brokers, as some deals fall through or are renegotiated. But reports on signed contracts provide early tips to brokers -- and homeowners and homebuyers, for that matter -- who try to stay on top of industry trends.
 The Otteau Group's July-August report shows that what heated the market back up again in August was very high demand for the lower-priced half of the residential market -- houses priced at roughly $500,000 and below.
 ''While I was expecting to see a drop in the number of home sales July to August, based on the June to July drop,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''instead, interest rates moderated, and there was a real surge in sales in lower-priced areas.''
 Those counties with the biggest increases in sales activity during August included Camden, Cumberland, Hunterdon, Ocean, Salem, Sussex and Warren.
 By contrast, places where homes are more expensive, such as Bergen, Essex, Monmouth, Morris, Somerset and Union Counties, had lower increases, or in some cases declines, in the number of home sales.
 First, the good news about this trend: ''The overall trend of continuing strong demand for homes is pretty clear,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''giving the New Jersey market good underlying dynamics across the state.''
 ''By the same token,'' he quickly added, ''once interest rates begin to rise further, the effect may be disproportionate on those buyers in the market who can afford the least -- and cause a more serious slowdown in sales.''
 In the state's poorest county, Camden, the number of contract sales were down 10 percent in July -- when interest rates had risen slightly -- compared with the previous July. In August, as interest rates dropped ever so slightly in New Jersey, the county registered a 19 percent increase in sales.
 At the beginning of August, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rate in the state dropped from about 5.75 percent to 5.5 percent, according to Otteau's analysis.
 Other things affect the picture in Camden County and elsewhere, of course. The inventory of housing for sale in Camden was up 32 percent compared with the previous year -- with strong redevelopment efforts including construction of hundreds of condominiums along the riverfront in the city of Camden, which has been identified as the state's poorest city for more than a decade.
 In more affluent Morris County, sales volume was sharply down from the year before -- 21 percent -- in July, and rebounded in August to 7 percent ahead of the previous August.
 In Bergen County, the number of contracts fell 16 percent from last year in July, and rose 1 percent in August. In Essex County there were declines in the number of contracts signed in both July and August, of 11 and 5 percent, respectively, compared with 2003.
 Mr. Otteau, who said he tries to keep national trends in mind when analyzing the New Jersey market, said that he sees three main factors driving its success right now -- and that all of them are expected to continue: the high rate of foreign immigration, migration from New York, and baby boomers buying vacation homes, particularly along the Jersey shore.
 The New York-to-New Jersey movement, which heightened after the Sept. 11 attack three years ago, is the second highest rate of interstate migration in the country -- just behind the rate of New Yorkers moving to Florida, according to updated federal census figures.
 In Ocean County, the hottest spot for new housing for over-55's, inventory is up 39 percent this year to date. 
 The Otteau report noted that although the general inventory of homes for sale is up 14 percent from a year ago, the inventory last year was ''drastically undersupplied.''
 Demand will continue to rise faster than new housing, Mr. Otteau predicted, citing diminishing land for construction, increasing land prices and increased regulation of development.


GRAPHIC: Photo: CHECKING OUT A LISTING -- Barbara Messenger, a sales associate at Zinn Associates Realtors, shows Brian Stymesta a home in Glen Ridge selling for $460,000. (Photo by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CENSUS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%) Housing; Sales

ORGANIZATION: Otteau Appraisal Group

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



551 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Of Airport Haves and Have-Nots

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Eric Dash contributed reporting from Pittsburgh for this article.

 BODY:
BRADFORD, Pa., has good reason to treasure its air service. Without it, the 10,000 people who live in the town, which is nestled in the Allegheny Mountains near Pennsylvania's border with New York, would face a drive of one hour -- maybe much more during bitter winter weather -- to reach another airport.
 The end of air service would spell trouble for workers at the big Zippo lighter plant, for students at the local branch of the University of Pittsburgh and for guests at the sprawling Glendorn resort, where visitors pay as much as $695 a day so they can fly-fish and skeet-shoot in utter privacy.
 But Bradford relies solely on US Airways flights, operated by Colgan Air, a regional airline, which continues to serve the town because it collects federal subsidies under the Essential Air Service program adopted after the industry was deregulated in 1978. And now that US Airways is operating under bankruptcy protection for a second time in two years and is slicing cities from its schedules, Bradford's air link to the world is in jeopardy. 
 Bradford is not alone in that prospect. In Pittsburgh, 125 miles to the southwest, US Airways is dismantling the hub that let residents fly directly to Frankfurt or reach dozens of cities across the United States, including Bradford. By year-end, the airline will offer half the flights from Pittsburgh that it had there in 1997.
 ''It's very frustrating: one week we think we have a city, and the next week, you don't have a city,'' said Kent George, the airport's executive director, referring to the destinations US Airways serves from Pittsburgh. 
 Martin M. Glesk, executive director of the Bradford Area Alliance, a business group, says the problem is even worse for small towns like his. ''We're the very tip of the tail,'' he said, ''and we're not wagging the dog.''
 With the industry losing billions of dollars each year, and half of the major airlines operating under bankruptcy protection or threatening to seek it, such uncertainty is becoming the norm. In searching for a business model that works, airlines are dropping some flights and routes while picking up others at a hectic pace rarely seen before. Loyalty to cities they have long served is a thing of the past, even if those cities are hubs like Pittsburgh, St. Louis, Dallas, Nashville and Raleigh, N.C. At many of those airports, the airlines have dropped dozens of flights. 
 ''Scrutiny is being made, at very harsh levels, of what an airline can afford to do,'' said Michael Allen, chief operating officer of Back Aviation Solutions, a consulting company.
 IN places where airlines are flocking to add service -- popular destinations like Florida, for example, or hub cities they want to protect from low-cost rivals -- passengers are benefiting mightily, often enjoying rock-bottom fares. But the changes are causing sleepless nights for airport officials in Bradford and other cities served by one airline that may pull up stakes at any moment. In those cities, consumers have no idea whether the flights they booked in July will still be in the airline's route system come Thanksgiving.
 That is especially true for the nation's weakest airlines, which are tearing up their old schedules and refocusing on cities that may generate more business. This month, Delta Air Lines, which has warned that it may be forced to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection if it cannot cut costs significantly, announced that it was dismantling its hub in Dallas in order to emphasize other hubs in Salt Lake City, Cincinnati and especially Atlanta, its hometown, where it is adding 80 daily flights. 
 That will mean a loss of 2,000 jobs in Dallas, and one less challenger for American and Southwest, both of which are based there. But those airlines offered far more service in Dallas than Delta did, because Delta did not have the resources to battle them head on. ''Obviously, with our current challenges, both financial and competitive, we're having to make some aggressive changes on using our assets,'' said Doug Blisset, Delta's senior vice president for network planning.
 Analysts say the airlines have little choice but to quickly abandon routes where their traffic does not justify a commitment. ''In the past, when there was not so much competition, you could afford to wait things out,'' said Darin C. Lee, senior managing director of LECG, an economic forecasting and consulting firm based in Cambridge, Mass. But with low-fare airlines cherry-picking the major carriers' most profitable markets, any delay on dropping money-losing routes ''means you could be in a situation where you put your whole airline at risk,'' he said.
 No company knows that better than US Airways, which filed for bankruptcy protection a second time on Sept. 12. It has taken a chainsaw to its schedules in hopes of carving a low-fare airline out of its voluminous East Coast route system. Much of that cutting has been done in Pittsburgh.
 Seven years ago, US Airways had more than 500 flights a day at Pittsburgh International -- 89.9 percent of all commercial service at the airport. By the end of this year, the airline will have just 228 daily flights there, Mr. George said.
 The airport, built to accommodate US Airways' once-vast ambitions, is becoming emptier by the day. Juan Avila, 39, of Pittsburgh, said his family could no longer fly on US Airways to Kansas City, Mo., his wife's hometown, because the airline had stopped flying there.
 Ticket prices, meanwhile, are spiking for some destinations and dropping for others as US Airways shifts its emphasis. Mr. Avila, a manager at Sanofi-Aventis, the pharmaceutical company, says a round-trip ticket to Baltimore costs him $700. But if he flew to Philadelphia, an hour's drive from Baltimore, the cost would be just $200. Prices for that route tumbled when Southwest, which also serves Baltimore, began service to Philadelphia in May. ''This is ridiculous,'' he said. 
 James Huscher, 38, of Hartford, says he has to travel on US Airways because it is the only carrier serving the small cities he visits as a pharmaceutical sales representative. But in the past year, Mr. Huscher said, he has repeatedly encountered canceled flights. The airline blames a shortage of crew members for the problem, but Mr. Huscher said he suspects that the flights were dropped because there were just too many empty seats on them.
 He said he missed being home for Valentine's Day this year because US Airways canceled two flights from Buffalo to Hartford. The closest the airline could send him was Newark, more than 100 miles away. So, despite his bank of frequent-flier miles -- 200,000 and counting -- he is now likely to drive more. ''You have flexibility that way,'' he said.
 Soon, that could be the only choice for him and many other travelers. Industry analysts, as well as US Airways' chairman, David G. Bronner, have warned that the airline could end up liquidating quickly if it cannot reduce its costs and find new investors. Last week, the airline said it planned to file a motion in federal bankruptcy court in Alexandria, Va., asking for emergency cuts in union members' pay.
 Seeking to blunt the effect of US Airways' cutbacks, Mr. George is courting five low-fare airlines that do not now serve Pittsburgh, including JetBlue, Frontier and Southwest. Such a move is not out of the question, said Gary C. Kelly, Southwest's chief executive. ''We have the good fortune of remaining profitable,'' he said, in a jab at competitors, ''and we're well prepared to move into abandoned territory.''
 But even Southwest has to be careful in choosing new destinations, and in deciding how many flights to offer, because it must fill 15 to 25 flights a day to and from any destination for the route to make money, Mr. Kelly said. Pittsburgh may qualify, but many of the nearly three dozen cities at risk of losing service if US Airways goes under, including Bradford, are too small for Southwest to consider. Bradford has three US Airways flights -- all to Pittsburgh -- each day.
 The climb in jet fuel prices this year is hastening airlines' decisions to leave cities where business has declined, Mr. Kelly said. ''If it was marginal before, and then fuel prices go up, now we can't afford to maintain a marginal market,'' hey said.
 Even so, expense can take a back seat when an airline believes it must protect its turf. All this year, for example, Northwest Airlines has been on a determined push to dominate cities in the Midwest. It is beefing up service from Indianapolis next month, and has added flights from Milwaukee and expanded operations at its hubs in Detroit and Minneapolis. Last week, Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota endorsed Northwest's plan to take over the main terminal at the Minneapolis airport, pushing competitors to a smaller building used primarily by charter airlines.
 Likewise, Delta is emphasizing Atlanta, building it into a superhub and spreading out its flights during the day so the airport is not jammed at certain times. The move comes as AirTran, a low-fare carrier, has increased flights in and out of the city.
 These developments lead Dr. Lee, the consultant, to say that the current environment is actually good for many travelers, who are finding lower fares and more choices. ''Even though it's been horrible for airlines, horrible for airline employees and horrible for airline investors, you have to think that the consumer is the big winner in all of this,'' he said.
 Others agree that travelers are benefiting -- at least those lucky enough to live in areas that low-cost airlines want to serve. The number of those areas is growing: low-cost airlines served 44 states in 2004, up from 14 in 1990, Dr. Lee said. But low-fare airlines make no pretense of offering comprehensive service. They focus on nonstop flights and consistently profitable routes.
 As traditional airlines are pushed to compete with their low-cost rivals, passengers in some cities -- the smaller hubs and thinner spokes of the hub-and-spoke model -- may find fewer flights and higher fares, if they continue to have service at all. ''Smaller cities are the most vulnerable,'' said Mr. Allen, the consultant.
 Mr. Blisset, the Delta planning executive, said the hub-and-spoke model that traditional airlines use actually protects smaller cities because passengers from them can go through a hub like Atlanta to hundreds of other destinations. 
 If Delta served only people who wanted to travel the 230 miles from Savannah, Ga., to Atlanta, for example, the service from Savannah would be minimal, he said. ''There is no way we could support 12 or 13 flights a day there if we did not have a hub in Atlanta,'' he said.
 CLEARLY, the business has changed from the one portrayed in old movies like ''Casablanca,'' in which customers at a crowded Moroccan cafe glance up as the afternoon flight to Lisbon roars overhead. ''Perhaps tomorrow, we'll be on that plane,'' a hopeful young refugee says wistfully.
 Back then, passengers may have been able to count on airlines to fly the same routes on the same schedule, day after day. But in the ruthless new airline industry, where no carrier is resoundingly healthy, such certainty has vanished. 
 ''I tell my board that there are no guarantees, because the whole industry is in such turmoil now,'' said Mr. Glesk, the development official in Bradford. ''I guess our hope and thought is that if US Airways does go under, there will be other airlines'' willing to serve the community, he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article in SundayBusiness today about the possibility of diminished air service to some cities misattributes an estimate of the flights US Airways will have each day at Pittsburgh International Airport by year-end. The estimate -- half the number of flights scheduled in 1997 -- is by Michael Allen, an industry consultant, not Kent George, the airport's executive director.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Steve Cole/Getty Images)Chart: ''Dude, Where's My Flight?''As low-cost airlines have been growing, giving consumers more choices . . .Maps of the United States highlighting the expansion of low-cost airlines (percentage of domestic passengers with access to low-cost airlines) in 1990, 1995, and 2003.. . the major airlines have reduced many fares to avoid losing customers . . .Changes to major airlinesPercentage changes in average one-way fares and daily passengers for the first quarter of 1999 to the first quarter of 2004 for each airline's top three routes.AMERICANMiami - New YorkFARES: -13%PASSENGERS: +2%Los Angeles - New YorkFARES: -27PASSENGERS: +5Chicago - New YorkFARES: -19PASSENGERS: +7CONTINENTALMiami - New YorkFARES: -2%PASSENGERS: -5%Orlando - New YorkFARES: +10%PASSENGERS: -4New York - HoustonFARES: -14PASSENGERS: +7DELTANew York - AtlantaFARES: -15%PASSENGERS: +17%Miami - New YorkFARES: -19PASSENGERS: +54Washington - AtlantaFARES: -11PASSENGERS: +1NORTHWESTNew York - DetroitFARES: 0PASSENGERS: +4%Chicago - Minneapolis/St. PaulFARES: -21%PASSENGERS: 0Minneapolis/St. Paul - New YorkFARES: 0PASSENGERS: +4UNITEDChicago - WashingtonFARES: +5%PASSENGERS: -10%San Francisco - Los AngelesFARES: +68PASSENGERS: -75Chicago - New YorkFARES: -25%PASSENGERS: -27US AIRWAYSWashington - BostonFARES: +55%PASSENGERS: -66%New York - WashingtonFARES: -8%PASSENGERS: -33Philadelphia - OrlandoFARES: -10PASSENGERS: 0. . . and have cut flights, even to some big cities, that were only marginally profitable.Airports with reduced serviceData for airports with an average of at least 100 daily departures that have lost at least 15 percent of departures since 1994.Airport: St. LouisPeak month of average departures: Oct. 97Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -50%Airport: PittsburghPeak month of average departures: Aug. 01Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -47Airport: MiamiPeak month of average departures: March 95Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -35Airport: Dallas (Love Field)Peak month of average departures: Oct. 00Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -32Airport: NashvillePeak month of average departures: Aug. 94Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -31Airport: Kansas City (Mo.)Peak month of average departures: Aug. 01Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -31Airport: BostonPeak month of average departures: Aug. 01Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -30Airport: San FranciscoPeak month of average departures: Oct. 99Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -30Airport: San JuanPeak month of average departures: Jan. 00Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -28Airport: Ontario (Calif.)Peak month of average departures: Aug. 94Change from peak through Dec. 04*: -28*Scheduled(Sources by www.darinlee.net
 Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AIR SERVICE (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CITIES (78%); DEREGULATION (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airports

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



552 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Indian Web Sales Of Taxless Tobacco Face New Pressure

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

DATELINE: IRVING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Many people would love to put Larry Ballagh out of business. All antismoking groups, for instance. The National Association of Convenience Stores, too.
 New York lawmakers would happily close him down. So would the attorneys general of most states. 
 The reason for all this animosity is that Mr. Ballagh, a hefty 65-year-old of half-Irish, half-Seneca American Indian stock, sells cigarettes nationwide over the Internet, free of state excise and sales taxes that can add as much $3 a pack to the cost of smoking. 
 The bustle in his offices on the Cattaraugus territory of the Seneca reservation here attests to the brisk growth of his business. There's the new extension to the warehouse, the high stacks of cigarette cartons, the huge piles of empty ''Priority Mail'' boxes waiting to be loaded and dispatched.
 But as his venture has grown, so has the opposition to his trade. Fast-growing online sales of untaxed cigarettes -- available for less than $25 a carton over the Internet compared with about $65 in New York City -- are provoking a stampede of protests from a disparate collection of antitobacco groups, cash-strapped state governments and local retailers. These groups are hard at work in the courts, legislatures and in Washington to try to end the practice. 
 Earlier this year, the New York state legislature passed a law intended to force collection of excise taxes on tobacco and fuel sold by Native Americans to non-Indians. New York City, which estimates it loses hundreds of millions of dollars a year from untaxed cigarettes, is cobbling together a legal strategy that it could use against Indian tribes by characterizing the Internet sales as mail fraud. The revenue department of Washington State -- which has successfully sued nontribal online vendors -- is mulling lawsuits against Indian retailers. 
 The campaign has marshaled forces on Capitol Hill as well. Last December, the Senate passed a bill to stamp out untaxed cigarette sales over the Internet, and the organization representing state attorneys general is urging the House to do the same.
 The trade group for convenience stores, meanwhile, has been lobbying intently for a different House bill that would take a harsher stance, explicitly allowing states to take Indian nations to court. 
 The widespread government hostility, however, has not dented the Ballagh family business. ''We are adding about 80 to 100 new customers a month,'' said Charles Ballagh, Larry Ballagh's son and partner. At that rate, their venture would double in size in about two years. 
 Larry Ballagh's business remains hard to crack because it operates behind tribal sovereignty. States are generally barred by treaties from taxing Indian tribes or enforcing other laws against their activities. Businesses operated by American Indians have long taken advantage of this protection to sell tax-free tobacco products in reservation shops to non-Indians.
 But the Internet has allowed the Seneca entrepreneurs to take their business to a new level. That has intensified the debate over the legality of such commerce, which has taken off in recent years as many states have sharply increased taxes on cigarettes. 
 Today, Mr. Ballagh regularly advertises in ''Pennysaver'' shopping sheets in states with high excise taxes. From Web sites like Mr. Ballaghs's travelingsmoke.com, and others like Senecahawk.com and Senecatabacco.com, smokers can buy cartons of Marlboro and Camel for as little as $24.25, compared to about $58 in a Hoboken, N.J., convenience store and $49 at a supermarket in Seattle. 
 At least a decade worth of rulings, ranging up to the Supreme Court, have determined that while states cannot tax Indian commerce, they can collect taxes on purchases by non-Indians from Native American businesses. States have limited power to enforce these decisions, however. Some tribes in other parts of the country defused the issue by negotiating deals with state governments to collect tribal taxes and eliminate their retailers' competitive advantage. 
 By contrast, the 7,500 Seneca, most of them living on the Allegany and Cattaraugus reservations in western New York, have dug in their heels. ''Cigarettes have raised our standard of living,'' said Rickey Armstrong Sr., the president of the Seneca nation.
 Even armed with a favorable court decision, Gov. George E. Pataki pulled back from a New York State plan in 1997 to tax Indian sales of cigarettes and gas after Seneca tribal members blocked traffic on the main state highway near their reservation. ''We were out there, nose to nose, with state troopers,'' Mr. Ballagh said.
 The Seneca are prepared for a long fight. Besides their official legal status, they also claim to have a unique exemption from taxes written into their treaty with the United States in 1842. They have recently launched marketing campaigns and hired lobbyists in Washington and Albany to defend their position.
 ''Break a treaty, break a law,'' reads a billboard on State Highway 86 on the Allegany reservation. 
 There are no precise figures on the size of the online tobacco market, but it is clearly growing rapidly. A report by Robert Campagnino, an analyst for Prudential Securities, estimated that about 2 percent of the 20 billion packs of cigarettes sold in 2002 were purchased over the Internet; Mr. Campagnino said that the figure today is probably around 3 percent.
 Six percent of New York City smokers buy their cigarettes online, according to a 2003 survey by the city's health department. Eric Proshansky, a lawyer for the city who has been pursuing online cigarette retailers, said that one large Internet operation sold 41 million cartons of cigarettes nationwide in a little over four years. Somewhat under 10 percent of those, he estimated, were sold in New York City, costing the city and state over $160 million in lost tax revenues. 
 Not all of these cigarettes come from Indian reservations. Non-Indian entrepreneurs in low-tax states like Virginia, where the excise tax on cigarettes is 20 cents a pack, have made a hefty profit selling cigarettes to smokers in high-tax states. 
 Foreign suppliers have also jumped into the business, shipping duty-free cigarettes to American customers. Officials in New York suspect that some non-Indian online retailers operate under the guise of Indian outfits. And illegal sales of untaxed cigarettes, run by criminal gangs, are not uncommon. 
 Yet sales from Indian reservations, particularly from the Seneca lands, clearly account for a big portion of the growing business. A study commissioned by the Seneca tribal government found that Seneca cigarette sales totaled $347 million last year. About 95 percent were sold via the Internet or phone; the balance was accounted for by sales from the smoke shops that dot Seneca lands.
 And they are much harder to curb than non-Indian businesses. Washington State's attorney general has taken nontribal online cigarette retailers to court, but he has so far avoided suing Indian operations. ''With tribal sellers, we have in the first instance taken a diplomatic, government-to-government approach,'' said David Horn, an assistant attorney general for the state.
 Philip Morris has sued foreign and nontribal Internet tobacco retailers, but no Indian ones. 
 A project led by Kurt M. Ribisl of the University of North Carolina's School of Public Health found 725 English-language Web sites selling cigarettes last January. He tracked 403 to specific locations: 42 percent were American Indian sites, 33 percent nontribal sites in the United States and 25 percent foreign-based. Of the 168 Web sites operating from tribal lands, New York Seneca entrepreneurs ran at least 126.
 Among the most vociferous opponents of the online retailers are the nation's 130,000 or so convenience stores; cigarettes account for about 40 percent of nongasoline sales. Stores along the borders of reservations have complained of the Indians' tax advantage for years. The Internet spread the pain. 
 ''It changed the dynamic,'' said Lyle Beckwith, senior vice president for government relations at the National Association of Convenience Stores. ''Now it affects retailers all over the country, not just in some states.''
 The amount of commerce bypassing state taxes is growing fast. Since 2002, 35 states have sharply increased their excise taxes to shore up their budgets and as a public health measure to encourage more smokers to quit.
 Connecticut, for instance, increased its tobacco excise tax twice, from 61 cents to $1.51 a pack. In July, Michigan increased its tax from $1.25 to $2. 
 When taxes were raised in the past, most smokers would pay the increased price and keep smoking. Some quit. But today, according to a forthcoming research paper by Austan Goolsbee, an economist at the University of Chicago, and Joel Slemrod, a professor at the University of Michigan, many more smokers, rather than pay up or give up smoking, buy untaxed cigarettes online instead. 
 In 2002, New Jersey raised its tobacco excise tax from 80 cents to $1.50 a pack, one of the highest rates in the country at the time. The share of smokers who said they had bought cigarettes online jumped to 6.7 percent from 1.1 percent two years earlier, according to a survey by researchers at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.
 In the end, though, the online tobacco business may be stamped out -- or put under tighter control -- by the combined weight of its opponents. 
 There is already a law on the books that could curtail the practice. The Jenkins Act requires retailers who ship cigarettes to smokers in other states to provide state governments with a list of their customers so they can collect excise taxes directly. Properly enforced, it would eliminate incentives to buy cigarettes online. 
 The law is mostly ignored by retailers, though, and rarely enforced by the federal government.
 Last December, the Senate unanimously passed a bill to strengthen it by barring cigarettes from being mailed, along with other provisions. To obtain the support of Native American tribes, the bill explicitly said it would not affect Indian nations' sovereign status.
 ''We think it's a pretty good bill,'' said John Dossett, general counsel of the National Congress of American Indians. ''There are sections in there that protect our interests.'' 
 But the legislation's future is uncertain. The House has failed to act on it. Carriers like U.P.S. oppose a provision requiring them to check whether a package includes tobacco. And the association of convenience stores, hoping to win support for a tougher bill, objects to the clause protecting Indian sovereignty.
 ''If you don't deal with the Indians,'' Mr. Beckwith said, ''you don't solve the Internet tobacco problem.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Ballagh and his family have a thriving business of selling untaxed cigarettes over the Internet.
 Smoke shops on Indian reservations are exempt from taxes. (Photos by Daniel Cappellazzo for The New York Times)(pg. 29)Map of New York highlighting Irving: Irving, in upstate New York, is in the Cattaraugus territory. (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EXCISE TAX (90%); SMOKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); LOBBYING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERNET SALES TAX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%) Taxation; Computers and the Internet; Smoking and Tobacco; Indians, American; Sales Tax; Excise Taxes; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CONVENIENCE STORES (84%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



553 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-23

Iraqi Guard Applicants Killed
Seven Iraqi men applying for jobs with the Iraqi National Guard were ambushed and killed in western Baghdad, while the United States military said four marines and a soldier had been killed over 24 hours. Meanwhile, the military said it had conducted an airstrike in Falluja to kill militants holding a meeting. 8

North Korea Talks in Doubt
Multinational talks about North Korea's nuclear facilities did not resume, putting the future of the talks in doubt. 17

Britain Offers Debt Aid
Britain is planning a new effort to help impoverished third world countries reduce their huge debts by offering to pay off 10 percent of the total owed to international agencies and challenging other nations to follow suit, said the Chancellor of the Exchequer. 20

NATIONAL 24-34

4th Hurricane Hits Florida
Hurricane Jeanne, a Category 3 storm with winds of 115 miles an hour, struck Florida's east coast. Two million Floridians were urged to evacuate. 24

Roughly 68,000 people in Pensacola remain without electricity and much of the city remains without sewage service more after Hurricane Ivan washed through the city. 24

New Voters in 2 Swing States
A voter registration campaign in heavily Democratic areas has added tens of thousands of new voters to the rolls in Ohio and Florida, a surge that has far exceeded Republican efforts, a review of data shows. 1

Guantanamo Trial Challenges
Officials acknowledge that the first full war crimes trial before a military tribunal at Guantanamo is in turmoil and say there will be substantial changes made in coming weeks. 29

Corporate Medicare Rivals
The new Medicare law, under which Medicare will rely on private health plans, has touched off a battle between insurance companies and drug companies that could determine how many medicines will be available to Medicare beneficiaries. 1

OBITUARIES 44-45

NEW YORK/REGION 37-43

Race Tightens in New Jersey
Republicans have succeeded in gaining points in New Jersey, a perennially Democratic state, based on the war on terror. The gains have been made despite disapproval by a majority of its residents of President Bush's performance in office and his stance on the war in Iraq, health care, the economy and gay marriage. 37

4 Die in Fiery Car Wreck
Four teenagers celebrating their 17-year-old friend's getting a new driver's license died in a fiery car accident on Long Island when a drunken driver crashed into their Honda sedan, the Nassau County police said. After being hit on its side, the Honda careered into a telephone pole and exploded. 39

Chess 43
Weather 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); TERRORISM (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INSURANCE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SEDANS (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (64%); WAR CRIMES (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



554 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: A Continuing Shame

 BODY:
Native Americans came in great numbers to Washington last week, partly to celebrate, partly to correct a historic injustice. The occasion was the opening of the National Museum of the American Indian on the National Mall -- a vivid reminder of the profound cultural and symbolic legacy of America's indigenous peoples. In the background, however, was a continuing lawsuit, whose purpose is to restore to the Indians assets and revenues that are rightfully theirs. 
 Specifically, the suit seeks a proper accounting of a huge trust established more than a century ago when Congress broke up reservation lands into individual allotments. The trust was intended to manage the revenues owed to individual Indians from oil leases, timber leases and other activities. Yet a century of disarray and dishonesty by the federal government, particularly the Interior Department, whose job it is to administer the trust, has shortchanged generations of Indians and threatens to shortchange some half million more -- the present beneficiaries of the trust.
 Many of the beneficiaries hold minutely fractionated interests in land that has been passed down from generation to generation. But no one really grasps the true dimensions of the trust because the value of those leases and royalties is unclear, and because there has never been a real accounting of the money paid into or out of it. What has become clear is that Indians were often paid far less for leases on their property than whites were for comparable property. 
 Those who examine the trust -- including members of Congress -- come away stunned by how badly and how fraudulently it has been handled. Records have been lost and purposely destroyed. Even a conservative guess of the amount owed to Indians from the trust runs as high as the tens of billions of dollars. Ineffectual plans to reform the trust have been drawn up by the Interior Department. But instead of working to provide a historical accounting of the trust, as required, Interior officials point to concern in Congress that the cost of an accounting is likely to reach $3 billion, with no guarantee that it will actually find anything. In other words, the department wants to conclude in advance that very little is likely to be owed to anyone. 
 The plaintiffs have won in court every step of the way. Interior officials have repeatedly been placed under sanctions for misconduct and malfeasance. So far Interior has worked as hard to discredit the judge in the case, Royce Lamberth, as it has to actually fix the problem. The department essentially argues that the judiciary has no business telling the executive branch how to do its business. But the department has had more than a century to get this right. 
 These are not abstract issues. This is a case about real money owed to real people. The central question is simply: Who has profited from economic activity on the individual Indian trust lands? Certainly not the Indians who owned them. The only real reason to block a historical accounting of this trust -- and real reform -- is to block the real answer to that question.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ROYALTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (74%); MISCONDUCT (71%); JUDGES (71%); OIL & GAS LEASES (69%) Indians, American; Editorials; Suits and Litigation; Trust Funds; Frauds and Swindling

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (84%) Interior Department (Us)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



555 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAYMONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Climbing Down from the S.U.V., and Liking the View

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

 BODY:
WHEN Stafford Coakley went shopping for a new vehicle a year ago, he knew exactly what he didn't want: another sport utility vehicle. After driving a 1999 Nissan Pathfinder for three years, he said, he had had enough of the high cost of filling it with gasoline and what he considered an uncomfortable ride on his commute. And he had come to realize that there was not much more space in his Pathfinder than there was in many sedans.
 ''As an everyday vehicle, an S.U.V. just wasn't what I needed,'' said Mr. Coakley, an environmental engineer with the United States Army who lives in Baltimore. ''When I combined the cost of gas with the insurance and the maintenance, it was getting too expensive.'' 
 So he ended up with a shiny black Mazda 6, a stylish take on the family sedan. While he does not regret the choice, his three children still think the Pathfinder had more room in the back seat. 
 Mr. Coakley said the inside of an S.U.V. seemed far bigger than that of most cars because of an optical illusion. ''It's just that it had higher ceilings,'' he said. Sedans' fold-down back seats add carrying capacity, he added, and the trunk lid opens ''to 90 degrees, so there's far more usable space.'' Indeed, in terms of legroom, the Mazda's back seat offers more: 36.5 inches to 31.8 for the Pathfinder, according to Edmunds.com. 
 While there has not been a stampede of consumers out of S.U.V.'s -- one of the auto industry's most popular and profitable segments -- there are signs that their popularity is weakening. The market share of some popular S.U.V. models has declined even as that for some new station wagons, which have some S.U.V.-like features, has climbed. 
 According to the Autodata Corporation, the market share of the Ford Explorer dropped to 8 percent of the light truck market in the first eight months of 2004, versus 9 percent in the same period last year. The Jeep Grand Cherokee, meanwhile, slipped to 4.2 percent from 4.7 percent. By contrast, the market share of the Chrysler Pacifica, a large wagon, has almost doubled, to 1.8 percent of the light truck market.
 Several factors are at work. Although gasoline prices are down from their peak in May of $2.07 a gallon, on average, for self-serve unleaded regular, they still averaged $1.86 a gallon on Sept. 10, according to the Lundberg Survey. In many places, the price remains above $2. 
 And new safety warnings about the stability of truck-based sport utilities, especially in rollover ratings, have some people reassessing their belief that S.U.V.'s are safer. Such safety issues are starting to outweigh what many people say drew them to S.U.V.'s: the bad-weather traction of four-wheel drive and the ability to drive on rough terrain. 
 Finally, some new vehicles offer many of the cargo-carrying, people-hauling capabilities of an S.U.V. without the downsides. ''Americans like big cars with plenty of space to put their stuff,'' said David Champion, director of automotive testing at Consumer Reports, which published an article in September about vehicles that try to combine fuel efficiency with cargo capacity. His team found that just because a vehicle looks big doesn't mean it has a lot of cargo space.
 The Grand Cherokee, from DaimlerChrysler, ''has been a perennial favorite, but we found that it had less space than a Volkswagen Passat wagon,'' Mr. Champion said.
 Industry executives have been pointing out for months that S.U.V. sales have not taken a big hit. ''It's not obvious that there's been a shift taking place, but that doesn't mean there is no impact from gas prices,'' said George Pipas, chief sales analyst at Ford Motor, during a telephone conference call to discuss August sales. ''The impact may be muted by other factors, such as incentives.'' 
 Incentives for buyers of large S.U.V.'s have hit new highs this year. Edmunds.com, an automotive research Web site, estimated that big vehicles like the Ford Expedition and the Chevrolet Suburban from General Motors carried incentives with the highest average value -- $4,821 -- in August, versus an average of $2,721 for all vehicles.
 Despite those incentives, consumers are being drawn to new classes of vehicles, like the car-based utility wagons known as crossovers, that try to marry the benefits of cars, trucks and minivans. Some people, like Mr. Coakley, are even turning to an old standby -- the family sedan -- as they search for vehicles that can do everything an S.U.V. does, without the drawbacks. 
 Brian Moody, the road test editor at Edmunds.com, says he expects that a new set of vehicles just hitting the market will at least make more people rethink their decisions to buy S.U.V.'s. 
 ''Take the new Dodge Magnum,'' he said. ''It's basically a full-size station wagon, but it looks really cool, with tons of interior space.'' 
 He also pointed to new offerings from Ford and G.M. that have some features of S.U.V.'s -- including their aggressive look -- but have better fuel economy, softer rides and as much space, if not more. 
 The Buick Terraza -- one of G.M.'s newest sport vans (its new name for its minivans) -- comes with a black grill that is intended to make it look more like a tough truck. But it comes with the double sliding doors of a minivan and seating for seven. 
 Ford's Freestyle is aiming for some of the S.U.V. look, without the harsh ride or poor handling. It has the same chassis as Ford's new sedan, the Five Hundred. The Terraza and Freestyle go on sale this fall. 
 Both vehicles are much like the updated versions of the old station wagon that Ann Bowman, 41, considered when she went shopping earlier this year to replace her aging Toyota Camry after her second child was born. ''We looked at the Volkswagen and Audi wagons and the Volvo for certain,'' she said. ''But every time we would drive one, I'd think, 'My Camry has more room than these wagons.''' 
 She ended up trading it in for another Camry. ''It just got better gas mileage than any of the wagons or the sport utility vehicles,'' she said. With gasoline prices still more than $2 a gallon in Santa Monica, Calif., where she lives, buying another sedan was an easy decision. 
 MARK RHEE traded in his Ford Expedition for an Audi A4, which gets nearly twice as many miles a gallon in highway driving. ''It cost me $100 each week to fill up the Expedition,'' said Mr. Rhee, who commutes close to 30 miles a day, from northern Glendale, Calif., to Century City in Los Angeles. ''I don't expect that gas is going to go below $2 for the foreseeable future.'' 
 Other considerations drew Lon Frye, of Erin, Wis., away from the sport utilities he had driven for close to two decades. ''I started out with a 1978 Bronco in 1986, and my last S.U.V. was a 1998 Toyota 4Runner Limited,'' Mr. Frye said. ''I finally had grown tired of that trucklike ride, and there were the safety factors to consider.'' 
 Mr. Frye, 63, a retired executive of a technical publishing and training company, chose a vehicle that in some ways is the antithesis of a sport utility: the low-slung Chrysler 300C sedan with a 340-horsepower Hemi engine. ''The 300 is loaded with safety features,'' he said. For instance, the engine is designed to move and break free in a front-end collision so the force of the impact doesn't carry through the vehicle. 
 Mr. Frye says he knows that many people, even his wife, think that sport utilities are safer than cars. ''Lots of women like S.U.V.'s -- they can look down on traffic,'' he said. ''But what happens when you have to make a quick maneuver? I feel safer in a sports car than I did in my Toyota.'' 
 There is another reason Mr. Frye is enamored of his 300C. ''I hate to say this, but I like people to look at my car,'' he said. ''I never bought an S.U.V. with that in mind. But the 300C definitely turns heads.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lon Frye with his new Chrysler 300C. He bought the car after driving S.U.V.'s for almost two decades. ''I finally had grown tired of that trucklike ride,'' Mr. Frye said. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)Chart/Photos: ''QUICK READ''If a conventional S.U.V. is not right for you, here are options:GAS-SIPPING CARGO HAULERSToyota Scion xB, above: Toyota introduced the boxy xB nationwide this year to help it gain traction in the youth market. But its interior space 33.5 cubic feet, as measured by Consumer Reports coupled with its overall fuel economy of 30 miles per gallon may make it a good choice if you want a lot of space and a tiny fuel bill. Other options: Pontiac Vibe, Volkswagen Jetta wagon.STRONG SAFETY RATINGSChrysler Pacifica, right: This big station wagon had a slow start, but it is selling better now and has just received the highest safety rating for its class. It has a lower rollover risk than many S.U.V.'s. Other options: Toyota Sienna, Mazda MPV.BAD-WEATHER OPTIONSSubaru Forester, above right: This wagon has more ground clearance than a typical wagon and has standard allwheel drive, taking you most places you need to go. It also gets 21 miles a gallon and has 35.5 cubic feet of cargo space, as measured by Consumer Reports. Other options: Volvo XC70, Toyota Matrix with allwheel drive.THE S.U.V. LOOKBuick Terraza, right
 Ford Freestyle: If you must have something that looks like an S.U.V., without some of the drawbacks, the options are expanding. These Buick and Ford vehicles, coming out this fall, offer considerable cargo space with carlike handling. Other options: Honda Pilot, Toyota Highlander.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); CLIMBING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET SHARE (85%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); FAMILY (74%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); ARMIES (56%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobile Safety Features and Defects

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

PERSON: Fara Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



556 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: In Dying Desert Town, Residents Eagerly Await 'Terror Attacks'

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: PLAYAS, N.M., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The Phelps Dodge mining company pictured a suburban utopia with a Southwestern flavor when it built this town for its employees from scratch in the early 1970's. It incorporated a six-lane bowling alley, a rodeo ring, a helicopter pad, a shooting range and a swimming pool into the community of 259 ranch-style homes. 
 But the company shut its nearby copper smelter because of sluggish prices in the late 1990's. And these days, more animals than people can be found wandering the streets. 
 Quail, javelinas and the occasional mountain lion strut through empty cul-de-sacs with names like Chaparral, Lomitas and Ocotillo. Weeds and creosote bush poke through the asphalt.
 So the residents of Playas, all 50 or so of those remaining from the peak of 1,000, say they are more than ready for their town to become a target for pickups laden with explosives and simulations of suicide bombs, water-supply poisoning and anthrax attacks. 
 In what might be the beginning of Playas's renaissance, the Department of Homeland Security is channeling $5 million to a small New Mexico engineering school to buy the entire town. The school, in turn, aims to turn the town into one of the country's top locations for antiterrorism training. 
 ''I wish they'd hurry up and start hiring people,'' Carol Davis, 51, a part-time emergency medical technician, said in front of her spacious home, with the Chiricahua Mountains in the distance. ''It's too quiet out here right now. I'd like a job driving an ambulance or something.''
 No one denies that steady jobs are scarce. A sign hanging on the Western Bank window sums up the level of local economic activity: ''Bank hours: Friday only, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Drive-thru only.'' 
 Ms. Davis's husband, Alan, is part of a skeleton crew of 13 Phelps Dodge employees who watch over the shuttered smelter 10 miles south of town, ensuring that electricity and water still flow to the facility, which is on standby status. The smelter, about 40 miles north of the Mexican border, is called ''La estrella del norte'' (''star of the north'') by migrants using its flashing lights as a beacon for crossings into the United States. 
 The isolation of Playas is part of the allure for New Mexico Tech, which expects to complete the purchase in the next few weeks.
 The town is nestled in the empty desert plains, near where Gen. John J. Pershing once searched in vain for Pancho Villa, the Mexican revolutionary and bandit who attacked the border town of Columbus in 1916. The nearest city, El Paso, is three hours away on a winding highway where every other automobile seems to be a sport utility vehicle operated by the Border Patrol.
 ''Playas is not your typical ghost town with a saloon and a couple of storefronts, which is what made it so attractive to us,'' said Van Romero, vice president for research and economic development at New Mexico Tech, based in the town of Socorro, about 75 miles south of Albuquerque.
 The university, which has 1,800 students, has undergone its own transformation in recent years, training more than 90,000 emergency workers to respond to terror attacks since the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. Begun in the late 19th century as the New Mexico School of Mines for mining engineers, it was renamed the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, reflecting in part its new mission. Altogether, it is receiving $20 million in grants from the Department of Homeland Security for antiterrorism programs.
 Playas will be used mostly to train security, medical and military personnel to prevent attacks as well as respond to them. ''The town has all the characteristics of a contemporary American community: the churches, the bank, the health clinic, even the baseball diamonds,'' Mr. Romero said. ''Plus, it's mainly empty.''
 It also has some unusual features for a town its size. Amenities include an airstrip capable of handling small jets and underground electric wiring connecting every home to the grid. There is also the Feelgood Lounge, the town's watering hole, and the Copper Pins bowling alley. Phelps Dodge is including about 1,200 acres of land surrounding Playas in the sale. 
 The lack of skyscrapers is not considered a problem. Mr. Romero said he would leave those simulations to Texas A&M, which operates a facility in College Station, Tex., called Disaster City, where high-rises can be collapsed in a mock disaster setting.
 Some in town remain wistful about the Playas they knew. ''We used to be a place where all the families looked after each other,'' said Cheryl Wright, 49, an accountant and a third-generation Phelps Dodge employee. ''There was a South African wife of one of the supervisors who used to have teas on her lawn for all the wives. It was so idyllic then; now it's kind of dull.''
 Many houses are slowly being eroded by the sandstorms that ravage the ''boot-heel'' part of New Mexico. The doors of some homes have been kicked in by migrants looking for a place to escape the elements. 
 Still, Playas is cheap for those who remain. The Phelps Dodge employees pay the company just $50 a month in rent for subsidized homes, some sprawling over more than 2,000 square feet, while those who do not work directly for the company pay about $350 a month. 
 A little anxiety creeps into the conversation when locals discuss their future jobs. 
 ''I'd like to know what they're going to do with us,'' said James Noel, 57, a subcontractor who tends the lawns and thickets of prickly-pear cactus at the entrance to Playas. ''I like it out here, the wide-open spaces. I'd like to stay.''
 Mr. Romero, the administrator at New Mexico Tech overseeing the project, said he would not ask residents to leave before the ''attacks.''
 ''On the contrary, we'd like to have them stay,'' he said in a telephone interview from his office in Socorro. ''We figure about 200 jobs should be created by our transformation of Playas, and some of those opportunities should go to the people living there. We're going to make it as safe as possible for them.''
 New Mexico, of course, has long been at the crossroads of far-flung programs intended to enhance national security. Playas is not far from the Trinity Site on the White Sands Missile Range, where the first atomic bomb was detonated in 1945. Though concern has grown about the environmental impact of such projects, there has been little objection to the plans for this town.
 Many people who once called Playas home have drifted to where the work is. Some moved to Johnson Atoll, a United States possession 800 miles southwest of Hawaii in the Pacific, to work on a project destroying chemical weapons.
 A list posted at the entrance of the Copper Pins attests to another opportunity: war. The roster of about 20 names shows military affiliations and postings, with Kandahar, Kuwait City, Baghdad and Kabul figuring prominently. 
 ''The repercussions from 9/11 have worked in mysterious ways,'' said Norman Wright, 50, a maintenance worker. ''My boy already spent a year with the Marines in Afghanistan. Hopefully, he can get a job in Playas when he comes home.''
 When it put the town on the market, Phelps Dodge fielded inquiries from religious organizations and retirement communities as well as New Mexico Tech. The company is getting nearly 60 percent more than the $3.2 million it originally sought. ''Playas has a lot of potential, just not for us right now,'' said Kenneth Vaughn, a spokesman for the company in Phoenix.
 Pleased with the deal, Phelps Dodge is hoping to repeat its success. Interested parties are invited to bid for another abandoned company town: Kitsault, British Columbia. The asking price is $5.4 million.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Playas, N.M., built by the Phelps Dodge mining company, once had 1,000 residents. It now has about 50.
The Copper Pins bowling alley, along with the rest of Playas, will soon be owned by New Mexico Tech.
 Among the few remaining residents, from left: Tom Shamp, Brenda Manos, Linnie Kerr and Cheryl Wright. (Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. 30)Map of New Mexico highlighting Playas: Playas is not far from the site of the first atomic bomb test. (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CITIES (78%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (78%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); BOWLING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); BOWLING CENTERS (72%); WILD CATS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); ANTHRAX (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); PARAMEDICS (64%); DESERTS (62%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (82%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (59%) Homeland Security Department; New Mexico Tech; Texas A&m University

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (94%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (94%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (94%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (94%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (94%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (94%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (94%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (94%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (94%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (94%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (94%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Playas (NM)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



557 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Welfare as We Knew It

BYLINE: By Anthony Walton. 
Anthony Walton teaches English at Bowdoin College. He is the author of ''Mississippi: An American Journey.''

 BODY:

AMERICAN DREAM
Three Women, Ten Kids, and a Nation's
Drive To End Welfare.
By Jason DeParle.
350 pp. Viking. $25.95.
 Welfare. Can there be another word in our language that has shifted further, semantically, from benign origins? Shorthand for the innocuously-monikered and unobjectionable 1930s federal program Aid For Mothers With Dependent Children, "welfare" became, by the 1980s, a bitter repository of conflicting views on community, society and human nature. 
 On August 22, 1996, President Bill Clinton signed into law the Personal Reponsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, also known as "Welfare Reform." The bill was designed to fulfill a campaign pledge to "end welfare as we know it," [p. 4] a then-startling repudiation of Democratic party dogma. The president went so far as to admit that "the current system is broken." [154]
 New York Times reporter Jason DeParle had been writing about social policy for nearly a decade when welfare reform took hold. Deeply invested in these issues, and with self-confessed liberal leanings, DeParle resolved to "clean my mental slate" [ 15] and look objectively at the bill's effects. The result of his seven-year attempt to tell the "story of welfare writ large," [18] "American Dream: Three Women, Ten Kids, and a Nation's Drive to End Welfare," is an original, courageous and deeply disturbing book that explodes myths of the left as well as the right about race, poverty, class, and opportunity in the early 21st century. 
 DeParle begins by introducing the reader to three women, Angela Jobe, Jewell Reed, and Opal Caples, whom he will follow for much of a decade. On the surface, these women fulfill most of stereotypes about welfare recipients: African-American single mothers who had spent their adult lives on welfare, and whose off-again, on-again boyfriends included drug-dealers and two men implicated in the murder of a fourteen-year-old girl. In 1991, they moved from the high-rise projects of Chicago to the less ominous but equally isolated triple-decker ghettoes of central Milwaukee, in search of Wisconsin's higher benefits.
 The surface is where the assumptions end. Behind these disorganized lives, DeParle finds a monumental, emblematic, yet deeply human, story, rooted in 1830s Mississippi. The women he follows share an ancestor, a slave named Frank Caples. The Caples family eventually became sharecropping tenants on the Mississippi delta plantation owned by Senator James Eastland, legendary for his virulent opposition to black advancement. 
 DeParle connects the social dislocation and disorder that followed the family north--- family breakdown, enduring poverty, lack of educational achievement-- to the exploitative and degrading plantation experience. It is with this search through the past for a greater understanding of the present that DeParle's book begins to transcend journalism: he goes "beyond the story" to another, larger, story, providing italcontextital-- context which begins to reveal just how immense are the dimensions of the subject. 
 After introducing Angie, Jewell, Opal, and the blighted history of the Caples clan, DeParle takes what many writers would consider to be an enormous rhetorical risk: he sets aside these compelling personal stories, for a brief, but deft, political and economic history of American welfare policy. The author traces a maze of political intrigue, horse trading, and demogoguery, from Franklin Roosevelt to Daniel Moynihan, Ronald Reagan, and Wisconsin governor (and current secretary of Health and Human Services) Tommy Thompson. This interlude also casts an ever-lengthening shadow over the story of the Caples women, as we gradually come to understand how they and the millions of others like them are pawns in larger political scenarios of which they are only dimly, if at all, aware. 
 When he returns to the story of the family, DeParle continues his close observation of Angie, Jewell, and Opal, relating the rough textures and unending difficulties of their daily lives. They are subject to a Kafkaesque series of bureaucratic rules and expectations, often imposed and raggedly administered by privatized social service agencies whose managers and employees seem themselves in need of the counselling and remediation they purport to dispense.
 The women battle their way through the new world of reform, and what DeParle finds most chilling in their situation is not the liberal's litany of social and historical wrongs, or the conservative's of mistakes made and chances missed, that hamstring them, but rather a circumscription of personal horizon so profound as to be unseen: when Angie, Jewell and Opal talked about themselves, "They didn't talk of thwarted ambition, of things they had sought but couldn't achieve* The real theme of their early lives was profound alienation-not of hopes discarded but of hopes that never took shape." [74] 
 And it is not that they are not valiant. All three see themselves not as dependent pariahs, but as survivors; they do, in fact, both before and after welfare reform, show resilience: "While Jewell's stomach bled [with undiagnosed ulcers], she worked two jobs. From a terrible depression, Angie struggled back to work, while raising four kids... When I asked how they pictured themselves, Angie and Jewell each began with the words, 'I'm strong.'" [72] Only Opal falls by the wayside, overcome in the end by a closely, and tragically, guarded secret. 
 Given the limited goals of welfare reform-moving people off the rolls and into work-- Angie and Jewell are success stories. Their success, however, is in itself disheartening. Angie has worked since 1997 as an aide at nursing homes, performing backbreaking labor which does not pay much more than minimum wage, while, ironically, she herself has no health coverage. Her children, at home and unsupervised, are falling into familiar patterns of unwed pregancy and truancy. As DeParle relates, "having thrown herself into work, she lost faith that hard work pays." [335] Angie feels that she and her family are "just treading water. Just making it, that's all." [336] 
 In this morass, DeParle, oddly enough, finds a glimmer of hope. In the 1980s, the poverty debate was summarized by Ronald Reagan's cynical quip that the war on poverty had been fought, and "poverty won." [323]. By pushing millions, albeit often brutally, from the rolls, welfare reform served to bring into stark relief the true contours of the issues and pathologies surrounding many of these families. However misshapen the drive to end welfare-- with its lack of health and child care, true educational opportunity, and provisions for a living wage-DeParle finds in its effects the seeds of future possibility: "whatever hardships the bill left untouched, whatever corners of inner-city life it may never touch, the decade renewed a forgotten lesson: that progress is possible on problems that seemed impervious to change." [324] 
 He ends with what could be construed as a plea for the Angie and Jewell and millions of American working poor, noting their quiet acquiesence in the stringencies of welfare reform. "In ending welfare, the country took away their single largest source of income. They didn't lobby or sue. They didn't march or riot. They made their way against the odds into wearying, underpaid jobs. And that does now entitle them to something / to 'a shot at the American Dream' more promising than the one they've received." [350] Wrestling steadfastly with the Protean contradictions of its reform, Jason DeParle has given "welfare" several unforgettable human faces. Through his long and scrupulous attention, he challenges the nation to contemplate the dreams, or lack thereof, within the American Dream.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); JOURNALISM (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LITERATURE (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); SLUM DWELLINGS (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%) Anthony Walton; Jason Deparle

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



558 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Where Casinos Flourish, Condos Follow

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

DATELINE: GRISWOLD 

 BODY:
DEANNA AND JEAN DENIS run an auction house in Jewett City, a borough of Griswold, Conn., where they have both lived all their lives. But the housing market is so strong in their town that they have decided to seek to convert a 3.5-acre parcel behind their business into a 39-unit condominium complex.
 ''The project hasn't even been approved yet, but I've had people who have stopped me at the post office and asked to see the floor plans because they want to buy a unit,'' Mrs. Denis said. ''There is no shortage of buyers right now. What there is, is a shortage of homes.'' 
 The Denises are not the only ones who have noticed. In Norwich and Griswold, almost 1,200 condominium units have been proposed or constructed in the last two years, and none of those finished have been vacant long.
 Real estate professionals attribute all this activity to the two Indian casinos in the area -- Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun -- which have brought in more than 22,000 jobs over the last 12 years.
 ''It's absolutely market driven,'' said Licia J. Sas of Town and Country Properties in Norwich. ''We have a very low inventory, low interest rates and a large pool of interested buyers in the area.''
 Ms. Sas said the condominiums are not all being bought by casino workers. It's just that casino workers have snatched up so much of the available rental housing that people are turning to home ownership to avoid apartment hunting, and a condominium is a relatively inexpensive way to break in.
 In Norwich, the Cherenzia Excavation Company is developing a 120-unit condominium project. All 22 units that have been finished were occupied as soon as they were ready, and the company has presold 60 others, said Thomas J. Ligouri, treasurer and general counsel. The units have two bedrooms and sell for $160,000 and $200,000.
 ''We've been selling them faster than we can build them,'' he said. Mr. Ligouri added that towns like Norwich and Griswold, which are 10 to 15 miles inland from Long Island Sound north of New London, are booming because developers have discovered that the land is considerably cheaper than in towns closer to the coast. Cherenzia, he said, is considering properties in and around Norwich for another project.
 ''Any community that has a waterfront, the entire community has become a resort retirement area,'' Mr. Ligouri said. ''It's no longer just along the water stretch, and the land prices reflect that, which makes it impossible to build affordable housing in any town along the shore.''
 James P. Cronin, president of Dime Savings Bank in Norwich and chairman of the Blue Ribbon Commission on Housing in Southeastern Connecticut, said it was recently estimated that the region would need 10,000 units of new housing by 2010, so the developments so far will not come close to filling the void.
 Glenn T. Carberry, a lawyer with the firm of Tobin, Carberry, O'Malley, Riley & Selinger in New London, who represents a number of condominium developers, said nobody is fearful of a repeat of the 1980's and early 1990's when the condominium market in eastern Connecticut was overbuilt and many developers went under.
 ''Even if all the projects that are being talked about get built, I don't think we'd have an excess supply,'' Mr. Carberry said. ''The interest in this area is very strong right now. We get a couple of calls a month from developers interested in doing a housing project in the area.''
 Mr. Carberry said it was particularly encouraging to see the demand in Norwich, his hometown, where the bulk of the condominium units have been proposed, almost 1,000. For almost 40 years the Norwich population has been declining, he said.
 ''It's tough for a community to sustain its tax base if you have a declining, aging population,'' Mr. Carberry said. ''Now for the first time we have young people moving into the city, which is going to increase demand for retail and commercial business, and be good for the whole area.''
 Norwich's mayor, Arthur L. Lathrop, said he welcomes development. He said that while condominiums represent the bulk of new housing, the city has approved more than 1,500 units of new housing over the last two years -- 500 last summer and 1,000 this summer, including both apartments and subdivisions -- and that so far it has not had an appreciable impact on the schools, fire or police services, or utilities.
 ''Already, there are applications for more than 800 units for the next summer season,'' Mr. Lathrop said. ''For us, in industrial New England, that is really unprecedented. And the press for housing here has caused a massive citywide renovation of our old housing, in addition to the new housing. I'd rather deal with the problems of growth than the problems of stagnation.''
 But not everyone is happy. Griswold is considering measures that would require more land per unit, with an ordinance under review that would limit condominium density to four units per acre. 
 A public hearing on the plan has been scheduled for Oct. 12. Demian A. Sorrentino, the Griswold town planner, said some of the recent proposals have been approaching 10 units per acre.
 ''All of a sudden, everybody wants condominiums,'' Mr. Sorrentino said. ''The average price of a single family home in town has got to be approaching $200,000, which is a lot higher than it used to be. Condos offer an affordable alternative. If you can sell a condominium for $150,000 to $180,000, it will move very quickly because of the lack of single-family homes in that price range. There is a lot of concern about the impact of that growth on the town's infrastructure.''
 Housing prices are a concern, said Mr. Cronin, of the housing committee. The average single-family home in the area cost $139,240 in 2000, but increased 53 percent to $213,165 in 2003, he said, ''and there are indications that this year the average will be even higher.''
 ''Some of the houses that would have been considered affordable a few years ago,'' he said, ''the market pricing has taken them out of that range.'' 
 Mr. Cronin said that as single-family home prices rise, more people are willing to consider condominiums, particularly because not much rental housing is being constructed. The commission's study suggested that at least 35 percent of the 10,000 units should be rental, but only about 14 percent of what has come into the market has been in apartment houses.
 ''Unfortunately, planning and zoning commissions are looking at increasing the required lot size to reduce the number of rental units that can be developed,'' Mr. Cronin said. ''We need to be creative in our thinking, and make people more aware of the need, and willing to accept a mix of housing in their various communities.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: GOING INLAND -- A 120-unit condo project is being built in Norwich, Conn. Twenty-two units have been occupied and 60 more have been presold. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CASINOS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); LAWYERS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Condominiums; Renting and Leasing; Indians, American

PERSON: Robert A Hamilton; Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) griswold (conn); Norwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



559 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: The Airport As Flight Boutique

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: NORTH CASTLE 

 BODY:
GONE are the days when the Westchester County Airport operated from a ramshackle Quonset hut -- when lines snaked out the door and cars were parked at all angles on grassy embankments.
 In the past decade, since a sleek new terminal was built, the airport has taken on a well-nourished appearance, emerging as the kind of transportation center you would expect to find just outside New York City, in one of the richest counties in the country.
 It is, in short, a study in efficiency and good design -- from the meticulous landscaping at the entrance to the carefully laid out passenger screening areas. Its restaurant, the Skytop, even gets high marks from food critics. All of which would seem to make it a tempting alternative to the crowds and relative dilapidation of the region's other airports. 
 Why, then, has ridership fallen by 25 percent in the past few years, to a level not seen since before the multimillion-dollar makeover of 1995? Late last year, county officials were even forced to dip into a special airport revenue fund to make up an anticipated $850,000 shortfall in the current year's budget.
 Part of the drop can of course be explained by the dual impacts on air travel of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks and the faltering economy. But commercial traffic at both John F. Kennedy International Airport and La Guardia Airport have since rebounded. Westchester has about 750,000 passengers a year -- compared with one million a year throughout the 1990's and into 2001.
 A big problem is cost. County officials acknowledge what anyone who has flown out of Westchester already knows: It's not cheap. Some travel agents put the airport's fares among the highest in the nation.
 Hinting at another factor potentially limiting business -- the need to keep the peace with the wealthy surrounding communities by reining in the air traffic -- Susan Tolchin, chief adviser to the county executive, Andrew J. Spano, called Westchester a ''boutique airport,'' adding: ''You're never going to have planes taking off and landing every five minutes. So right away that limits the amount of commercial aircraft, and when you have a smaller supply, you can charge more.''
 In a sampling of the views of both frequent and infrequent users of the airport, other negatives were cited as well: the lack of direct flights to popular destinations like Florida, for example, and the limited alternatives if a flight is canceled.
 ''If you miss a flight at La Guardia,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a longtime Yonkers resident, ''there's another flight in a half-hour to Boston or Washington, so you have many options.
 ''But if one little thing goes wrong at Westchester,'' added Mr. Beveridge, who teaches sociology at Queens College, ''you're on your way to another airport.''
 Westchester officials -- quick to point out that the county-owned airport operates without any taxpayer money -- do not seem terribly troubled by the decline in business. They are confident ridership will pick up. 
 ''Who knows what will happen a year from now if the economy zooms off?'' asked Lawrence C. Salley, commissioner of the Westchester County Department of Transportation, which oversees the site.
 Russ Gilfix of nearby Greenwich, Conn., was awaiting a flight to Florida recently. He had decided that morning to rush to the aid of his elderly mother, who was bracing for the arrival of Hurricane Frances. The $500 round-trip fare he bought wasn't exactly a bargain, but he said he didn't care about the price.
 ''In this case,'' he said, ''what was more important was being sure there was a flight I could make.'' 
 Mr. Gilfix, a 47-year-old financial adviser, said he rarely flew anywhere from Westchester, even though the 700-acre airport borders his town. (Slightly more than half of the passengers who fly out of Westchester live in Connecticut, airport officials say.)
 ''The few times I really checked the prices,'' he said, ''the least expensive flights didn't seem to be out of here. Certainly, convenience-wise, there's no comparison. Tell them to bring their prices in line.''
 A flight from Westchester can indeed run double or more that of a flight from J.F.K. or La Guardia to the same city on the same airline. But that tends to be truer the later you wait to book the seat. For instance, a reservation agent for Air Canada, which flies to Toronto from both Westchester and La Guardia, recently quoted prices for 14-day advance round-trip tickets from the two airports that were virtually identical: $184.85 from Westchester on an 18-seat propeller plane versus $183.35 from La Guardia on a 130-seat jet.
 But for flights leaving the next day, the airfares diverged sharply. The cost of a round-trip flight from Westchester to Toronto booked within 24 hours of departure was running a lofty $1,126 in early September, compared with $338 from La Guardia.
 Mr. Salley offered another example. Two years ago, his department sent two staff people to a conference in Chicago. Reserved a month in advance, the tickets cost $199 round trip each. But, he said, when a third employee decided to attend, the county tried to buy a seven-day advance ticket for a seat on the same jet, and the quote was $1,300. The employee stayed home.
 What Mr. Salley found strangest was his staffers' report that the plane was practically empty when it took off. Apparently, he concluded, the airline would rather fly the plane with nobody on it than get the $300.
 For many passengers, though, convenience trumps cost no matter what. Being able to avoid the slog to La Guardia and J.F.K., with their potential for disastrous traffic tie-ups, is priceless, these travelers say. Besides, most of the passengers flying into and out of Westchester are not paying the fares anyway. Their companies are.
 ''Everybody I know would rather fly here,'' said Jonathan Moore, 37, a marketing director for Unilever, who lives and works in Chicago and flies east six times a year for meetings in Greenwich.
 Mr. Moore found some fault with the airport, calling the Skytop restaurant ''a bit soulless'' and the flight reliability ''patchy.'' (That patchiness was evidenced by the cancellation of his 4:20 flight to Chicago.) But in general, he said, touching down just minutes away from his business meetings in Connecticut ''sure beats driving up from La Guardia.'' 
 Another traveler, Ned Moore (who is no relation) agreed. ''This is just so convenient,'' said Mr. Moore, a Danbury resident who had arrived to pick up his son after a flight from San Diego. ''We make it a point to use it if we can.''
 An adjunct professor of education at Western Connecticut State University, Mr. Moore well remembers when the airport was a jarringly shabby fixture in an otherwise ship-shape county.
 ''It used to be like a little barn, and you were walking through the mud,'' he said. ''I once heard someone make a remark one rainy night that it's hard to believe you're in Westchester County. It feels like a third-world country.''
 But sitting in the light-filled lobby, with its soothing gray tones and chic geometric lines, he had nothing but praise for the new terminal, which was humming with activity during a recent afternoon rush. ''Now it's very modern, bright and efficient,'' he said. ''You get a good feeling being here. It looks professional.''
 Some passengers insist that they have discovered competitive prices by patiently searching the Internet. ''I have found some great fares,'' said Aruna Moidu of Ridgefield, Conn., who was waiting for her husband to arrive from Minneapolis. ''It's just a question of luck.''
 Luck is the operative word. 
 ''I haven't been able to figure it out,'' said Mr. Salley, referring to the hit-or-miss quality of comparison airfare shopping in the region. 
 Occasionally, Westchester turns out to be cheaper. For example, a Continental Airlines ticket agent quoted the exact same price to Cleveland -- $580 for a one-way fare within seven days -- from either Westchester County Airport or La Guardia . But a 14-day advance ticket from Westchester to Cleveland was just $144 round trip, compared with $164 from La Guardia.
 In some respects, the county is forever juggling two seemingly contrary goals: keeping the airport as busy as possible to ensure its economic viability, while maintaining good relations with the affluent municipalities that surround it. The airport straddles the towns of North Castle and New Castle, as well as the village of Rye Brook.
 With flights down, it has been easier to control noise pollution and ground-water runoff -- although the 25 percent drop in passengers has not translated neatly into a corresponding drop in the number of flights. ''It's just that there are fewer people on the aircraft,'' Mr. Salley said.
 On Tuesday, the county announced that the airport had recently been certified by the International Organization for Standardization. The group, which is based in Geneva, Switzerland, has developed a set of internationally recognized standards for environmental stewardship, according to county officials, and Westchester is only the third airport in the nation to have met them.
 The county has 20 noise monitors scattered in communities surrounding the airport, and its Web site allows neighbors to identify loud airplanes by plugging in the time and date of the flight. 
 There is in fact one neighbor, whose house sits under a helicopter route to the airport in Harrison, who continues to make 30 to 40 complaints a month. ''They have us on speed-dial,'' Mr. Salley said grimly.
 For 20 years, the airport has sought the cooperation of the airlines to help keep the peace.
 One of its methods is a county policy called the Voluntary Restraint From Flying. The policy asks pilots not to take off and land between midnight and 6:30 a.m. 
 Four of the dozen commercial airlines at the airport, however, do take off somewhat earlier than 6:30, arguing that they must connect passengers to flights leaving from their hub airports.
 Then there is the Terminal Capacity Agreement, in which the county and the airlines restrict to four the number of takeoffs or landings every half-hour, and to 240 the number of passengers using the airport every half-hour. Two weeks ago, Mr. Spano signed a law that codifies those restrictions.
 With ridership as far off as it is, the airlines have had no trouble keeping within those limits.
 The county is feeling the fallout from the drop in commercial ridership, which makes up just 25 percent of all Westchester Airport flights. (Small private planes, corporate jets and charter planes account for the lion's share of activity.) Fees paid to the county from ticket sales, car rentals, concessions, ground handling and landings are all down.
 ''Certainly the decline in that passenger ridership has a negative effect on other activities at the airport,'' Mr. Salley said. ''It's something that we'll continue to monitor.''
 At the same time, since Sept. 11, 2001, the cost of securing the airport has skyrocketed. The county estimates that it now spends $5.1 million a year on airport security, up from $1.4 million before the terror attacks. 
 County officials take comfort in a sizable financial cushion: the airport's special revenue fund -- which, thanks to years of surpluses, has grown to $11.5 million. ''The bottom line is we have a huge reserve,'' Ms. Tolchin said.
 Whether passengers will start streaming back to Westchester County Airport if the economy leaps forward remains to be seen. Experts say that a number of changes in the airline industry and the corporate world might turn out to be more structural than fleeting.
 The rise of discount airlines, particularly Jet Blue, has fueled most of the growth at J.F.K., according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Those airlines may have permanently altered the notion of what constitutes a reasonable airfare, particularly among leisure travelers.
 ''We only have one discount airline -- Independence Air,'' said Mr. Salley, adding that the Terminal Capacity Agreement meant limited options for airlines in terms of flying times.
 Some travel agents also question whether business travel will ever return to pre-Sept. 11, 2001, levels.
 ''Westchester is a businessman's airport,'' said Barbara Herrott, president of Travel Exchange in Stamford, Conn. ''Post 9/11, many, many companies leave it to the discretion of their employees whether they want to make the trip, and Web conferencing has also taken away that travel.''
 And while many extol Westchester airport's convenience in terms of its proximity to home or office, a large segment of the flying public seems to value a direct, hassle-free journey to a final destination even more than a quick hop to the airport.
 Michael R. Edelman, a lawyer in White Plains and a Republican commentator for a cable television channel in Westchester, said he would pay a premium to fly directly from Westchester to Palm Beach, where he owns a vacation house.
 ''Who wants to go through another city to get to Florida?'' Mr. Edelman asked. ''It makes it a five-hour affair instead of a 2-hour-and-15-minute affair. If they offered direct flights to Palm Beach, I bet you their business would triple, especially in the winter.''
 Others believe the airport is poised for a comeback should prosperous times return. ''It has all the attributes -- all the good attributes -- of a small Midwestern airport,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat who represents Westchester. ''It's not overly crowded. You don't get huge delays on the luggage. 
 ''It's sort of undiscovered.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: While passenger numbers since 9/11 have rebounded at La Guardia and Kennedy, Westchester's are still 25 percent lower than they were before the terror attacks. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Despite its sleek design and functionality, the county airport rarely seems as bustling as its counterparts in the region. But Lawrence C. Salley, commissioner of the County Department of Transportation, is not overly concerned about the numbers. ''Who knows what will happen a year from now if the economy zooms off?'' he said. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Graph: ''The Long Rebound''Unlike J.F.K. and La Guardia, which have seen passenger numbers return to pre- 9/11 levels, Westchester County Airport continues to lag.Graphs track passengers in millions and Westchester County Airport passengers in thousands since 2000.(Source by Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
 Westchester County Airport)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (97%); AIRLINES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); BUDGETS (72%); AIR SERVICE (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (65%); TERRORISM (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Westchester County Airport; Airlines and Airplanes

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



560 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; FALL/WINTER CRUISES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2074 words

HEADLINE: For Discounts, Ebb Tide

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN. 
E-mail: stellin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DURING a recent cruise along Inside Passage of Alaska, polite conversation ran the gamut from ''What did you do in port today?'' to ''What are you going to have, the halibut or the prime rib?''
 But the on-board banter also turned toward topics Miss Manners probably wouldn't condone: the upcoming election and the perhaps equally volatile question, ''So, how much did you pay for this trip?''
 Having decided on a seven-day cruise a month before sailing, I felt pretty smug about a last-minute special I got through a discount broker, Cruises-N-More: $2,709 for a cabin for two, with ocean view, on the lowest passenger deck of the Ryndam, a Holland America ship, which included air fare for two people from San Francisco and Grand Rapids, Mich. (flying into Vancouver and returning from Anchorage). It turned out a couple at our dinner table bought through the same agency a week later and paid virtually the same price (the only difference was the taxes on the air fare, since we came from different airports).
 But when I mentioned that price to another passenger, Debbie Roth, a teacher from Trumbull, Conn., it became apparent that not everyone got such a deal. ''Don't tell my husband that,'' she said. ''It'll ruin his trip.'' 
 That's just the reaction some cruise lines are hoping to avoid, with new policies designed to rein in the deep discounts cruise wholesalers have been offering in recent years. Some of this rock-bottom pricing was in response to the travel downturn following the Sept. 11 attacks, when the cruise lines themselves slashed prices to fill their ships. 
 But it's also due to a practice known as rebating, whereby discount brokers buy a block of cabins and share a portion of their commission with customers, enabling the discounters to sell cabins for lower prices than the cruise line itself or full-service travel agents. (Typically, the discount sellers do much less hand-holding -- a tradeoff for the savings you get.) 
 But now that travel has rebounded, particularly in the cruise industry, some cruise lines have announced changes in their pricing policies over the summer that aim to regain control over cabin prices. 
 In early August, Carnival Cruise Lines announced that beginning Jan. 1, any travel agency that advertised rates not approved by Carnival might receive a reduced commission or potentially be banned from selling its cruises. However, this policy applies only to Carnival Cruise Lines, not the other brands owned by Carnival Corporation, including Holland America.
 ''We're taking action to try to ensure consistency in advertised pricing,'' said Jennifer de la Cruz, a Carnival spokeswoman. ''Whether you're on a cruise or a land package, nobody likes to find out that the person next to them paid a better price.''
 Around the same time, Royal Caribbean International, which also owns Celebrity Cruises, advised travel agents that effective Aug. 16, any agency that advertises or sells a Royal Caribbean or Celebrity cruise for a nonpublished price would be penalized by reductions in commissions or other support from the cruise line. 
 ''We do not want a situation whereby any particular agency, for whatever reason, would be able to advertise a lower price for any sailing,'' said Jack L. Williams, the company's president.
 What impact these announcements will have on the industry is still up in the air, as travel agencies figure out what they can and cannot do under the new rules. For instance, Royal Caribbean's policy seems to be more restrictive, not only preventing agencies from advertising lower prices but also barring them from selling cruises below its own published rates. In other words, travel agencies can't toe the line in their advertising, then offer discounted rates once a customer calls for a quote and asks (wink, wink) if that's really, truly the best rate available. And it is also not clear yet whether other cruise lines will follow Carnival's lead. (Rose Abello, a spokeswoman for Holland America, said the company was watching what other cruise lines were doing but had not made any decision about following suit.) 
 ''We don't really know what's going to happen yet,'' said Jeffrey Kivet, co-owner of Cruise Value Center in East Brunswick, N.J., a cruise wholesaler with discount practices that will definitely be affected by the new policies. Even so, Mr. Kivet said, ''There will be ways to be creative, as long as you're not causing disruption in the advertising.''
 He said customers can typically save 9 to 14 percent off the cruise lines' published prices by buying through his agency. But even under the new policies, he said, he will still be able to offer discounts on packages that include air fare or a land tour before or after the cruise. But for the basic cruise price -- at least on Carnival, Royal Caribbean and Celebrity -- Mr. Kivet said: ''We're all going to have the same price. There's not going to be much additional discounting.'' 
 But the new policies don't mean that passengers will all pay the same price, even for the same size cabin with the same view (or lack thereof). Aside from the discounts offered by some agencies, prices for a cruise cabin vary depending on a number of factors: the size of the cabin, whether it has a window or a balcony, which deck you are on (higher decks are usually more expensive) and whether you're toward the front or rear of the ship (which cost less than cabins in the middle, generally a more stable area of the ship). The price is also affected by how far in advance a trip is booked. 
 In the Roths' case, they paid more for several reasons: they bought directly from the cruise line, Holland America; their cabin was on a higher deck and closer to the middle of the ship (though I would argue ours had a better view: we looked directly at the water, whereas their view included people strolling around the promenade deck), and they booked their trip in April, before last-minute sales kicked in. (For the record, they paid $3,476, not including air fare, but then received a $250 credit from Holland America for on-board expenses after they complained about seeing cheaper prices advertised elsewhere.)
 Although Mr. Roth, also a teacher, said he knew he might have saved money by waiting until the last minute, he felt it was worth paying a bit extra to have their summer vacation plans settled. (Even so, during our conversations on board and after the cruise, he insisted I not tell him what I paid, lest buyer's remorse mar an otherwise pleasant trip.) And with ships once again filling up, most cruise sellers expect 11th-hour deals to be less prevalent in the future, with the best discounts given to early birds instead. 
 Beyond the price of the cruise cabin itself, there are lots of other expenses that affect a trip's bill. Some agencies advertise prices that include port charges and taxes; others don't. So be sure to ask when comparing quotes for the same ship. Prices are also quoted both with and without air fare and bus transfers to get from the airport to the ship; you can sometimes save money by purchasing your own air fare, but if your flight is delayed, it's your responsibility to catch up to the ship. (If you buy air fare through the cruise line, it's their worry.)
 And once you're on board, there are plenty of expenses that usually cost extra: soft drinks, liquor, spa treatments, laundry, Internet access, tips (about $10 a day, per person), photos taken by the ship's photographer and, most of all, shore excursions, which can range from a $50 city tour to a $350 floatplane ride or fishing trip.
 ''The percent of cruise line profit that's coming from on-board spending is higher than ever,'' said Art Sbarsky, consumer affairs columnist for CruiseMates.com, which offers advice for first-timers and experts. Mr. Sbarsky advises passengers to budget a third of the cost of their cruise price for additional expenses -- more if you've got a heavy hand at the slot machine or are easily swayed by the bartender.
 Of course, you can save money by exploring port towns on your own, or booking excursions directly with tour companies once you dock instead of through the ship. But there's something about the cruise lines' cashless on-board environment that makes it all too easy to sign charge slips with abandon.
 Indeed, it's so easy that someone in another cabin managed to charge a couple of drink bills at the casino to our account -- an honest mistake, it turned out (our cabin numbers were similar). Still, that's another way to save money: check your bill carefully before you debark.

Finding help online and in print

Advice
 CruiseMates.com: A great site for information about cruising, including message boards, ship reviews, industry news and advice for first-timers, families and solo travelers.
 CruiseCritic.com: Another resource that can help you figure out which cruise line suits your style and where various ships are sailing, plus message boards with discussions on topics like saving money and choosing a cabin.
 ''Econoguide Cruises 2004,'' by Corey Sandler (The Globe Pequot Press, 2004, $17.95): A guide to choosing and buying a cruise, with ship reviews, money-saving tips and an overview of cruise culture, like dinner options, on-board entertainment and recommended attire.

Discounters
 CruiseCompete.com: You can specify a destination, cruise line and ship, and participating travel agencies post the lowest price they have available (you get an e-mail message when a new bid appears). 
 Cruises-N-More.com: Don't expect lots of hand-holding from this site -- or any other discounter -- but if you know which cruise you want, you can save money by buying from a wholesaler.
 MyCruiseValue.com: Also known as the Cruise Value Center, the site's busy front page can be overwhelming, but the company offers attractive discounts to those who already have a ship in mind.
 Other wholesalers: Cruise.com, CruiseDirect.com, Cruise411.com. SUSAN STELLIN

Storm warnings
 Anyone who books a cruise to the Caribbean during hurricane season is taking a chance that the ship may have to be rerouted because of high seas and strong winds. This year, those late-summer bookings have turned out to be a particularly bad bet.
 Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Ivan have wreaked havoc on Caribbean sailings, forcing at least a half-dozen cruises to be canceled as of early last week, while dozens of others have sailed with modified itineraries. That has meant visiting ports other than those scheduled to steer clear of bad weather or shortening some cruises, while some were actually lengthened waiting for Florida ports to reopen. 
 ''Up until this year, I used to tell people it never happens,'' said Jennifer de la Cruz, a spokeswoman for Carnival Cruise Lines. ''Only once in the company's history had we canceled a cruise because of a hurricane.'' In recent weeks, Carnival canceled three cruises, including a four-day Bahamas cruise set to leave Port Canaveral on Sept. 5, when Frances was coming through, and had to modify the itineraries of dozens of others.
 Ms. de la Cruz said the company offered full refunds to customers on canceled cruises. Passengers on shortened cruises were offered partial refunds, shipboard credits or discounts on a future cruise, depending on how drastically the itinerary was changed. In some cases, they were also given the option to cancel and get credit for a future cruise or a full refund.
 Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines also canceled three cruises and modified itineraries for at least 20 others. Michael Sheehan, a company spokesman, said passengers on canceled cruises were offered a full refund, while those on shortened cruises received $250 to $500 per stateroom toward onboard spending (depending on how many days were missed) and 50 percent off a future cruise.
 Julie Benson, a spokeswoman for Princess Cruises, said the company shortened one Caribbean cruise and gave passengers the choice of canceling with a full refund or future cruise credit. ''If they decided to go ahead and come aboard, we refunded 50 percent of their cruise fare, plus they received an onboard credit of $100,'' she said.
 Cruise lines usually offer full refunds when they cancel a sailing but reserve the right to skip a port or change course. If you had made your own air or shore arrangements, you may be responsible for ticket-change fees or excursions you've paid for, though cruise lines may reimburse customers for airline fees. SUSAN STELLIN


GRAPHIC: Photo: Grenada after Hurricane Ivan. (Pool photo by Peter Andrew Bosch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); CRUISES (90%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); ADVICE COLUMNS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (56%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (87%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (87%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (87%)

PERSON: Susan Stellin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (71%) ALASKA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); GRENADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



561 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: A Crash Test For Indian Point?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re Indian Point (letters, Sept. 19) and all nuclear power plants, has our government ever conducted an actual crash test? 
 Considering the price for not knowing the actual capability of the concrete dome to withstand the impact of an airliner, I would assume the costs for building a mock dome and utilizing a remote-controlled retired airliner may indeed prove more economical and prudent. 
 As far as I know, the closest test was completed in the 1960's using an F-105 single-engine fighter. The fighter was launched into a concrete wall of the same material and thickness of those surrounding a nuclear reactor. But the aircraft was about one-tenth the weight and mass of a large airliner (and carrying a fraction of the fuel), and the wall was just a wall, not a dome anchored securely to the ground.
 With the memory of the World Trade Center's assumed ability to withstand the impact of an airliner, New York should consider spearheading a campaign for real-world testing.

Larry Mussman
Lake Worth, Fla.

The writer is an airline pilot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (73%); WRITERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (71%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Energy; Accidents and Safety; Indian Point Nuclear Power Plant (NY); Terrorism; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: Larry Mussman

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) Buchanan (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



562 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Social Security: Paths and Perils

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''How Not to Save Social Security'' (''The Big Issues'' series, editorial, Sept. 23) makes cogent arguments against the privatization of Social Security, but it should also be pointed out that a key economic justification for private retirement accounts, namely the increase in national savings, does not hold water. 
 Every dollar diverted to private accounts increases the federal deficit, and as first-year economic students are taught, that decreases national savings. 
 The hope that private investment accounts will fully offset this loss is a dream. Overwhelmingly, money invested in the stock market either is withdrawn by sellers of stock to be spent or remains in the stock market, often to finance consumption by shareholders through additional borrowing. 
 In the United States, very little investment in plant and equipment is provided by the sale of stock. In fact, for the last five years, there have been more buybacks of stock by corporations than new issues. Most stock market activity is simply between shareholders. 
 One then must ask why the Bush administration insists on subsidizing stock market purchases with federal debt. We suspect that the true goal is eventually to end Social Security.

Charles J. Zwick
Peter A. Lewis
New York, Sept. 23, 2004

The writers were, respectively, director and assistant director of the United States Bureau of the Budget under President Lyndon B. Johnson.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lars Leetaru)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%) Social Security (US)

PERSON: Charles J Zwick; Peter a Lewis; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



563 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: Social Security: Paths and Perils

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Younger workers who are tempted by the Bush administration's dangling carrot of higher benefits if payroll taxes are diverted into the stock market had better look down before they grab it. 
 For decades, Social Security has achieved what it was designed to do: maintain a solid, stable economic floor that no eligible worker or family could fall through. 
 If President Bush's proposal to privatize Social Security is adopted, look out below!

Connie Gruen
Yardley, Pa., Sept. 23, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); PRIVATIZATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Social Security (Us)

PERSON: Connie Gruen; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



564 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; WHAT'S DOING IN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: Honolulu

BYLINE: By JOCELYN FUJII. 
JOCELYN FUJII is a writer who lives in Honolulu.

 BODY:
With Hawaii's economy, tourism and employment as healthy as they have ever been in recent memory, spirits are soaring and wine is flowing in Honolulu. New wine bars and restaurants, a booming downtown arts scene and beaches -- spared their summer throngs -- beckon. 
 In the newly confident Honolulu, the post-9/11 downturn has given way to a redefining of Waikiki as a resort that is as much for pedestrians as for surfers. After months of construction along the Ala Wai Canal in Waikiki, pedestrians will soon be sauntering on a newly green promenade brightened by flowers and shaded by coconut trees. 
 Pedestrians rule in downtown Honolulu, too, where, on the first Friday of the month, art lovers and the pau hana (after-work) crowd revel in music that spills onto the streets. 
 Gardens around the island are equally energized. Forty-five minutes away from the urban core, the Waimea Valley Audubon Center is the new diva of the North Shore, restored from years of neglect into a gem of a nature center by the National Audubon Society in partnership with the City and County of Honolulu. Across the road, beachgoers enjoy the turquoise water and fleeting calmness of Waimea Bay, deceptively glassy in the summer and fall but with huge waves in the winter.
 Nature and culture are equally at home in Hawaii's capital, where the pleasures of the season range from top-drawer ancient hula to the Harlem Gospel Choir.

Events
 The Louis Vuitton Hawaii International Film Festival, (808) 528-4433, www.hiff.org, runs Oct. 21 to 31 at Dole Cannery Theaters, 650 Iwilei Road, with selected films at the Doris Duke Theater at the Honolulu Academy of Arts, 900 South Beretania Street, and Hawaii Theater Center, 1130 Bethel Street. More than 100 films, featuring cross-cultural themes, are scheduled, starting with ''Clean,'' a French-American-Canadian-British production starring Maggie Cheung and Nick Nolte, at 8 p.m. Oct. 21 in the Hawaii Theater Center ($15). For the rest of the festival, tickets, $7 to $8, go on sale Oct. 5.
 Exhibitions at the Contemporary Museum at First Hawaiian Center, 999 Bishop Street, (808) 526-1322, feature the wood vessels of Robert Hamada, the dean of island wood-turners; large acrylics of Hawaiian women by Yvonne Cheng, and pastels by Margaret Ezekiel. It runs through Jan. 25. Closed weekends.
 The gallery is part of a self-guided downtown gallery walk (maps available at most downtown galleries) that reaches a crescendo on the first Friday of each month. Galleries and shops stay open late, and a self-guided art tour passes dim sum restaurants, Chinese herb and acupuncture shops and historic bluestone buildings as it leads the way to the hot spots of Honolulu's art world. The ARTS at Marks Garage, a gallery and performance space at 1159 Nuuanu Avenue, (808) 521-2903, is the unofficial nexus of First Friday.
 Built in 1922, the Hawaii Theater Center, 1130 Bethel Street, (808) 528-0506, www.hawaiitheatre.com, lights up its newly renovated Art Deco marquee at 8 p.m. Nov. 5 as part of First Friday. The theater's October program includes the hula and chant master Manu Boyd's annual hula and music concert at 7:30 p.m. Oct. 17 (tickets $20 to $35), featuring his acclaimed hula halau (school); guest performers include Hookena, Mr. Boyd's contemporary Hawaiian group, and Kainani Kahaunaele, an award-winning singer. At 7:30 p.m. Oct. 30, the Harlem Gospel Choir ($10 to $35) takes the stage. 
 Across town in Manoa Valley, at the Orvis Auditorium of the University of Hawaii, 2411 Dole Street, (808) 944-2697, the Tokyo String Quartet inaugurates the silver anniversary of the Honolulu Chamber Music Series on Oct. 16 with a program of Haydn, Zemlinsky and Dvorak at 7:30 p.m. Tickets, from etickethawaii.com, are $24. 

Sightseeing
 A spectacular opportunity awaits nature lovers downtown at Foster Botanical Garden, 50 North Vineyard Boulevard; (808) 522-7060. In the 14-acre oasis, originally planted in the 1850's, orchids and palms abound and cycads from the days of dinosaurs thrive in a glen. The tropical plant collection is one of the largest in the United States, but these days the rare talipot palm is the star. Thirty-seven years old and 30 feet tall, the palm has sprouted an antlerlike inflorescence that will reach 20 to 30 feet and bear millions of flowers and tens of thousands of nuts over the coming months. Only once in its life does the talipot achieve this, and it slowly dies afterward. Admission $5.
 The drive along the Kaiwi coast of Oahu to the island's easternmost point is an Oahu highlight, with views of Koko Crater and the ocean as Kalanianaole Highway curls along the jagged lava coastline. On a clear day you can see Molokai and Lanai across the channel, and sometimes Haleakala, the 10,000-foot mountain giant on far-off Maui. 
 At the easternmost stretch, about a half-mile past the Hawaii Kai Golf Course, a gate marks the starting point for a two-mile hike to the Makapuu Lighthouse. The ocean views make this walk notable. The lighthouse, built in 1909 and automated in 1974, sits above Makapuu Beach. Seabirds circle the cliffs and tiny offshore islands. Makapuu is a prime spot to view some of the nearly 40 species of migratory shorebirds that begin arriving in September. 
 Some of these shorebirds can also be seen at the Waimea Valley Audubon Center, 59-864 Kamehameha Highway, (808) 638-9199, about an hour from Honolulu. Until the Audubon Society took over in 2003, the area, with theme park features like cliff divers, was in a state of disrepair. Today, Audubon manages 500 of the 1,875 acres, propagating endangered and indigenous species and maintaining 35 gardens and cultural exhibits. At the end of a paved path, Wai Hi, a 45-foot waterfall, soothes all the senses. Admission is $8; open daily. Bug spray recommended. 

Where to Stay
 In its 40th anniversary year, the popular New Otani Kaimana Beach Hotel, 2863 Kalakaua Avenue, (800) 356-8264, fax (808) 922-9404, www.kaimana.com, offers a $40 discount on some rates, available until Dec. 15. The 124-room hotel is near Diamond Head, across from Kapiolani Park, on Sans Souci and Kaimana Beach. An ocean-front room for two is $300, but a Diamond Head junior suite costs $215. Ask for a room number ending in 17 (517 and 617 in particular) to get an ocean-front room with a wraparound lanai and million-dollar views; rooms ending in 21 are almost as good. 
 With its Hawaiian music and new spa and the opening of a seafood restaurant and steak house, the Waikiki Beach Marriott Resort and Spa, 2552 Kalakaua Avenue, (800) 367-5370, fax (808) 921-5255, www.marriottwaikiki.com, is broadening its appeal. It's still an impersonal 1,310-room behemoth, but its new Spa Olakino hits the right notes in ambience and use of Hawaiian ingredients. Genoa Keawe, Hawaiian falsetto singer extraordinaire, performs poolside on Thursday nights; no cover charge. Though room rates are listed as $320 to $490, they often go for much less; city-view rooms were recently $179 and ocean deluxe rooms, $299. 
 The Asian-sleek Bamboo, 2425 Kuhio Avenue, (808) 922-7777, fax (808) 922-9473, www.aquabamboo.com, opened in late 2001 as a boutique hotel. Drawn by the rates, style and location -- two blocks from Waikiki Beach -- guests seem undeterred by noise of the sidewalk and street improvements being made to Kuhio Avenue. The 93 rooms are spacious, with black lacquer accents and white linens, glass showers, and multiple lanais in the higher categories. A deluxe studio has a kitchen with a refrigerator, and teak chairs on the lanai, for $195. Rates are $155 to $850. On a weekly stay at the $195 rate, two nights are free.
 Budget: Around the corner from Bamboo, the Royal Grove Hotel, 151 Uluniu Avenue, (808) 923-7691, fax (808) 922-7508, www.royalgrovehotel.com, is a Waikiki institution, kitschy, affordable and pink like the Royal Hawaiian. There are fresh flowers and fruit on the counter, surfboards in the lobby and a small pool with a piano nearby. The old Makai wing has no air-conditioning, so the main Makai wing is a better bet. The standard rooms in the main wing, at $60 or $370 a week, are clean and carpeted, with TV and lanai, double and single beds, rattan chairs, a stove and a small refrigerator. The hotel is two blocks from the beach. 
 Luxury: The Halekulani, (800) 367-2343, fax (808) 931-5065, 2199 Kalia Road, Waikiki, www.halekulani.com, is celebrating its 20th anniversary. The 155-room hotel is on the ocean, with prime Diamond Head views (visible from some of its bathtubs, too), nightly hula at the poolside restaurant, and two elegant restaurants. The rooms, in their signature pale blue and off-white, cost $325 to $540, and the service sets the standard.
 Country comfort is the theme of the 443-room Turtle Bay Resort, (800) 203-3650, fax (808) 293-9147, www.turtlebayresort.com, which offers a North Shore special Oct. 3 to Dec. 20 with oceanfront deluxe rooms for $295 and oceanfront premium rooms, $262. The lobby and some rooms have ocean and Turtle Bay views and there are two golf courses plus oceanfront hiking trails. From the expensive ($650 a night) new ground-floor cottages, you can often see turtles. Rooms have plush white comforters and sage-green walls.

Where to Eat
 Open since July, Vino wine bar, the hot newcomer on Honolulu's Restaurant Row at 500 Ala Moana Boulevard, (808) 536-6286, serves some excellent, affordable wines to match the tapas-style Italian fare: plump shrimp in roasted garlic butter, fresh and modestly fiery house-made ravioli, and seared foie gras in a decadent fig reduction. Scenes of Tuscan vineyards are painted on the walls. Dinner and wine for two, $70. Open for dinner Wednesday to Saturday. 
 Bouillabaisse lovers are heading for Petite Garlic, at 2238 Lauula Street in Waikiki, (808) 922-2221, serving the best spinach salad and fried garlic in town and a five-star bouillabaisse for under $15. Casual, open-air and pleasingly bohemian, it's tucked away in an alley. Dinner for two, about $50. Dinner nightly. 
 A new restaurant in Waikiki, Hula Grill Waikiki, 2335 Kalakaua Avenue, (808) 923-4852, is open to the ocean with Diamond Head and sunset views. The food is fine, especially the fresh opakapaka (a white-meat fish) and appetizers -- quesadillas of Big Island goat cheese, or scallop-lobster pot stickers -- but go as much for the kitsch and plantation atmosphere (and for the Baked Hawaiian, a pineapple-shaped fantasy of meringue, ice cream and pineapple upside-down cake). Open daily for breakfast and dinner, it's in the Outrigger Waikiki on the Beach. Dinner for two, about $70.
 At the opposite end of the design spectrum, Kai, 1427 Makaloa Street, (808) 944-1555, near Ala Moana shopping center, is all sleek steel and nouveau-Tokyo style, with excellent homemade tofu, grilled Kahuku shrimp, and eggplant with a pork wrap. Comfort foods abound -- rice steamed with fish and vegetables or in a delicate Kyoto-style broth. Dinner for two, about $70. Dinner nightly except Monday.
 Casablanca comes to Kahala at Cabanas Seaside Grill, in the Kahala Mandarin Oriental Hawaii, 5000 Kahala Avenue; (808) 739-8888. Guests enjoy seafood and grilled specialties under dreamy white tents a few feet from the sand. Seafood shines here, as in the moi (threadfish) and other fresh fish simmered whole in lobster stock and grilled. The atmosphere is casually luxe, with the pool on one side and the ocean on the other, and dishes are meant to be shared. Dinner for two, about $120. 


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The What's Doing column on Sept. 26, about Honolulu, referred imprecisely to the age of the Halekulani Hotel. While the present owners are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the rebuilt resort, a hotel with that name has been operating on the site since 1917. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: View of the Pacific from Makapuu.
 The 155-room Halekulani hotel. View of the sunset and Diamond Head at Hula Grill Waikiki. The Tokyo String Quartet will play next month. (Photographs by Cory Lum for The New York Times and Chris Lee [string quartet])Chart: ''Vital Statistics'' lists travel information and statistics on Honolulu, Hawaii. (Sources by Runzheimer International, U.S. Census Bureau, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses)Maps of Oahu, Honolulu, Hawaii.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FESTIVALS (88%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); BEACHES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); THEATER (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (83%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%)

PERSON: Jocelyn Fujii

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (99%) HAWAII, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (79%) Honolulu (Hawaii); Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



565 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Admission Is on the Rise

BYLINE: By HARLAN J. LEVY

 BODY:
PARENTS of Connecticut college underclassmen looking forward to the various parents weekends this autumn may have an urgent question for the administration when they arrive on campus: Will tuition and fees keep surging?
 ''The real question is how stiff are they going to be,'' said Travis Reindle, director of state policy analysis at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. 
 Mary Peloquin-Dodd, the director of the Higher Education Group at Standard & Poor's Corporation, predicted a range of 4 to 6 percent increase for many Connecticut colleges over the next couple of years, with some as high as 8 percent.
 The largest components of college expenses -- teacher and staff salaries and benefits -- are propelled by surging health care costs, she said. Add in increased security needs, higher insurance fees, rapid technology obsolescence, less income from endowment investments in the moribund stock and bond markets, higher utility bills, and sharply lower state and federal funding and the outlook for tamping down expenses is poor. 
 ''If you look at it that way, maybe 4 to 6 percent increases aren't really so bad,'' Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said. Mr. Reindle said signs are pointing to improvement, ''because the economy seems to be stabilizing. We're headed back in the direction of 6 percent, but I don't know if we'll hit that in the next five years. If the economy tanks, all bets are off.'' 
 The rise in tuition and fees this year for in-staters at Connecticut's public universities was 7.7 percent for the University of Connecticut's main campus from $6,812 last year to $7,338, according to the state Department of Higher Education. Last year the jump was 10.7 percent from $6,154 in 2002-3.
 For the four colleges in the Connecticut State University system, tuition and fees this year were up 12.5 percent, from an average $5,121 last year to an average $5,760.
 Connecticut's public institutions' increases in tuition and fee totals bested national figures. Nationally, tuition and fees at four-year public institutions averaged an estimated 10 percent increase, or about $475, to $5,125 from last year's $4,694, Mr. Reindle said. 
 Tuition and fees at Connecticut's private colleges rose 6 percent this year from $22,463 last year to $23,858, according to the Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges.
 Connecticut's numbers for the private schools matched the national averages. Nationally, tuition and fees for this year were up 6 percent from $17,040 for 2003-4 to $18,062, according to the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. 
 With the addition of room and board, a major chunk of the bill, the five private colleges in Connecticut with the highest totals were, in order: 1. Wesleyan University ($40,124 this year, up 5.7 percent from $37,964 in 2003-4); 2. Connecticut College ($39,975, up 5.5 percent from $37,900); 3. Yale University ($38,850, up 5 percent from $37,000); 4. Trinity College ($38,640, up 5.7 percent from $36,550), and 5. Fairfield University ($37,205, up 6.1 percent from $35,055).
 Approximate totals for other Connecticut private colleges include Quinnipiac University in Hamden ($32,400 this year, up 6 percent from $30,570 in 2003-4); St. Joseph College in West Hartford ($30,595 up 5 percent from $29,135); Sacred Heart University in Fairfield ($31,270, up 7.3 percent from $29,130); the University of Bridgeport ($27,850, up 7.7 percent from $25,658); Teikyo Post University in Waterbury ($27,750, up 12 percent from $24,785); Mitchell College in New London ($27,700, up 5 percent from $26,396); the University of New Haven ($27,000, up 5.6 percent from $25,475) and Albertus Magnus College in New Haven ($24,350, up 3.6 percent from $23,498).
 ''Over the last 10 years the average annual increase for private schools has been 5.5 percent, and as cost-drivers continue to increase at the same rate that we've seen over the last several years, it's very likely that tuition increases will also continue to rise by the same approximate rate,'' said Tony Pals, the college association spokesman.
 The constant increases have led Marcia Bromberg, Wesleyan University's longtime finance officer, to ask the same two questions in tuition-setting meetings every March: Is college tuition getting to a point where no one will pay it? Will the parents rebel?
 With tuition and room and board exceeding $40,000 at Wesleyan and many Connecticut colleges eyeing that hurdle, that time may be in sight. Indeed, in a national report card for the 50 states issued Sept. 15, Connecticut got an ''F'' for college affordability. The National Center for Public Policy and Education, in its latest biennial report, found that in-state public four-year colleges cost Connecticut families about 29 percent of their annual income before financial aid. 
 But parents are not balking, Ms. Bromberg said.
 ''When it hit $30,000, everybody said no one will pay it,'' she recalled. ''The reality is people will pay whatever we charge them. There's no end to what people will pay. In fact, the more you charge, the more they like it. People look around and say, 'If they charge a lot, it must be good.''' 
 But some institutions can moderate the inexorable rise in fees better than others, Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said, including the state-supported University of Connecticut and Yale University, with its $11 billion endowment and multiple income sources from research and other endeavors.
 ''Schools that have always had a tremendous demand will probably be fine,'' Ms. Peloquin-Dodd said, ''but the tuition-dependent institutions right in the middle without large endowments will get financially squeezed more and more.'' 
 But some small colleges with not much endowment can keep fee increases modest if they've found a niche. 
 Fairfield University -- a small private Catholic liberal-arts school with 3,200 undergraduates located in a well-to-do Fairfield neighborhood -- has kept its annual increase at about 6 percent over the past five years.
 ''I don't see it changing dramatically in the next couple of years,'' said William Lucas, vice president for finance. Fairfield's income comes from tuition and fees, a modest endowment of $147 million and annual gifts of about $2.5 million.
 But Fairfield faces ever-tougher competition with other Catholic institutions like Providence College, Loyola of Maryland, Villanova, Boston College and Holy Cross. To gain an edge, in the past five years Fairfield poured $100 million into facility upgrades and expansions. There are also now two fields for soccer, lacrosse and field hockey, with an artificial surface for multiple sports and a new natural surface field. 
 Fairfield has not cut courses or staff, giving all full-time workers an extra $500 instead of raises. The college also had a big increase in the number of applications from 5,600 in 1998 for 850 freshman slots to more than 7,000 this year for the same number of slots. 
 The public University of Connecticut is a growing giant, priding itself on its recent extensive building construction and expansion, competitive pricing, huge amount of financial aid, and the increasing number of higher-quality applicants. UConn has 20,259 undergraduates, 80 percent housed on the sprawling Storrs campus and the five other regional campuses, up from 16,681 in fall 2000.
 Next year, UConn has proposed raising tuition, fees, and room and board 5.81 percent from $14,894 to $15,760 while keeping the enrollment the same. The year starting fall 2006, it would hit $16,782, up 6.46 percent. Financial aid totaled $131.8 million in 2000. This year it was $208 million. Next year, the proposal is for $217 million, and $226 million for 2005-2006. Partly as a result, freshman applications grew from 12,642 in 2000 to an estimated 19,500 in 2004.
 ''We are making sure that our doors are open to any smart kid, regardless of financial circumstances,'' said Lorraine Aronson, the chief financial officer. 
 The key to UConn's finances is state support, substantially greater than any other public school in New England. Since the state legislature passed the ''UConn 2000'' program in 1995, providing $1 billion for capital expenses -- new buildings, renovations and equipment -- the university has added three dozen new buildings and renovated four dozen. 
 Last year, the legislature added the 21st-century UConn program, providing $1.3 billion for capital expenses. In return, UConn has been obliged to raise on its own whatever it needs for operating expenses. As a result, fees had to increase. Still, this year, UConn is less expensive than most of its main public competitors, the University of Vermont, Rutgers, the University of New Hampshire, Penn State, the University of Maryland and the University of Rhode Island.
 ''Every indicator is we're shooting the lights out,'' said Dolan Evanovich, UConn's enrollment manager. ''Our position in the marketplace has never been stronger.'' 
 Quinnipiac University in Hamden, with 5,130 undergraduates, up from 4,339 in fall 2000, has a small endowment of $150 million, up substantially from $53 million in 2000. Enrollment growth is a major strategy for keeping fee increases moderate, and finding a niche is the key to adding students, said Joan Isaac Mohr, the dean of admissions.
 ''We are aware of career demands, new career areas as they develop, and we try to be responsive to the marketplace,'' she said.
 Niche programs include physical therapy, occupational therapy, nursing, physician assistant and athletics training. In liberal arts, the focus is on interactive digital design, criminal justice and psychology. The college also specializes in public relations, journalism and TV production. To gain an edge, Quinnipiac installed a fully digital high-definition television production facility.
 College is a marketplace, Ms. Aronson said. 
 ''People are buying a product,'' she said. ''They want high-quality education for their kids, and a low-quality education is no bargain at all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The University of Connecticut in Storrs, above, has had a 7.7 percent increase in tuition and fees this year to $7,338. At Fairfield, below, freshmen this year faced a 6.1 increase to $37,205. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); BONDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); INSURANCE ENDOWMENTS (68%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%) University of Connecticut; Connecticut State University

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: Harlan J Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



566 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Ford Parks Its Natural Gas Bandwagon

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
AFTER a decade spent preaching the gospel of clean-burning natural gas and winning converts among air-quality regulators and vehicle fleet operators, Ford is leaving the congregation. 
 The company produced its final natural gas vehicles last month. Once those cars and trucks are delivered to customers, Ford says it will turn its full attention to the development of other types of green cars, including those that would run on hydrogen fuel cells. But existing customers and natural gas proponents say the move will have serious consequences, since Ford was the sole supplier of several types of vehicles.
 Cars and trucks that run on compressed natural gas, or C.N.G., have distinct environmental benefits compared with gasoline or diesel vehicles. The combustion produces fewer greenhouse gases, less soot and lower smog-causing emissions. The differences are so significant that a number of state and local governments, as well as corporations, have added C.N.G. vehicles to their fleets. 
 And in contrast with crude oil, natural gas is a domestic energy source; nearly all of what is consumed in the United States is produced in North America. 
 Before Ford announced its withdrawal from the market, in January, interest in natural gas vehicles had seemed to be growing. Next year, Honda will offer a home-fueling device for its lone natural gas automobile, the Civic GX, which the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy has rated the world's greenest car. Ford of Europe is preparing to put natural gas versions of the Ford Focus and Volvo S40 on the road. And increasingly, municipal buses and garbage trucks are running on natural gas.
 In the United States, Ford has been the leader in natural gas vehicles, having produced nearly 30,000 since 1997. Its models -- including the Crown Victoria sedan, F-150 pickup and Econoline vans -- are used by taxi companies, municipalities, police forces and utilities.
 Thus, Ford's decision to pull out of the market has left many green-fleet vehicle operators and planners in the lurch. It has disappointed natural gas proponents, who say it is environmentally short-sighted and a blow against energy self-sufficiency.
 ''What gets me is that Ford made a lot about being an environmental company,'' said Andrew Littlefair, president of Clean Energy, the leading distributor of natural gas for vehicles. ''Then the same month that they decided to shut down the natural gas vehicle deal, they decided to produce the Excursion for another year.'' The Excursion, the nation's largest mass-market S.U.V., is a particular target of environmentalists.
 Last weekend, at a San Antonio meeting of the Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition, a group of equipment manufacturers, suppliers and lobbyists, many of the delegates conceded that there was little chance of persuading Ford to reverse itself. Some held out hope that the automaker might at least certify other companies to convert its vehicles. 
 But David Henry, business strategy manager for Ford's alternative fuel vehicle program, said the automaker was unlikely to license any aftermarket company to do the $5,000 to $8,000 conversions in the near future. He said Ford would continue to cover its own natural gas cars under warranty, but if a car converted by another company had a problem caused by the conversion, that specific repair would not be covered. 
 Ford's decision to stop making natural gas vehicles is ''a huge deal,'' said Mike Eaves, president of the California Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition, adding, ''The taxi market wants a big four-door sedan with rear-wheel drive, and the Crown Victoria is the only one in North America.'' 
 Jim Harger, senior vice president of Clean Energy, noted that Crown Victoria taxis were in use around airports at Los Angeles, Phoenix, Seattle and San Francisco, among others. ''Ford's reluctance to continue the C.N.G. Crown Victoria will negatively impact clean-fleet policies at these airports,'' he said.
 Mr. Henry of Ford said that while the company's natural gas vehicles were profitable, they were not selling well enough to justify the program.
 In addition, he said Ford wanted to shift its engineers and resources to combined gas-electric vehicles like its new Escape Hybrid, to cleaner-burning gasoline technology like its very clean ''partial zero emissions'' Focus and to fuel-cell vehicles.
 ''Although we led the market in C.N.G.,'' Mr. Henry said, ''the total volume compared to our other product lines was very minimal.'' 
 Of the estimated 130,000 natural gas vehicles on American roads, some 20,000 are in California -- including about 5,000 in the hands of individuals -- where they can refuel at more than 200 stations. The vehicles are legal in the state's high-occupancy lanes, even without passengers.
 In New York City, some 6,000 natural gas fleet vehicles, many of them operated by Consolidated Edison or by city agencies, can use about 20 fueling stations. Natural gas is also used in city transit fleets in Atlanta, Washington, Boston, Cleveland and Phoenix, and by many utilities.
 Compared with gasoline, combustion of natural gas in cars produces 70 percent less carbon monoxide and 87 percent less nitrogen oxide. According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental advocacy group, the most affordable shuttle vans and school buses are often diesel-fueled. The cleanest of these produce five times the soot and twice the smog-forming compounds of comparable natural-gas vehicles. 
 Diesel combustion also produces some 40 toxic air contaminants, while natural gas combustion is safe enough for heating and cooking in millions of homes. Natural gas vehicles produce about 20 percent less emissions of the greenhouse gases that cause global warming, principally carbon dioxide, than comparable petroleum-fueled vehicles.
 This figure is quite significant, Mr. Harger said, because air resources boards in California, New York and New Jersey are considering whether to require automakers to reduce greenhouse gases by as much as 30 percent in coming decades. Natural gas vehicles could help considerably in meeting such a standard. 
 ''People ask us why we are fooling with this technology,'' said Mr. Littlefair of Clean Energy, ''Well, you have 7,000 C.N.G. trash trucks in Southern California. That's like taking two million vehicles off the road.''
 Compared with gasoline and diesel, natural gas customers pay around 20 percent less per gallon, but the operating cost is comparable because the mileage of C.N.G. vehicles is about 20 percent lower. 
 Automotive C.N.G. tanks have a good safety record, but their smaller capacity generally means that the vehicles cannot travel as far without refueling as a gasoline or diesel car can go. And though natural gas costs less per gallon today, demand is rising even as safety and environmental concerns raise potential hurdles to new wells, import terminals and storage facilities. 
 Ford was one of the first companies to offer natural gas vehicles. In 1984, the automaker delivered 27 modified Ranger pickups to North American utilities. The company invested in fueling infrastructure and expanded to a full line of natural gas cars, light trucks and medium-duty trucks, including a ''bi-fuel'' F-150 pickup that runs on either gasoline or natural gas. The C.N.G. Crown Victoria is the only full-size car powered by natural gas.
 Chrysler produced a few C.N.G. minivans and a shuttle in the early 1990's, and General Motors stepped in with a limited line that included full-size pickups and a van, which has since been discontinued.
 In 1993, Honda introduced its Civic GX, and the bulk of its sales have been to fleet operators, including New York City. Early next year, Honda plans to step up its GX marketing while offering its FuelMaker home-fueling system. By tapping into residential gas lines, FuelMaker can be used with any C.N.G. vehicle, not just Hondas. 
 Until then, refueling typically involves taking the vehicle to a dedicated filling station with high-pressure hoses that attach to special fittings on the vehicle. Fueling is not considered dangerous, but filling stations remain sparse. 
 This is one reason Ford pulled out, Mr. Henry said. ''Despite our best efforts, one of the things that was a real inhibitor was a lack of infrastructure,'' he said. ''It was our customers telling us that it was just too inconvenient, and not knowing where the next fueling point was.''
 Mr. Henry also said that the company had other demands on its resources. ''It's no secret that Ford is going through a revitalization plan,'' he said. ''We had to focus on rebuilding our product lineup.'' 
 Mr. Henry said that if hybrid vehicles sold well, their volume would reduce oil imports by more than a relatively small number of C.N.G. vehicles. He added that while Ford would keep an eye on Honda's fuel-at-home system, the future eventually belongs to hydrogen and fuel cells. 
 Mr. Littlefair said he wondered how that future would arrive if Ford never took further steps away from gasoline cars. ''I think a lot of this is public posturing,'' he said. ''In California, you've got natural gas pipelines running up and down every street. In populated areas, it's everywhere. It's a day at the beach compared with creating an infrastructure with hydrogen.'' 
 Mr. Eaves of the California natural gas coalition expressed frustration that a vehicle technology financed in part through utilities in that state, and thus its customers, was now heading overseas.
 ''The Focus showing up in Europe is kind of a slap in the face of the U.S.,'' he said. ''A lot of California rate payers helped finance Ford's N.G.V. development program. Now they're pulling out and using that expertise somewhere else.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ali Barkesseh refuels a Ford E-350 shuttle bus with natural gas in Santa Ana, Calif.
To refuel, high-pressure hose attaches to special fittings on natural gas vehicles. (Photographs by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Jim Harger, a Clean Energy executive, at a natural gas filling station. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); SEDANS (78%); SMOG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); LOBBYING (74%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); POLICE FORCES (50%) Automobiles; Fuel Cells; Fuel Efficiency; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR AN ENERGY EFFICIENT ECONOMY (54%) Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Chris Dixon

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



567 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Britain Offering to Pay Off 10% of Third World Debt

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Britain is planning a new effort to help poor countries reduce their huge debts by offering to pay off 10 percent of the total owed to international agencies and challenging other nations to follow suit, said Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 In an address on Sunday to an advocacy group called the Trade Justice Movement, Mr. Brown also plans to repeat an earlier proposal that the International Monetary Fund should revalue its vast gold reserves, currently priced at a tenth of their market value, and use the proceeds to cancel some third world debt, according to a text of his remarks published Saturday in The Guardian and later confirmed by the Treasury.
 The issue is rising once more on the international agenda because a previous mechanism for debt relief, set up in 1996 by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, is to be renewed in December for two years. James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, said Friday in Washington that the White House had devised a plan to cancel some third world debt, Reuters reported. Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential challenger, has also promised to lead efforts to cancel the debts of impoverished countries if he is elected. 
 Mr. Brown's proposal is significant because it comes just days before the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in Washington. The finance ministers of the Group of 7 major industrial nations, including Mr. Brown, are also to meet just before those gatherings.
 ''What we hope is that this will break the logjam that has been there for some time,'' said Brendan Cox, a spokesman for Oxfam, a nonprofit group that has urged accelerated moves to cancel third world debt. ''If others follow suit it will be a massive turning point in efforts to end the burden of international debt.''
 Mr. Brown plans to tell the meeting of anti-debt campaigners on Sunday that Britain will set aside the equivalent of $180 million a year to pay off 10 percent of the money owed by 32 countries to international lenders, notably the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Poor nations contend that they often must choose between paying these debts and meeting urgent needs of their people, or making expenditures that would strengthen their economies. 
 ''Because the poor cannot wait, we intend to lead by example by paying our share of their payments to the World Bank and the African Development Bank,'' Mr. Brown is planning to say. ''We do this alone today, but we urge you to use your moral authority to urge other countries to follow suit so that poor countries can look forward to a future free from the shackles of debt.'' 
 Mr. Brown will also argue that the debt owed to the International Monetary Fund could be cut by a revaluation of the fund's gold stocks, currently worth $8.5 billion when valued at $40 per ounce. The market price for gold is now over $400 an ounce.
 ''Because we cannot bury the hopes of half of humanity in the lifeless vaults of gold, the cancellation of debt owed to the I.M.F. should be paid for by the better use of I.M.F. gold,'' Mr. Brown plans to say. His speech will be given as part of the preparations for the annual conference of the governing Labor Party in Brighton, in southern England.
 Hilary Benn, the minister responsible for British overseas aid, said the British move ''throws down a challenge to the rest of the world.'' Some estimates put the total debt owed by the poorest countries at around $200 billion.
 Romilly Greenhill, a spokeswoman for the Action Aid debt relief advocacy group, said the sum of $180 million mentioned by Mr. Brown was apparently part of Britain's annual budget for development, currently totaling about $7 billion. ''It is not strictly new money in the sense that it has already been included in the aid budget,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The British chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown. (Photo by Richard Lewis/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (67%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Monetary Fund ; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Alan Cowell; Gordon (Chancellor of the Exchequer) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (89%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



568 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Don't Worry, Be Happy (Even if Earnings Go Soft)

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM; Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN the long run, the two main drivers of a stock price are the profits the company produces and the amount that investors are willing to pay for them. So whenever investors turn cautious, as they have recently, and price-to-earnings ratios flatten out or fall, attention turns naturally to the other driver: the profits themselves. 
 Until recently, the earnings picture looked amazingly bright, as companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted four consecutive quarters of profit growth of more than 20 percent. 
 But the mood has started to shift. The big concern now is that growth in earnings, while still healthy by historical standards, has been decelerating. A majority of American fund managers surveyed this month by Merrill Lynch say they think that profits will ''deteriorate slightly'' in the coming months. And the consensus forecast for third-quarter earnings growth for the S.&P. 500 companies is 14.2 percent, down sharply from the estimated 25.3 percent in the second quarter this year, according to Thomson First Call. 
 Conventional wisdom says that when earnings growth begins to slow, it's time to worry. That is especially the case when investors aren't willing to pay exorbitant P/E ratios for stocks. After all, if both earnings growth and P/E ratios plateau at the same time, what is left to propel equity prices higher? 
 A slowdown in earnings, even if actual profits are growing by double digits, ''is considered to be a warning sign'' of poorer economic and business prospects to come, noted Sung Won Sohn, chief economic officer at Wells Fargo Banks. 
 But while decelerating earnings have proved to be challenging for investors in the past, they do not automatically lead to lower stock prices. ''If you look at the very, very long term, there's clearly a high correlation between growth in earnings and growth in the market,'' said Stuart H. Wester, vice president for equity investments at USAA Investment Management. But as you narrow the time frame, he added, ''you can find yourself in a situation where the two can diverge dramatically.'' 
 Certainly, equity prices have sometimes soared even as corporate earnings have begun to sour. That happened most recently in 1995, when the S.&P. 500 delivered a total return of more than 37 percent despite the start of a slowdown in earnings growth. No one is predicting a repeat of that, but it goes to show that while earnings drive stock prices in the long term, other factors can also influence the markets in the short term.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.&P., studied periods of decelerating earnings among S.&P. 500 stocks dating back to 1966. In the six months after the peaks of profit cycles, stocks were up on 4 out of 10 occasions. Twelve months after such peaks, stocks were showing positive returns 6 out of 10 times. 
 But this time around, consider where earnings are decelerating from. Starting with the third quarter of 2003, S.&P. 500 earnings have climbed by more than 20 percent for four consecutive quarters -- something that has happened only seven other times since the end of World War II, according to Ned Davis Research. 
 Ed Clissold, senior global analyst at Ned Davis, recently looked at the performance of the equity markets emerging from those seven periods. He found that in the 12 months after the end of such streaks, the S.&P. 500 has risen 8.3 percent, on average. The median increase was closer to 15.3 percent. 
 The numbers defy the current level of market concern over deceleration. ''The markets in the short term are almost always drunk with too much optimism or pessimism,'' said Alan F. Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones. He added: ''I'm not overly concerned that the rate of growth has peaked and is about to moderate.''
 But what if the earnings growth rate didn't just moderate, but fell substantially? Even if the third-quarter forecast of 14.2 percent proves way too high, stocks' performance in the next year could still be decent. 
 Ned Davis researchers studied the performance of the markets based on actual earnings growth dating back to 1927. In periods when actual S.&P. 500 earnings growth came in at 5 percent to 20 percent, the markets have gained 5.3 percent, annualized. But when profits were worse -- in a range of 5 percent growth to 20 percent earnings declines -- stocks have actually done better, gaining 13.1 percent, on average. 
 The reason for that outperformance has a lot to do with anticipation. ''By the time earnings growth gets extremely high, a lot of the good news is already priced into the stock market,'' Mr. Clissold said. Similarly, decelerating earnings may already have been priced into this market, as investors have been expecting the trend for months. 
 That isn't to say earnings growth is unimportant. But it tends to matter most when determining the types of stocks to hold, not whether to stay in the stock market at all. 
 ''If you're thinking about rotating, between high-quality and low-quality stocks or growth and value, then you're going to want to pay attention to accelerating or decelerating earnings,'' said Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch.
 For example, while low-quality and economically sensitive stocks thrived in 2003, in anticipation of the upswing in the profit cycle that began in the third quarter that year, Mr. Bernstein says that now is the time to be moving into higher-quality names with strong balance sheets -- companies strong enough to thrive as profit growth begins to shrink.
 HE recently looked at the last three periods of decelerating earnings growth -- periods of varying durations that began in 1989, 1995 and 2000. From the peaks to the troughs, high-quality stocks -- those rated A+ by S.&P., based on earnings quality -- gained 63 percent, on average, for the three periods. By contrast, stocks graded C or D advanced just 20 percent.
 Investors who fail to recognize the deceleration in earnings may be tempted to keep putting money into yesterday's winners, Mr. Bernstein said. Typically, he said, at the peak of profit cycles, ''people extrapolate the trends and assume that what did well yesterday will continue to do well today.'' But history shows that this could be a big mistake -- just as it would be to assume that the broad stock market will automatically fall, now that earnings growth is slowing.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Resilient, Most of the Time''Investors often become more cautious when corporate earnings growth begins to slow. But since World War II, the stock market has generally performed well in the year after big earnings-growth streaks were broken.Periods when Standard & Poor's 500-stock index earnings grew at least 20 percent for four consecutive quarters, and the performance of the S.& P. 500 in the 12 months after the end of each period.40'sQ1 '47 - Q2 '49: +25%50'sQ2 '55 - Q1 '56: -9%60'sQ2 '73 - Q2 '74: +11%70'sQ1 '79 - Q4 '79: +26%80'sQ4 '87 - Q1 '89: +15%90'sQ2 '94 - Q3 '95: +18%00'sQ4 '99 - Q3 '00: -28%(Source by Ned Davis Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WORLD WAR II (59%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); USAA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



569 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Can Biotech Crops Be Good Neighbors?

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
TOIVO LAHTI grows papaya on the Big Island of Hawaii. Over the last few years, he watched other growers start planting trees that were genetically engineered to resist a devastating virus. But Mr. Lahti stuck to conventional varieties for his organic orchard, and thought it would remain free of biotechnology, which he opposes. 
 Then, last spring, some of Mr. Lahti's fruit tested positive for genetically modified seeds. ''I was really surprised,'' Mr. Lahti said. ''I didn't really know what was happening.'' 
 He cut down all 170 of his trees and is now replanting, without any guarantee that the same problem -- pollen from modified trees on other farms drifting on the wind to pollinate his trees -- won't happen again. 
 From papayas in Hawaii, to corn in Mexico and canola in Canada, the spread of pollen or seeds from genetically engineered plants is evolving from an abstract scientific worry into a significant practical problem. 
 Farmers, especially those raising organic crops, worry that they will lose sales from what they call contamination. Environmentalists worry that modified genes could escape from crops into weeds, wreaking ecological havoc. And once a gene has escaped, they say, there is no way to recall it. 
 Such concerns came to the fore last week when scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency reported that a type of creeping bentgrass modified to resist Roundup, a popular herbicide, could pollinate conventional grass 13 miles away, much farther than previous studies had shown. That raised fears that the new gene could spread to wild grasses, creating weeds immune to the world's most widely used weed-killer. 
 Bioengineered crops seem to have a way of turning up where they are not wanted, through cross-pollination, intermingling of seed or other routes. StarLink corn, approved for animal feed but not for human consumption, ended up in taco shells and other groceries in 2000, prompting big recalls. Tiny amounts of corn engineered to produce a pharmaceutical got into 500,000 bushels of Nebraska soybeans. And engineered genes have apparently been detected in traditional varieties of corn growing in Mexico, the ancestral home of the crop and site of its greatest diversity, though the findings are disputed. 
 In light of these incidents, lawmakers, courts and the food industry are starting to consider how to ensure co-existence or determine liability. Even Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, mentioned to Missouri farmers last month that he was considering an insurance plan to protect organic growers, according to The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. ''If your crop gets polluted by a G.M.O. crop, poof, you're gone,'' the newspaper quoted Mr. Kerry as saying, using the abbreviation for genetically modified organism. 
 Margaret Mellon, a biotechnology critic at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said liability ''is like a huge slumbering giant out there hovering over the industry.'' 
 But the biotechnology industry and some scientists and lawyers say that the flow of genes from modified crops to other plants, while inevitable, will not be a big health, economic or legal problem. 
 For one thing, they say, genes have flowed naturally from crop to crop and from crop to weed for eons. ''Since pollen flow has happened all along, you have to look and see if it's caused problems in the past,'' said Drew L. Kershen, a law professor at the University of Oklahoma. ''The answer is no.'' 
 He and others cite the example of two close relatives: canola, which is grown for vegetable oil, and oilseed rape, which is grown for industrial lubricants and contains far higher levels of substances that can be harmful to people. The two can readily pollinate one another, but with proper buffers between them, they can be grown safely without intermingling, Mr. Kershen said.
 Even if modified genes do flow between plants, some scientists say, so what?
 One frequently mentioned concern is that an engineered gene for a trait like resistance to insects or drought will move from a crop to a weedy relative, yielding a superweed that could spread more widely. A herbicide-resistance gene is already known to have crossed over from canola to a wild mustard weed in Canada. 
 But the effect of adding a single gene to an existing weed is likely to be tiny compared with the effects of introducing a species into a new environment, like the natural but troublesome kudzu that has run amok in the South, according to C. Neal Stewart Jr., professor of plant molecular genetics at the University of Tennessee and author of ''Genetically Modified Planet: Environmental Impacts of Genetically Engineered Plants.'' 
 Dr. Stewart said that in his experiments, crossing insect-resistant bioengineered canola with weeds, the offspring were typically less fit than other weeds, because along with the insect resistance they also inherited other canola genes -- genes that are fine for the coddled life of a crop but unsuitable for the harsher life of a weed. ''Gene flow is not this juggernaut evolutionary force that some people might make it out to be,'' he said. 
 Another concern relates to genes flowing from one crop to another. That could potentially create health problems if, say, corn engineered to produce pharmaceuticals turns up in cornflakes. 
 So far, the new traits introduced into commercial crops have mainly been insect or herbicide resistance, and have not been shown to be harmful. Still, some countries and some food companies do not accept them, whether because their safety has not been adequately proved, as matter of principle, or out of concern about consumer rejection. So farmers can lose sales from contamination.
 In a 2002 survey by the Organic Farming Research Foundation, eight farmers reported losing organic certification from contact with genetically modified crops, and many more said they had to pay to test their crops.
 But PG Economics, a British consulting firm, concluded in a report this year that organic and biotech farmers coexist very well. The report, financed partly by the biotechnology industry, found that the planting of organic corn and soy in the Midwest has surged since 1995, when bioengineered crops were introduced.
 ''Farmers need to cooperate with their neighbors, as they have done over hundreds of years,'' said Peter Barfoot, co-director of the consulting firm. 
 He and Mr. Kershen, the law professor, said that while organic standards do not allow farmers to use genetically modified plants, they allow room for accident. For instance, a crop can still be sold as organic even if traces of pesticide have drifted there from a nearby farm. Similarly, Mr. Barfoot and Mr. Kershen argued, organic farmers should not lose certification if some biotech pollen drifts over. 
 Bob Scowcroft, executive director of the Organic Farming Research Foundation, said that while this might be true in theory, the rules are unclear, and some farmers are losing sales or certification because of even slight contamination. 
 Who should pay for damage or economic loss is in dispute. A group of organic canola farmers in Saskatchewan, Canada, is suing Monsanto and Bayer CropScience, saying that their introduction of genetically modified canola made it all but impossible to grow organic canola in the province. ''All the organic farmers are doing is saying, take responsibility for your property,'' said Terry Zakreski, the lawyer for the farmers. 
 But Mr. Kershen said he thought the organic farmers would have trouble winning such cases. Seed producers are responsible for isolating their fields to protect the purity of their seed, he said, and organic farmers should do the same. 
 It will not be long before the issue of gene flow becomes even more complex. Researchers are working on genetically modified fish and insects. Plants, at least, do not usually swim or fly away.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Genetically modified bentgrass seed, left, for planting in Oregon. (Photo by Rick Bowmer/Associated Press)Chart: ''Out of the Bag''Genetically modified crops have often thwarted hopes of keeping them contained. Here are some examples.2000 -- StarLink corn, approved only for animal feed, is found in the food supply.2000 -- Farmers in Europe learn that they have unwittingly been growing modified canola using mixed seed from Canada.2001 -- A study finds modified corn in Mexico, where it was not legal to plant.2002 -- Organic farmers in Saskatchewan sue Monsanto and Bayer CropScience, saying that widespread use of modified canola had made it impossible for them to keep their fields uncontaminated.2002 -- Experimental corn engineered to produce a pharmaceutical is found among soybeans in Nebraska.2004 -- Farmers in Hawaii say modified papaya has spread to farms growing organic or conventional papaya.2004 -- Pollen from modified bentgrass is found to disperse as far as 13 miles from a test field, much farther than expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); HERBICIDES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); POISONINGS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) Agriculture; Pollen; Genetics and Heredity; Seeds; Farmers; Organic Food; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Grass; Weeds; Agriculture; Defoliants and Herbicides

COMPANY: ENSURE CO LTD (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (62%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (71%) Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



570 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 7513 words

HEADLINE: Fear and Laptops on the Campaign Trai--

BYLINE: By Matthew Klam. 
Matthew Klam, a contributing writer for the magazine who has previously written about ecstasy and the world of day traders, is the author of ''Sam the Cat and Other Stories.''

 BODY:
Nine blocks north of Madison Square Garden, next door to the Emerging Artists Theater, where posters advertised ''The Gay Naked Play'' (''Now With More Nudity''), the bloggers were up and running. It was Republican National Convention week in New York City, and they had taken over a performance space called the Tank. A homeless guy sat at the entrance with a bag of cans at his feet, a crocheted cap on his head and his chin in his hand. To reach the Tank, you had to cross a crummy little courtyard with white plastic patio furniture and half a motorcycle strung with lights and strewn with flowers, beneath a plywood sign that said, ''Ronald Reagan Memorial Fountain.'' 
 The Tank was just one small room, with theater lights on the ceiling and picture windows that looked out on the parking garage across 42nd Street. Free raw carrots and radishes sat in a cardboard box on a table by the door, alongside a pile of glazed doughnuts and all the coffee you could drink. The place was crowded. Everyone was sitting, staring at their laptops, at bridge tables or completely sacked out on couches. Markos Moulitsas, who runs the blog Daily Kos, at dailykos.com, was slouched in the corner of one squashed-down couch in shorts and a T-shirt, his computer on his lap, one of the keys snapped off his keyboard. He's a small guy with short brown hair who could pass for 15. Duncan Black of the blog Eschaton, who goes by the name Atrios, sat at the other end of the couch, staring out the window. On the table set up behind them, Jerome Armstrong of MyDD worked sweatily. Jesse and Ezra, whose blog is called Pandagon, were lying with two cute women in tank tops -- Ezra's girlfriend Kate and Zoe of Gadflyer -- on futon beds that had been placed on the tiny stage of the performance space. Their computers and wireless mice and some carrots and radishes and paper plates with Chinese dumplings were scattered between them. A month ago, at the Democratic convention, Zoe had accidentally spilled a big cup of 7-Up on Jesse's computer, killing it. She and Jesse now looked as if they might be dating.
 Moulitsas pulled a 149-word story off nytimes.com linking Robert Novak, the conservative columnist, to ''Unfit for Command,'' the book that attacked John Kerry's service in Vietnam; the article revealed that Novak's son is the marketing director for the book's publisher, Regnery. Moulitsas copied and pasted the story, wrote ''Novak blows another one'' at the top and clicked Submit. A couple of seconds later, the item appeared on Daily Kos, and his hundreds of thousands of readers began to take note, many of them posting their own fevered thoughts in response. Moulitsas read some e-mail messages and surfed around, trying to think of the next rotten thing to say about the right. Beside him, around the same time, Atrios was assembling a few words about Ed Schrock, a conservative Republican congressman vocal in his disavowal of the rights of gays, who had now been accused of soliciting gay love. A Web site dedicated to exposing closeted antigay politicians had posted an audio clip of what they said was Schrock's voice, and he had pulled out of the race. A pizza-stained paper plate sat between Moulitsas and Atrios. Together, they have more readers than The Philadelphia Inquirer.
 A year ago, no one other than campaign staffs and chronic insomniacs read political blogs. In the late 90's, about the only places online to write about politics were message boards like Salon's Table Talk or Free Republic, a conservative chat room. Crude looking Web logs, or blogs, cropped up online, and Silicon Valley techies put them to use, discussing arcane software problems with colleagues, tossing in the occasional diaristic riff on the birth of a daughter or a trip to Maui. Then in 1999, Mickey Kaus, a veteran magazine journalist and author of a weighty book on welfare reform, began a political blog on Slate. On kausfiles, as he called it, he wrote differently. There were a thousand small ways his voice changed; in print, he had been a full-paragraph guy who carefully backed up his claims, but on his blog he evolved into an exasperated Larry David basket case of self-doubt and indignation, harassed by a fake ''editor'' of his own creation who broke in, midsentence, with parenthetical questions and accusations. 
 All that outrage, hand wringing, writing posts all day long -- the care and maintenance of an online writing persona -- after five years, it takes its toll. I had talked to Kaus earlier in the summer at a restaurant in Venice, Calif., and he had said he didn't know how much longer he could stand it. After the election, he said, he might just give up. Once, he told me, ''I was halfway across the room about to blog a dream I just had, without ever regaining consciousness, before I realized what I was about to do. If the computer hadn't been in the other room, I probably would have.''
 In a recent national survey, the Pew Internet and American Life Project found that more than two million Americans have their own blog. Most of them, nobody reads. The blogs that succeed, like Kaus's, are written in a strong, distinctive, original voice. In January, a serious-minded former editor at The Chronicle of Higher Education named Ana Marie Cox reinvented herself online as the Wonkette, a foulmouthed, hard-drinking, sex-obsessed politics junkie. Joshua Micah Marshall, in his columns for The Hill and articles for The Washington Monthly, writes like every other overeducated journalist. But on his blog, Talking Points Memo, he has become an irate spitter of well-crafted vitriol aimed at the president, whom he compared, one day, to Tony Soprano torching his friend's sporting-goods store for the sake of a little extra cash. When Marshall's in a bad mood, he portrays mainstream journalists as a bunch of ''corrupt,'' ''idiotic'' hacks, mired in ''cosmopolitan and baby-boomer self-loathing,'' whose bad habits have become ''ingrained and chronic, like a battered dog who cowers and shakes when the abuser gives a passing look.'' Moulitsas's site, Daily Kos, teems with information -- sophisticated analysis of poll numbers, crystal-ball babble, links to Senate, House and governor ''outlook charts.'' But what pulls you in is not the data; it's his voice. He's cruel and superior, and he knows his side is going to win.
 Early in 2002, Joe Trippi read on Armstrong's blog, MyDD, that Howard Dean might be running for president, and after Trippi joined the campaign as its manager, he helped bring the Dean movement to life online, in part through the campaign's massive community blog, which connected Deaniacs all over the country, helped them organize and became the access point for the $40 million that fueled Dean's explosive run. The Dean phenomenon drew so many new people to the grass roots (or ''netroots,'' as the Dean bloggers used to call them) of presidential politics that a kind of fragmentation occurred in what had been, until then, a blog culture dominated by credentialed gentlemen like Kaus, Andrew Sullivan and Glenn Reynolds, a conservative law professor whose blog, Instapundit, is read faithfully at the White House.
 But just as Fox News has been creaming CNN, the traffic on Kaus's and Sullivan's sites has flat-lined recently, while Atrios's and Moulitsas's are booming. Left-wing politics are thriving on blogs the way Rush Limbaugh has dominated talk radio, and in the last six months, the angrier, nastier partisan blogs have been growing the fastest. Daily Kos has tripled in traffic since June. Josh Marshall's site has quadrupled in the last year. It's almost as though, in a time of great national discord, you don't want to know both sides of an issue. The once-soothing voice of the nonideological press has become, to many readers, a secondary concern, a luxury, even something suspect. It's hard to listen to a calm and rational debate when the building is burning and your pants are smoking.
 But at the same time that blogs have moved away from the political center, they have become increasingly influential in the campaigns -- James P. Rubin, John Kerry's foreign-policy adviser, told me, ''They're the first thing I read when I get up in the morning and the last thing I read at night.'' Among the Washington press corps, too, their impact is obvious. Back in 2002, Marshall helped stoke the fires licking at Trent Lott's feet, digging up old interviews that suggested his support for Strom Thurmond's racial policies went way back; Marshall's scoops found their way onto The Associated Press wire and the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. Earlier this month, a platoon of right-wing bloggers launched a coordinated assault against CBS News and its memos claiming that President Bush got special treatment in the National Guard; within 24 hours, the bloggers' obsessive study of typefaces in the 1970's migrated onto Drudge, then onto Fox News and then onto the networks and the front pages of the country's leading newspapers.
 During the 1972 presidential campaign, Timothy Crouse covered the campaign-trail press corps in Rolling Stone magazine, reporting that he later expanded into his revealing and funny book ''The Boys on the Bus.'' Crouse described the way a few top journalists like R.W. Apple Jr., David S. Broder, Jack Germond and Jules Witcover, through their diligence, ambition and supreme self-confidence, set the agenda for the whole political race. This summer, sitting in the Tank and reading campaign blogs, you could sometimes get a half-giddy, half-sickening feeling that something was shifting, that the news agenda was beginning to be set by this largely unpaid, T-shirt-clad army of bloggers. 
 A few blocks down Eighth Avenue, thousands of journalists with salaries and health benefits waited for the next speech and the next press release from the Republican campaign. Here in the Tank, Jesse and Ezra sat resting on the futon with some dumplings. Moulitsas was crashing on a friend's floor for the week. Atrios had just quit his job as an economics professor, and Armstrong could fondly look back on stints in his 20's as a traveling Deadhead, a Peace Corps volunteer and a Buddhist monastery dweller. 
 Like almost everyone in the Tank, Moulitsas started blogging to blow off steam. He seemed as surprised as anyone to find himself on the verge of respectability. 
That week, while Moulitsas blogged with gusto -- posting a doctored photo of Senator Zell Miller with fangs and bloody eyes and the comment, ''Try not to puke,'' staying late at the Tank to boo during the televised speeches -- Wonkette walked through the hall and saw what she described on her site as the ''Whitest. Convention. Ever.'' She wondered on her blog if anyone had seen any photos anywhere of, say, a minority in the house; later, to her relief, someone sent her, and she posted, a few shots of black and Hispanic people, cleaning the floors.
 The Wonkette is more fun to read than Daily Kos. She's also more fun to hang out with. Before we went off to the fabulous party that Americans for Tax Reform were throwing at the New York Yacht Club on Monday night, we had time for an expensive dinner at a really nice restaurant in SoHo. Wonkette hadn't been anywhere near the Tank, and when I told her about the scene there, she laughed. ''They've got the raw carrots and radishes,'' she said, ''and we've got the raw tuna appetizer.'' The candlelight reflected off the Champagne bubbles in her glass. ''Other bloggers don't consider me a real blogger,'' she said. ''Kos is the platonic ideal of a blogger: he posts all the time; he interacts with his readers.'' She swallowed an oyster and smiled. ''I hate all that.''
 Ana Marie Cox has peachy cream skin and eyes of a very bright blue, strawberry blond hair and a filthy mind; she likes to analyze our nation's leaders in their most private, ah, parts. She has been talking this way all her life. Until January, no one listened. She's the daughter of a six-foot-tall blond Scandinavian goddess and one of the bright young men who worked under Robert McNamara in the Pentagon. Her parents split when she was 12, and she was shuttled between them, and like most kids who grow up that way, she made an anthropological study of what's cool. She was a loud, pudgy kid with milk-bottle-thick glasses, and when she finally settled into high school in Nebraska, she immediately ran for class president. She was thrown out of ''gifted and talented'' camp for weaving, drunk, through the girl's bathroom one night, and when she told me about it, she described it as ''the story of my life'': the smart girl getting booted out of a place where she belonged. She dropped out of a Ph.D. program in history at the University of California at Berkeley and found happiness for a few years at Suck.com, a snarky social-commentary Web site from the first Internet heyday. She tried freelancing after that, and then spent five frustrating years being fired from or leaving one job after another, such well-meaning, highbrow institutions as Mother Jones, The American Prospect and The Chronicle of Higher Education -- plus another place she won't name, where, she says, they chastised her for raising her eyebrows wrong and for sighing too loud in meetings. Finally, last fall, she gave up on journalism. She was filling out applications for a master's in social work when Nick Denton called.
 Denton is the world's first blogging entrepreneur. He owns a bunch of these smart-alecky blogs -- Wonkette; a New York City gossip site called Gawker; a Hollywood site, Defamer; and Fleshbot, a porn site. Anytime somebody builds a media empire, especially one that includes pornography, you assume the money is good, but in the Wonkette's case, it isn't. Her starting salary was $18,000 a year. (She's getting bonuses now for increased traffic, but not much.) But she likes the fact that Denton hasn't put a lot of restrictions on her. ''The only thing he said was that he wanted it to be funnier than Josh Marshall,'' she told me. ''The bar isn't raised too high.''
 Imagine a fairly drunk housewife stuck in front of CNN, growing hornier as the day wears on. The Wonkette reads like a diary of that day. Cox quickly found her voice -- funny, sex-obsessed, self-indulgent. ''The Wonkette is like me after a few margaritas,'' she said. She started with two basic themes: questioning Bush's sexual preference and praising Kerry's anatomical, well, gifts. In March, she discovered a terrific new feature on the Bush-Cheney Web site that let voters generate their own official Bush-Cheney '04 posters with personalized slogans. She dubbed it ''The Sloganator,'' and until the campaign got wind of her project and shut down the Sloganator, Wonkette solicited slogans from readers and printed up very professional-looking Bush-Cheney posters with phrases like ''Christians for purification of the Mid East,'' ''Because Satan is coming to eat your kids'' and ''Crackers Unite'' emblazoned across the top. Readers loved it. It took Wonkette just three months to reach the traffic numbers Marshall had been working to build up for three years.
 While the Wonkette likes to make fun of Washington's capacity to take itself seriously, sometimes she seems to take it more seriously than anyone. She spent about a month out of her mind with excitement on one totally pointless story, the White House Correspondents' Dinner, wondering online if any of her readers might get her in. A friend finally came through and took her as his date, and the following morning she posted several very keyed-up reports: ''Arrive with J. in cab to Hinckley Hilton: Omg. There really is a red carpet. Paparazzi. Sort of junior-varsity feeling, but still. Fumble with wrap, bag, umbrella . . . remember . . . don't show teeth in smile, suck in gut, stick out chest. The paparazzi go nuts! Smile, prepare to wave. . . . Realize that we have entered just behind Jessica Lynch.'' And then later: ''More wine. . . . Keep thinking I see Harvey Weinstein, but it's just random heavy-set mogulish types. . . . Lights flash. Time for mediocre surf-and-turf! . . . waiter passes with tray of Jell-O shots, and for a brief, beautiful moment, it appears that Wolfowitz might take one.'' She was finally getting paid for being drunk at gifted-and-talented camp.
 Not long after Wonkette came to life, Cox's hometown newspaper, The Lincoln Journal Star, profiled her. Then an online crew from The Washington Post came to videotape her blogging, and then bookers started calling from talk shows. By midsummer, she had been on ''Scarborough Country,'' on MSNBC, which she likes to call ''Scar-Co,'' four times. TV stardom seemed to her to be the ideal next step. 
 Sure enough, in July, MTV called and asked her to report from the Democratic National Convention. She was thrilled, and she fixed on the idea that this convention gig might turn into a real job at the network. Whatever it is that makes a person want to be famous, need to be famous -- and not everything about a ravenous hunger for fame is bad -- Cox has that. The carrot of fame now hanging over her was distracting, and I got the sense that certain situations were playing out in her head. ''I watched 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' a lot as a kid,'' she said. 
 A couple of weeks before the convention, she flew to Los Angeles for a screen test, and when she got back, she told me that she had aced it. ''I am very good at this,'' she said proudly. She was getting a little obsessed. ''It's weird,'' she said. ''It's like discovering you can yodel. You know what I mean? I'm good. I really never would've known.''
 In Boston, at the convention, she hardly blogged at all. MTV had scheduled a single short piece for her to do from the convention floor. ''I'm not really doing anything for MTV,'' she said at the start of the convention. ''I'm doing interviews about being hired by MTV.'' A couple of days later, I ran into her at the FleetCenter. She was in a hurry. ''I have to go be interviewed by 'Nightline,''' she said. '''Oh, and what do you do?''' she went on, pretending to be Ted Koppel. '''I get interviewed about what it's like to be the MTV special correspondent. I forward media requests. I try to find free food and liquor.''' That evening, from my seat up in the rafters next to Moulitsas, I saw Cox in action down on the floor, holding a microphone, kneeling, interviewing a delegate. It took me a moment to realize that there was no cameraman; it was just Cox, with a microphone and a producer hovering over her shoulder offering little bits of advice. 
 I couldn't figure it out. Why was she so excited about working for MTV? MTV is for 9-year-olds. It's so 1992. It was as if her sense of what was cool and what was stupid, so unerring on her blog, had abandoned her. How could she think that 18 seconds with those cocky jerks on ''Scar-Co'' was better than a perfect joke about a president, his dog and a blown kiss? Four months of setting the blog world on fire making dirty political jokes suddenly wasn't enough any more. 
 But then she wasn't asked to cover the Republican convention for MTV. It would be fair to say that this upset her. Wonkette had seemed like the perfect stepping stone to something big. Now she had to consider, What if Wonkette was as good as it gets?
 By the time we sat down to dinner in New York, she was employing that old trick of pretending to be happy with just this. She was focusing on the blog again and its many perks. ''I haven't bought my own dinner or drinks in months,'' she said. She tipped her head to the side and shrugged. ''That's the best benefit of being Wonkette. That's the sad truth. They all want something. But that's fine. All I want is dinner and drinks.'' 
In Boston, the day before the convention started and after a long, glittering night following the Wonkette to fancy parties, I came back late and found Josh Marshall in my hotel room, lying sideways on a cot, blogging. He was drinking a Diet Coke, his face illuminated by the glow of his laptop, legs crossed, socked feet hanging off the edge. Earlier in the day, when he mentioned that his hotel reservation didn't start until Monday, I had offered to share my room with him for the night. 
 The first time I had met him, back in April in Washington, he was drinking a large Coke from Chipotle and a foot-tall iced coffee. He explained that he spent most afternoons at Starbucks, and then he would head back to his apartment to blog all night, drinking coffee, sometimes even editing and revising while lying in bed. ''You edit something when you're literally falling asleep,'' he said. ''It can be kind of scary.'' 
 In my room in Boston, he had a little hotel ice bucket by his side with two more Diet Cokes in it, and he finished them off before bedtime. It was late, and I was tired and he was disoriented, trying to blog under such circumstances, but before we turned off the lights he wanted to show me his Talking Points Memo ID, which resembled a press badge. He wondered if I thought it looked real. The credentials we would all be receiving the next day didn't require any press badge, but staff reporters of actual news organizations always seem to have separate institutional ID's, thick plastic magnetized deals that can open locked doors. Working off the model of a friend's ID, Marshall had, using his girlfriend's computer and photo printer, made a sober little knockoff, including his picture (in coat and tie), an expiration date and an explanation of company policy: should the company's only employee be terminated, the badge would become the property of Talking Points Memo. He laminated it at Kinko's. He had also brought his own lanyard (each media empire has its own necklace strings) and his own little plastic badge holder. I told him it looked completely legit.
 Marshall had been wondering about that for a while. Even before he had finished his Ph.D. in American history at Brown, he was thinking about the impending problem of how to look legit, where to fit in. His father is a professor of marine biology, and Marshall knew, as Cox had known, that academic life wouldn't work. He wanted to be a writer, and he wanted to write about serious stuff, and he wanted to do it with a lot of passion. Marshall's mom had died when he was still in grade school, in a car accident, and he says losing her made it impossible for him to live without believing strongly in something. And he does: he is a guy whose waking state hovers right between irate and incensed, and for him those beliefs require action. Coming out of school, he had a love for history and a handle on American policy issues, and he figured the rest would be simple, job-wise, if only somebody would let him write. Marshall spent three years after his Ph.D. program working as an editor at The American Prospect, the liberal policy journal, and I got the feeling -- not so much from him, because he didn't want to talk about it, but from former colleagues -- that by the time he quit, he had decided that it would be better to starve than to work for someone else. So for a while he starved. 
 Marshall started the blog in 2000, during the Florida recount, as a release valve, and it's still working that way; oversimplifying weighty issues, reducing them to their essential skeletons, somehow relaxes him. Since February, with the explosion of blog traffic and the invention of blog ads as a revenue source, a few elite bloggers have found themselves on the receiving end of a Howitzer of money, as much as $10,000 a month. Marshall is one of them, and now that the release valve has become a job, albeit a well-paying one, he has to resist the tendency to ruin it. He wrestles with the question of how many posts are enough, since he's a one-man operation and his advertisers have paid ahead of time, and then there are also those obligations to The Hill, where he writes a low-paying weekly column, and The Washington Monthly, another underpaid gig that harks back to his hungrier days.
 When I fell asleep in my hotel room, Marshall was complaining that there are no good books on the Crusades. The next morning, he got back into his clothes from the night before. He looked like a wrinkle bomb had hit him. 
 The big news, the only piece of news, it seemed, about the Democratic convention was that bloggers had been credentialed as news media, sort of, and after so many months ripping the mainstream press coverage of the campaign, a little tingle hung in the air. How would the new breed thrive on the ancient media's home turf, a news event by and for the big news folks? I spent the day at the FleetCenter, in the terrific accommodations the Democrats had arranged for the bloggers: up in the nosebleed seats, Section 320, where 35 of them, the lucky ones who had been credentialed, could fight for any of the 15 bar stools they had been provided, along with some makeshift plywood desks built along the railing. Whoever got there late sat in the cramped, yellow, steeply banked folding seats, no elbowroom, bad lighting, their power cords snaking down the rows to a couple of surge protectors. Moulitsas was in Section 320, and so was Armstrong from MyDD, Atrios of Eschaton, Zoe from Gadflyer, Jesse and Ezra, Jeralyn of Talkleft, Dave Pell from Electablog, Chris Rabb from Afro-Netizen, Bill Scher from Liberal Oasis and Christian Crumlish of radiofreeblogistan. But no Josh Marshall.
 I ran into him later on in the press stands, to the right of the stage, where he had set up shop, squatting at a spot designated for an official news organization in the coveted blue section. He was fiddling with his computer and finishing a cellphone call about what he called ''the biggest story of my life,'' one that would quell any fears about his legitimacy as a real journalist, at least for a while. But right now he was just trying to get online. That damned wireless modem he had spent so much money on really stunk. Verizon was driving him nuts. He had by this point changed into a fresh shirt and different pants from the ones he had been wearing when he left my hotel room, but he appeared, from head to toe, to be entirely wrinkled again, as though his clothing wrinkled at a faster rate than other people's. He gave up on trying to get online, finished his call and sat back. With his arms folded across his chest, in an incensed yet somewhat professorial tone, very up-all-night, very corduroy, he talked on and on about Douglas Feith and Ahmed Chalabi and Karl Rove.
 For the entire time we were in Boston, he never seemed curious about where the bloggers were supposed to sit, and whenever I told him I had just come from there -- at one point I even called from my cellphone, up in the nosebleeds, and waved -- he never went up to visit. He skipped the blogger breakfast that morning, and I had to drag him out to go party-hopping at night -- though when he got there, look out! (Just kidding.) 
 Marshall often seemed stuck between two worlds. In the blogger world, he was a star, author of one of the most popular and most respected sites. But unlike Moulitsas, who consulted on campaigns and helped develop software for political fund-raising and dreamed of marble statues in his image, Marshall seemed unsure of where blogging was leading. In the mainstream media world, he was not a major player, not yet anyway. He published occasional, well-regarded magazine pieces -- one in The Atlantic, one in The New Yorker -- but nothing earth-shattering. He didn't really seem at home there. Writing for magazines, he said, had become a big pain. Blogging was easier, freer. ''In blogging,'' Marshall said, ''there's no lead, no 'What's my point?''' The blog ad money had fallen from the sky, and it had saved him. 
 ''Now I'm not under any financial pressure to write,'' he said. ''What I backed into, in doing this blog, was freedom. And not having to write things I didn't believe and not having to write ways I didn't want to write.'' It is this unique amount of leeway that has allowed him, over the past two years, to run at his own pace, dig deeper. On his blog, he brings attention to overlooked stories. He wrote about Valerie Plame's cover being blown eight days before The New York Times did. And a paper put out by scholars at the Kennedy School of Government analyzing the fall of Trent Lott singled out Marshall for keeping the focus on a story that had otherwise slipped off the mainstream-media radar.
 Like the Wonkette, Marshall loved the idea of being tapped by those who had once ignored him. Over the summer, he paired up with a big network news show on an investigative story, hoping some of its credibility would rub off on him. But then the network bumped the story at the last minute. If only he could turn his back completely on the old way, concentrate on nothing but the blog; but letting go of institutional approval and the security and camaraderie that goes with it is like jumping out a window. He can't decide between loving the big media, linking to it, hoping they'll pick up on stories, and hating it, despising it, insulting it, trying to convince you, or himself, that it's the worst thing in the world and that it's ruining American democracy. 
 Marshall did a little more heavy sighing and wrinkled himself up some more, rubbing his sour face, and launched into what was really irking him at this moment. ''Going it alone is harder than it looks,'' he said. He had been fairly aggressively attacking the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth and had attracted plenty of fire himself. ''I've gotten tons of hate mail over the last few weeks,'' he said. ''You get a very thick skin for it. But it's hard. There's something on the karmic level. You feel the level of hate, and when you get a hundred of those, it's exhausting. Normally I'm oblivious to it, but lately it's getting to me a little.'' He had blocked mail from certain e-mail accounts, and yet, he said, ''even though I haven't answered them -- some I haven't answered in a year -- they're still writing. This one guy has subject headings like 'Why you're an idiot today.' Certain people read the site to counteract their heart medication.''
On April Fools' Day, Moulitsas really blew it. In a swaggering reaction to a Daily Kos reader who wondered in the comment section whether the four American civilian contractors strung up in Falluja deserved the same respect as American soldiers, he wrote, ''I feel nothing over the death of mercenaries,'' and then added, ''Screw them.'' Within hours, he became the focus of an international letter-writing campaign to drive away all of his advertisers. It worked, too. House candidates, Senate candidates, they all pulled their ads. But in a matter of weeks brand-new ads came in to fill the void. ''It was a blip!'' Moulitsas told me later, a little triumphantly. He had nearly destroyed himself, but not quite. 
 In the aftermath of what was maybe the worst week of Moulitsas's life, friends asked him if he might not consider choosing between his two roles, as a clearinghouse for activism and an outlet for information. But the site continued to grow, fund-raising chugged along for his candidates, and he wanted me to know that his survival was a big finger in the eye of anyone who said a blogger couldn't be two things at once.
 But there was another role Moulitsas hadn't quite mastered yet: his place in the established machinery of the Democratic Party. Moulitsas is a rabid Democrat, devoted to the idea of the party, but he also feels a deep distrust for the party system, and so do many of his readers. Moulitsas has always been an outsider. He was born in Chicago, but moved to his mother's native El Salvador at age 4, and as the civil war there heated up in the 1980's, he remembers stepping over dead bodies. He only returned to Chicago after rebel soldiers passed along photos of Moulitsas and his brother to the family, an invitation to leave or lose their sons. Moulitsas speaks of himself, at the time of his return to Chicago when he was 9, as a tiny geek with a big mouth who couldn't speak English and who quickly learned to say things to bullies, in his heavy Spanish accent, that were just confounding enough for him to make a getaway before the bully realized he had been insulted. In high school, his American experience didn't improve. ''I had to eat fast and run to the library to read, because I didn't have any friends,'' he said. After graduation, at 17, he enlisted in the U.S. Army. He was 5 foot 6 and weighed 110 pounds. Like everyone else, he carried a 65-pound pack on those 15- and 20-mile marches. He had been pushed around all his life, but in basic training, within spitting distance of his drill sergeants, he learned to fight back.
 In Boston, I went with Moulitsas to a really swanky party given in honor of the bloggers at a Middle Eastern restaurant on the Charles River. At 2 a.m., as people were filing out to leave, a discussion that had started online spilled onto the middle of the floor. For the last few weeks, Moulitsas had been conversing on at least two different blogs with Jim Bonham, the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. The D.C.C.C. is the arm of the Democratic Party that provides money, expert advice and technical support to candidates in close House races, and Moulitsas had been complaining that the group was abandoning some viable candidates, especially liberal ones, and leaving them to ''flail around.'' Moulitsas became especially worked up about a Congressional candidate in Pennsylvania named Ginny Schrader. Her race against an incumbent Republican looked unwinnable, until her opponent suddenly dropped out of the race. Moulitsas immediately started soliciting donations for Schrader on Daily Kos, and within a couple of days he had raised $40,000 for her campaign, which the day before had had $7,000 in the bank. The D.C.C.C. was slower to react, and Moulitsas felt outraged and free to take a whack or two at them.
 So when Moulitsas and Bonham met by the door at the party, they started screaming at each other. People gathered around to watch, blocking the crowd attempting to leave. Jim Bonham is taller and stouter than Moulitsas, but Jerome Armstrong of MyDD stood behind Moulitsas, kind of grinning and shaking his head. Stirling Newberry, a blogger buddy of Moulitsas's from the Draft Clark movement, tried to act as peacemaker, but it didn't work. Nicco Mele, the official liaison between the D.C.C.C. and the blogosphere, just stood back, horrified. 
 When I reached the blogger section the next day, Moulitsas was still pumped up. ''Did you see my epic battle?'' he yelled over to me. Armstrong turned around, grinning his head off. ''The D.C.C.C. has never been challenged,'' Moulitsas said when I got over to his seat. ''It was a shot across the bow.'' Then he re-enacted the fight. ''You should've heard him yelling: 'So you can raise $20,000, but I can raise $2 million! You have to understand your role in this!'''
 Armstrong said, ''I'd have hit him if he said that to me.''
 Moulitsas said: ''I told him: 'Don't yell at me. The rules are changing. You gotta adapt. You gotta wake up and realize your role.''' (I talked to Bonham later, and he said he didn't get why Moulitsas thought the D.C.C.C. was slighting bloggers. After all, Bonham said, the D.C.C.C. had paid for the very top-drawer blogger bash where the fight broke out.)
 For Moulitsas and for a lot of other people new to politics in 2004 -- amateurs who liked the thrill ride Dean had taken them on -- the idea that the rules had changed seemed entirely obvious. What was important to these new activists, he told me, was winning -- winning the presidency, winning back the Senate, winning as many Congressional seats as possible. Soon after we met, Moulitsas tried to convince me how important it was for the old guard to start seeing politics through the eyes of the bloggers. That meant rapid response, he said, smart use of technology, constant two-way communication with the voters and grass-roots fund-raising. He told me the story of a flash advertisement that the D.N.C. had posted on its Web site. Moulitsas hated it. ''It was horrible, the worst thing I'd ever seen,'' he said. ''So I blogged a post saying, 'That's the biggest piece of garbage I've ever seen in my whole entire life''' (although he used stronger language than that). ''What the hell were they thinking?'' he asked. ''I was embarrassed to be a Democrat. So then I get phone calls and e-mails, 'Well, why didn't you talk to us?' I'm like: 'What's there to talk about? The thing's a piece of garbage.' And then they say: 'It was done by a volunteer. If you attack them, then volunteers aren't going to want to do stuff like that.' I'm like: 'Good! 'Cause it's a piece of garbage.' I'm like, Here's the way it goes. O.K., from now on, keep this in mind: whenever you put up anything on this site, think, How are the blogs going to react?'' He was smiling, but all the veins were pulsing in his neck. ''You can pout all you want,'' he said, ''but I'm not here to make friends with you guys and go to your little cocktail parties. And that piece of garbage is going to lose us votes.''
 Although the D.C.C.C. raises a lot more money for Congressional candidates than Moulitsas does, candidates have caught on to the fact that Moulitsas's help can be invaluable. While we were sitting up there in the blogger nosebleed section, his phone rang. It was Samara Barend, a young community activist running for Congress in upstate New York. When Moulitsas hung up, he told me she was calling ''either to get my endorsement or to get me to write about the race.'' 
 Then we headed to the Westin to meet another Congressional candidate hoping for some of the same attention from Daily Kos: Diane Farrell, a selectwoman from Westport, Conn. We sat down in the hotel's ornate lobby, where delegates and journalists were checking e-mail and chatting. After some friendly introductions, Farrell made her pitch. ''The problem is that we don't have a TV station,'' she said. ''We have three daily papers, but direct mail will probably be our biggest expense. Radio costs too much.'' 
 Moulitsas said, ''Are you doing the heavy ground game?''
 ''Oh, most definitely.''
 Moulitsas wondered if the remnants of the Dean movement could help out. ''Are there any Dean organizations around you?'' he asked.
 ''Bean?'' 
 Moulitsas cleared his throat. ''Dean.''
 ''Oh, yes,'' she said. 
 Later, Moulitsas decided to add Barend -- but not Farrell -- to the short list of candidates he deemed most worth backing and raised more than $10,000 for her campaign.
 Moulitsas's ''friendly relations'' with particular candidates got him into a public fight with Zephyr Teachout, who became briefly famous last winter as the guru of the Dean Internet campaign, which in fact employed Moulitsas for several months. Over the summer, she complained in several online forums, and to Moulitsas directly, that he and other bloggers were blurring the lines between editorial and advertising, lines that had always been sacred in journalism. According to Teachout, they were posting comments in support of candidates for whom they were also working as paid consultants and not explaining that conflict of interest, or at least not fully enough for Teachout. In an online discussion with Jay Rosen, who heads the journalism department at N.Y.U., she wrote, ''I think where we essentially disagree is that transparency alone is enough.'' 
 ''Zephyr can go to hell,'' Moulitsas said at the Democratic convention. ''I'm not about to censor myself on any issue,'' he later wrote on another Web site. ''If I care about something, I'll write about it. It's the essence of blogging. As for the mainstream media, who cares what some joker journalism professor wrote? Just keep blogging, doing your thing, and the blogosphere will continue to do just fine. We should let our accomplishments speak for themselves, and they will.'' 
For Moulitsas, the bigger problem these days is his own success. When we met up again at the Republican convention, we walked around ground zero, and he told me about his rising page views. ''I was losing sleep over how I'd survive the traffic,'' he said. His daily readership had surpassed 350,000, and by most counts he had become the most-read political blogger in the country. He told me he had hired a full-time programmer to take over the technical work of running his site. ''I never intended to be here,'' he said. ''Nothing foreshadowed the attention Daily Kos is getting.''
 Moulitsas said that people had been coming in from Brooklyn and other places just to shake his hand, because they knew he would be at the Tank. ''It's weird,'' he said. ''It makes me uncomfortable. People who achieve a certain amount of celebrity plan it. They expect that public attention will be part of the package.''
 Away from the Tank now, he could relax for a moment and reflect. ''I'm really self-conscious of how the blogger community perceives me,'' he said. ''I feel guilty that I don't link to more bloggers, I feel guilty that I'm more successful than other bloggers. I feel guilty that I make as much money as I do now, that I get more traffic. Rather than enjoy it, sometimes I feel really guilty about it. It's silly.'' 
 As we neared Wall Street, Moulitsas said: ''The other angst I have about blogging is that because I depend on the income, it has become a job. You'd think I'd be happy. I make a living off of blogging! But it's interesting how, once it becomes a job, there's a certain angst that I'm kind of afflicted with. I can't quit.''
When the bloggers first arrived in Boston for the Democratic convention, some of them had high hopes for what they would be able to accomplish there -- that together they would cough up an astounding Rashomon collective of impressions and insights, interlinked, with empowering conclusions. With their new form of journalism, at once smaller and larger than the mainstream, they planned to bring politics back to the people. But those first few posts, so highly anticipated by their fellow bloggers, the ones who didn't score credentials, were more about the bus ride from the hotel, the heavy security in the parking lot; their seats in the rafters were terrible, they had trouble getting floor passes and, anyway, out on the floor, who would they talk to? Were they supposed to pretend to be regular reporters? Up in the nosebleeds, the delegates overran their special section, and it got so hot at night you could die, especially with a nice warm laptop baking your thighs; the WiFi kept fading, cutting them off from the world, from their Googling and pondering; from up in the cheap seats, the stage was minuscule, the speakers' faces were dots, the sound didn't travel. The only thing the bloggers really had the inside scoop on were the balloons hanging a few feet away from them in the rafters, in huge sacks of netting. 
 The bloggers had spent this year hammering the mainstream media for failing to tell the ''real story'' of Howard Dean or John Kerry or George W. Bush. And they hammered at the campaigns, too, for failing to make their message clear, for failing to adapt to surprises on the road, in the glare of all that attention. But now they were finding the campaign trail could be rough. Zephyr Teachout sat down next to me on the night of Kerry's speech and started needling the bloggers. ''Look how hard it is to work when the conditions are awful, when you're star struck, when it's hard to find anecdotes that are good,'' she said. 
 And as a seasoned reporter myself -- after two whole conventions -- I can safely say that you get about as many insights into the hearts and souls of the candidates on the campaign trail as you would watching a plastic fern grow. The ever-increasing scrutiny of candidates because of cable and the Internet has only made more evident how impregnable and unfathomable our political machinery has become. Political reporters hanging around drinking and smoking at the conventions said that the bus had changed a lot since 1972. You spend all day watching nothing, fake deli-counter photo ops with six camera crews, and you get yelled at if you walk into the camera shot -- that is, if you dare to go near the guy you're covering. 
 The news media helped create the modern campaign, and now they seem to be stuck in it. The bloggers, by contrast, adapted quickly. By the time the Republican convention rolled around in August, they had figured something out, staying far, far away from that zoo down at Madison Square Garden. They had begun to work the way news people do at manufactured news events, by sticking together, sharing information, repeating one another's best lines. They were learning their limitations, and at the same time they were digging around and critiquing and fact-checking and raising money. They still liked posting dirty jokes and goofy Photoshopped pictures of politicians, but they had hope, and more than a few new ideas, and they were determined to make themselves heard.


GRAPHIC: Photos: For Markos Moulitsas, in white shirt and shown here with other bloggers during the Republican convention, success is becoming a problem. ''Rather than enjoy it,'' he says, ''sometimes I feel really guilty about it.''
Ana Marie Cox, aka the Wonkette, at a party during the Republican convention. ''They've got the raw carrots and radishes,'' she says of her more fervid colleagues in the blogging world, ''and we've got the raw tuna appetizer.''
''What I backed into, in doing this blog, was freedom,'' says Joshua Micah Marshall. ''And not having to write things I didn't believe and not having to write ways I didn't want to write.''
 It wasn't until the Democratic convention that Atrios, one of the most successful anti-Bush bloggers, unmasked himself as Duncan Black, ex-economics professor. Through his blog, he raised $289,332 for the Kerry campaign. (Photographs by Chris Buck for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); WRITERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (63%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Slate (On-Line Magazine)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Matthew Klam; Mickey Kaus; Joshua Micah Marshall; Markos Moulitas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



571 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey, a Blue State, May Be Trying On Shades of Purple

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
To those who view this year's presidential race as a battle between politically polarized red and blue states, New Jersey has usually been viewed as so unquestionably Democratic that it could be colored somewhere between midnight and navy.
 But after trailing Mr. Kerry by 10 points in New Jersey as recently as late August, President Bush has sustained a bounce he received after the Republican convention, and three surveys released within the past 10 days suggest that the race for New Jersey's 15 electoral votes is now a statistical dead heat. 
 No one is certain whether Mr. Bush's surge represents a lasting shift or a momentary blip during a period when the presidential race has veered erratically between fierce personal attacks and withering exchanges about foreign policy. But the varying explanations for the tightening race offer a glimpse of the challenges facing Mr. Kerry as the campaign enters its final weeks. 
 As Republican strategists predicted earlier this year, the message of their convention in Manhattan, which portrayed Mr. Bush as an unflinching avenger in the war on terror, seems to have resonated in New Jersey, which lost 700 residents in the 9/11 attacks, and where the gaping absence on the New York skyline is a backdrop of daily life. The state's Democrats, meanwhile, have spent the past two months buried in an avalanche of bad news: sordid corruption investigations involving Gov. James E. McGreevey's aides and contributors and Mr. McGreevey's resignation amid a sex scandal.
 Beyond those local factors, Mr. Kerry's struggles in New Jersey seem to mirror national trends in which he lost ground among swing voters, independents and soft Democrats after the Republican National Convention. So while a majority of New Jerseyans disapprove of Mr. Bush's performance as president -- and oppose his stands on issues from the war in Iraq and health care to the economy and gay marriage -- Republicans succeeded in focusing the race on Mr. Bush's strongest issue: the war on terror.
 ''Voters trust Bush to do a better job on terrorism, and they see terrorism as more important than the economy or health care, which are Kerry's issues,'' said Maurice Carroll, director of the Quinnipiac University poll released on Tuesday. 
 The poll showed that Mr. Kerry's earlier substantial lead among registered voters had declined, to 47 percent to 43 percent, a tie within the margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage points. And in the category of likely voters, the race was a tie with 48 percent for each candidate and a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.8 percentage points. The results were similar in two other polls, by Survey USA and American Research Group.
 Despite the polls showing a tightening race, neither side is willing to declare New Jersey a true battleground. Strategists for Mr. Bush are watching the state closely, according to Reed Dickens, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney national campaign. 
 But other than a visit by the first lady, Laura Bush, the campaign has not allocated any additional resources for the state.
 Democrats say that during the past two weeks, Mr. Kerry's retooled campaign has begun laying out a more aggressive case against the administration's record on terrorism and Iraq, and are confident that Mr. Kerry will rebound.
 ''As the 9/11 message of the Republicans recedes, New Jersey voters will come back home to Democrats,'' said State Senator John Adler, co-chairman of Mr. Kerry's campaign in New Jersey. ''Still, it's embarrassing that we are even having to have a conversation like this at this point in the race.''
 With its strong unions, vibrant immigrant communities, tolerant views on social issues and concern for the environment, New Jersey has become exceedingly friendly terrain for Democrats during the past two decades. Democrats now control the governor's office, both houses of the State Legislature, both of its United States Senate seats and 7 of its 13 Congressional districts. The state has voted Democratic in every presidential race since 1988. Al Gore won here in 2000 by 16 percentage points.
 This year, however, that strong Democratic tradition has not necessarily translated into support for Mr. Kerry, because of voters like Kimberly Wachs. Ms. Wachs, who lives in Hoboken and works as a lawyer in Jersey City, said that under normal circumstances she would be the prototypical Democrat: 26, female, Jewish, socially moderate and a strong supporter of abortion rights. But Ms. Wachs said that, much to the annoyance of many of her Democratic friends, she will probably cast her vote for Mr. Bush.
 ''I hate Bush's views on abortion,'' she said, eating lunch along the Jersey City waterfront, just across the Hudson River from ground zero. ''I hate what he's going to do to the Supreme Court. I don't like his views on gay marriage. But the four years he's going to have as president are not going to be as bad for social polices as four years of a president who's weak on terror.''
 Part of the reason Mr. Kerry's base is wavering is that he has done little to counter the focused message of Republicans during the past six weeks, according to Cliff Zukin, a political science professor at Rutgers University. Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards have not yet campaigned in the state, although Mr. Edwards plans a public event on Tuesday in Middlesex County. 
 The campaign is not advertising on the New York television stations that serve more than two-thirds of New Jersey residents. That leaves a majority of New Jerseyans relying on news media reports for campaign information -- and during much of August, the coverage focused on the Republican convention, Mr. Kerry's convoluted statements about Iraq and unsupported allegations about his military service record. 
 In some devoutly Democratic sections of the state, the mere fact that Mr. Kerry is not George W. Bush is more than enough reason to support him. Outside a senior citizens' center in Newark's central ward, Chester Williams said he grew furious every time he heard Republicans attempt to link the war in Iraq to the 9/11 attacks.
 ''Bush lied about the war, and now our soldiers are dying'' said Mr. Williams, 65. ''Saddam had nothing to do with the twin towers. Bush wanted to invade Iraq before Sept. 11, because of the oil and because he wanted to settle the score for his daddy.''
 But polls suggest that the gap between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry has narrowed considerably in urban areas, a fact that some civil rights leaders attribute as much to Mr. Kerry's aristocratic style as his unfocused message.
 ''His base is made up of people who are struggling, trying to make it, and here is John Kerry water kayaking, or windsurfing or whatever the heck it is he was doing up there in Nantucket,'' said the Rev. Reginald Jackson, executive director of the Black Ministers Association of New Jersey. In Newark, he said, he had heard people asking, ''What's the brother doing?''
 Another factor may be the turmoil that led to the resignation of Governor McGreevey. While there is no polling data to suggest that Mr. McGreevey's troubles have damaged other Democrats, former Gov. Christie Whitman, chairwoman of Mr. Bush's New Jersey campaign, said that the barrage of negative headlines was almost certainly dispiriting to the party's base.
 Some members of Mr. Kerry's New Jersey campaign have also suggested behind the scenes that Mr. McGreevey has been slow to release money for the state Democratic party to aid in the presidential race. But Kevin Hagan, executive director of the Democratic State Committee, brushed aside those complaints, insisting that both the governor and the state party apparatus were ''totally committed to John Kerry's victory.''
 William Palatucci, finance director of the state Republican party, said he hoped his party would seize the opportunity to campaign vigorously for New Jersey, but added that the high cost of advertising on New York television made that improbable. 
 At Kerry campaign headquarters in Washington, Democratic strategists say they would be delighted to see the president devote resources to a costly long shot like New Jersey. And they say they are heartened that the Quinnipiac poll found that among voters in South Jersey, who have been exposed to the heavy campaign advertising from both candidates on Philadelphia television stations, Mr. Kerry has widened his lead against Mr. Bush. 
 ''New Jersey only votes for moderate Republicans who are pro choice and pro environment, and that ain't George Bush,'' sad Debra DeShong, a spokeswoman for the Kerry campaign. ''If they think George Bush is going to win New Jersey, I've got a turnpike to sell them, too.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the tightening presidential race in New Jersey misidentified the party that won there in 1988. (The error was repeated in an article on Wednesday about President Bush's gains in polls taken in several swing states.) The winner was the Republicans; the Democrats have won the state in the three presidential elections since then.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kimberly Wachs of Hoboken, above, said that she was usually the prototypical Democrat, but that she would probably vote for President Bush. A woman in Princeton, left, needed no convincing from volunteers for John Kerry on Thursday. (Photo by Frank Dougherty for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jim Cummins for The New York Times)(pg. 43)Chart: ''A Narrowing Gap''Among likely voters in New Jersey, including undecided voters leaning toward a candidate, Senator John Kerry and President George W. Bush are tied, 48 to 48. Shown here are polls of all registered voters, whose preferences have been tracked through the summer
 Kerry leads Bush 47 to 43, a statistical tie.Graph tracks voters for both candidates from May 20th through Sept. 21st.(Source by Quinnipiac University polls, the most recent conducted Sept. 1619 with 943 registered voters in New Jersey, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.)(pg. 43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); ETHICS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SCANDALS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); SEX SCANDALS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); AVALANCHES (50%); MARRIAGE (50%) Homosexuality; Ethics; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Conventions, National (US); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%) David Kocieniewski; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%) New Jersey; New Jersey; New York City; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



572 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Getting To Average

BYLINE: By HENRY LOUIS GATES JR.. 
E-mail: hlgates@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When black policy types let themselves dream about racial uplift, they dream about getting to average. The fantasy isn't that inequality vanishes; it's that inequality in black America catches up with inequality in white America. And, for the moment, a fantasy is all it is. Since the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., the black middle class has increased significantly, yet the percentage of black children living in poverty has hovered between 30 and 40 percent.
 ''Look at what we could achieve if we got to be average!'' Franklin Raines, the C.E.O. of Fannie Mae, told me. ''We don't need to take everybody from the ghetto and make them Harvard graduates. We just need to get folks to average, and we'd all look around and say, 'My God, what a fundamental change has happened in this country.''' 
 How big a change? He's done the math. ''If America had racial equality in education and jobs, African-Americans would have two million more high school degrees, two million more college degrees, nearly two million more professional and managerial jobs, and nearly $200 billion more income,'' he pointed out in a speech. ''If America had racial equality in housing, three million more Americans would own their own homes. And if America had racial equality in wealth, African-Americans would have $760 billion more in equity value, $200 billion more in the stock market, $120 billion more in their retirement funds and $80 billion more in the bank.'' Total: Over $1 trillion. 
 Recently, I asked a few experts on poverty in black America about how we might get to average. I heard a lot of deep breaths. When they picture black America, they see Buffalo -- a boarded-up central city and a few lakefront mansions. The glory days for the black working class were from 1940 to 1970, when manufacturing boomed and factory jobs were plentiful. But when the manufacturing sector became eclipsed by the service economy, black workers ended up -- well, stuck in a demographic Buffalo. 
 My colleague William Julius Wilson, the sociologist, thinks better manpower policies would help. Once black workers moved to where the jobs were; they need to do it again. Instead of trying to turn ghettos into boomtowns, then, we ought to provide workers with relocation assistance, and create ''transitional public sector jobs'' for those who haven't yet found a private-sector gig. Oh, and -- since we're dreaming -- fixing the schools would be nice, including ''school-to-work transition programs,'' to place high school grads in the job market. 
 Raines, as you might expect, considers homeownership to be crucial to wealth generation. ''The average person develops more wealth in their home than they do in the stock market. Next to a job, it's the most important thing in a family's lives.'' Blacks, he notes, are considerably less likely to own their own homes than whites. 
 How to afford one, though? ''The whole new service economy is fundamentally based on communications, the Internet, electronics,'' he told me. ''That infrastructure is going to need people who can manage it, and those jobs are going to move from very high tech to being service jobs, just the way it happened at the telephone company. You used to have to be a scientist to operate a phone, and then it became a blue-collar job.''
 But maybe, as the economist Glenn Loury suggests, we need to aim lower. ''There doesn't seem to be an end in sight to the vast, disproportionate overrepresentation of African-Americans in prison or jails,'' he told me. ''It's our deepest problem.'' Job training for willing prisoners would be a good start.
 Loury considers welfare reform a success: ''We ask a lot more of mothers, and they have given us a lot more, and they and we are both better off for our having asked.'' When it comes to education, though, he advocates ''equal expenditures per kid, no matter where they live.'' In fact, he'd spend more money on inferior school districts, at least over the short run, to bring them up to standard.
 Would any of these initiatives really make much of a difference in an age of offshoring? As everyone I spoke to agreed, we're unlikely to find out. There just isn't the political will, in either party. The White House has relegated its costly experiments in social engineering to Iraq. And so the 60's generation now seems to be presiding over the permanent entrenchment of a vast black underclass.
 Has average really become too much to ask for?

Henry Louis Gates Jr. is a guest columnist through September. Thomas L. Friedman is on book leave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POVERTY RATES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (65%); SOCIOLOGY (60%) Blacks; Children and Youth; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); FRANK RAINES (54%) Henry Louis Jr Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004



573 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Real Candidates Have Curves

BYLINE: By Alex Alben. 
Alex Alben, a retired software company executive, is an adjunct professor at the University of Washington School of Law.

DATELINE: BELLEVUE, WASH. 

 BODY:
In the ''stretch run'' of my recent bid for Congress, my media advisers and I huddled to make a crucial decision: should I wear spandex bike shorts in my final television commercial? 
 Observers of my candidacy for Washington State's Eighth Congressional District considered me to be the most prepared for the job. Yet I knew from the beginning that I would be judged not by my ability to articulate policy proposals, but by my media image. 
 Like all serious candidates these days, I spent the bulk of my time calling wealthy people and political action committees, asking them for money so that I could get my message out. That message, delivered in direct mail and on television, would determine my success or failure.
 The first frame of the television spot established me on my bicycle along a ''lonely road.'' Other riders joined me as I progressed from rural to urban parts of my district, until I crossed the finish line surrounded by a cheering crowd. While I'm athletic, my media guru warned me about the perils of wearing spandex bike shorts in public. Apparently, unflattering bulges have sunk more than a few political wannabes. 
 Today's political landscape is shaped by narrow opportunities for candidates to reach the public with their qualifications and ideas. Even though my House race was considered a top national target because it was an open seat in a swing district, voters only had the chance to witness all candidates on the same platform in one radio and one television debate. 
 And, unfortunately, I'm not the kind of person who can condense his thoughts easily into 30-second sound bites. Frankly, it was difficult enough for me to learn how to compress 30-minute speeches covering complex topics -- the health care crisis, a new energy plan based on alternative fuels and a blueprint for economic innovation -- into a six-minute stump speech.
 My strategy for victory relied on the final TV spot -- spandex and all -- and an energetic grassroots campaign of phone-banking and door-belling. Despite stellar endorsements and a substantial edge in fundraising, I got squeezed in a three-way race and lost to a well-known radio talk show host.
 While the failings of my campaign are my own, I can't help but thinking that a few changes to our modern political process would improve the caliber of our candidate selection process.
 If every radio and television station licensed by the Federal Communications Commission were required to devote three hours to each Congressional race, the amount of electronic coverage would increase tenfold. 
 Since the airwaves are publicly owned, we should demand that Congress and the F.C.C. mandate broader coverage of important political races. The lack of broadcast media attention to local races collides with the increasing ability of well-financed candidates to dominate local airwaves through paid media. 
 Even well-financed candidates agree that the system is out of balance. Without such changes, money and celebrity will continue to dominate politics, because those with recognizable names or big checkbooks will prevail in local contests.
 The custodians of the public airwaves have an obligation to help candidates engage the public on issues that matter. That way we won't have to worry about displaying our bodies encased in Spandex.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (75%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); FUNDRAISING (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%) Radio; Television; Finances; News and News Media ; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%) Federal Communications Commission; House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: Alex Alben

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



574 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: What would Benjamin Franklin say? Philadelphia plans citywide free Wi-Fi Internet access for computer users.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
FORGET cheese steaks, cream cheese and brotherly love. Philadelphia wants to be known as the city of laptops. 
 The city recently announced a two-year effort to string a free wireless network across its 135 square miles, potentially giving Philadelphia an entirely new identity as the most wired -- or unwired -- municipality on the planet. But skeptics said this initiative, as well as similar efforts elsewhere across the United States, could also run aground on its own ambitions. 
 In a recent survey by Jupiter Communications, 8 percent of online consumers said they had tried accessing the Web through wireless connections. About half said they had no need or desire to do so. And because many of Philadelphia's households have no computer -- let alone a computer with an Internet connection -- the city's numbers would fall far below those figures. 
 ''Consumer interest will grow, slowly, but right now, they don't have the equipment or desire for this,'' said Julie Ask, a wireless analyst with Jupiter.
 For those considering municipal wireless projects, the big questions go beyond how quickly consumers will warm to the service. Cities and towns are also weighing whether the technology is as cheap and reliable as many perceive, and whether these projects will lure customers from local Internet providers, thereby undermining the economic benefits such initiatives are meant to provide.
 Philadelphia is betting its technological reputation that these concerns will not derail its ambitious plan. According to Dianah Neff, the city's chief information officer, the plan is to offer free wireless access in public areas, using Wi-Fi, the wireless fidelity standard, but free or lower-cost connections could also extend to households or businesses that qualify for economic assistance. Ms. Neff said she believed the project could be started by next June and completed a year later at a cost of $10 million, which the city would raise privately. 
 ''Obviously we won't tax people,'' she said. ''But I've already had extreme interest from banking institutions interested in investing. It's a very do-able funding structure.''
 Building a 135-square-mile hot spot to serve 1.5 million people would not be too hard, Ms. Neff suggested. The city would probably mount wireless transmitters on light poles, which it owns, to send signals throughout the area. But, she said, Philadelphia would not become a municipal Internet company. ''This won't be government-run,'' she said. Among other options, the city could pass the project to a management company, which would build and run the system in exchange for user fees. ''We'll look at all the pros and cons for each possible model,'' she said.
 The plan's proponents argue that wireless Internet access would benefit Philadelphia in many ways. First, Ms. Neff said, wireless connections would speed economic development in areas where businesses cannot afford to pay $800 to $1,500 monthly for high-speed T-1 lines. The wireless initiative would also improve education, Ms. Neff said, because children would have better access to information, and parents could communicate more effectively with teachers. 
 Because more than 70 percent of the city's students qualify for economic assistance, she said, few families currently can afford to do that.
 ''The reason we won't just let the market do this is that there are societal needs that aren't inherently part of the capitalist system. We need to be sure no communities in Philadelphia are excluded, whether there's an R.O.I. or not,'' Ms. Neff said, using the initials for return on investment.
 As to whether enough Internet users are sufficiently enthusiastic about wireless technology to justify the investment, Ms. Neff pointed to a pilot test in the city's Love Park, in which 1,200 users logged on during a two-month stretch beginning in June. ''It was a very, very positive response,'' she said.
 Other city leaders are grappling with the question of whether to follow in Philadelphia's footsteps. ''I can't say why we should be investing taxpayer dollars in this,'' said Bill Schrier, chief technology officer for Seattle. ''There might be reasons. I just can't answer the question at the moment.''
 Mr. Schrier said the city recently asked a group of private citizens to help decide whether to build a wireless network, perhaps atop Seattle's light poles.
 City government may be poorly suited to oversee such things as network security and customer service, he said. And with the advent of new wireless technologies like the Wi-Max standard, in which transmitters could send signals 30 miles instead of 300 feet, the city risks adopting a system destined for obsolescence.
 Furthermore, Mr. Schrier said, a municipal Internet initiative could hurt city businesses that sell similar services.
 Ms. Neff of Philadelphia said she met with executives of Comcast, which is based in the city, and found them ''very interested in the contract on the management and support on this.''
 Asked for comment, however, Comcast gave a more tepid response. A statement from the company said, in part, ''we are looking forward to assisting our hometown to make an informed decision.''
 Some cities have found success in working with commercial Internet providers. Hermosa Beach, Calif., for instance, last month introduced a system to provide free wireless access, primarily to businesses and residents in the downtown area. A local Internet company, LA Unplugged, bid to run the project, which is being financed by advertisements on log-in screens.
 According to Michael Keegan, the Hermosa Beach city council member who led the project, the council will vote early next month on whether to extend the project to all 21,000 residents. If it does, he said, the city will have to find an additional $500 to $700 in monthly advertising revenues to maintain the system and raise an additional $65,000 to buy equipment. ''Which will be no problem,'' Mr. Keegan said. ''Even if we don't, this will cost taxpayers maybe 50 cents each. Maybe.''
 The average Internet user will have to spend between $75 and $150 to set up their homes to receive wireless signals, Mr. Keegan said. Wireless cards for notebook computer users cost about $40.
 Mr. Keegan said he was not worried that the service might hurt existing Internet providers. ''Should I care? I'm not a shareholder,'' he said. ''I'm more concerned about residents, and they love it.'' 
 New York City has cast its lot with commercial Internet providers. It recently awarded contracts to six wireless contractors, who paid a total of $23 million for the right to use 3,000 city light poles as bases for cellular and, possibly, wireless Internet service for paying customers. 
 Citizens of Austin, Tex., are sidestepping any potential conflict between city government and Internet companies through the Austin Wireless City Project, a nonprofit organization. Richard MacKinnon, the project's president, said the organization's volunteers had set up 85 free Wi-Fi zones, or hot spots, to serve about 15,000 registered users.
 Just as with the Hermosa Beach effort, Mr. MacKinnon said, the project finances each hot spot with advertising. If a local restaurant establishes a free wireless access point, for example, when users log in to the network, they see an advertisement for that restaurant's daily specials. 
 Even if local residents use that wireless signal as their home Internet connection, ''it's really strong messaging for the neighbors of that restaurant,'' said Mr. MacKinnon. ''It encourages them to come in.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dianah Neff, the chief information officer for Philadelphia, said the city plans to make all public places wireless access points, turning the city into a 135-square-mile hot spot. (Photo by Bradley C. Bower for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (89%); CITIES (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Computers and the Internet; Finances; Wireless Communications; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi; Dianah Neff

GEOGRAPHIC: JUPITER (88%) UNITED STATES (92%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



575 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Powell, Then and Now

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin Powell, discussing the Iraq war during an appearance at The Times on Friday, did not have the crisp certitude of the general who assured us in 1991 that the first gulf war was going almost precisely as planned.
 Thirteen years ago Mr. Powell was the supremely confident, almost cocky, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. At press briefings he would describe the plan for defeating Saddam Hussein's army, which had invaded and occupied Kuwait, as follows: ''First we're going to cut it off, and then we're going to kill it.'' 
 He would detail the air, land and naval forces closing in on the Iraqis and say: ''I'm not telegraphing anything. I just want everybody to know that we have a tool box that's full of tools, and I brought them all to the party.''
 He had every reason to be brash. The U.S.-led coalition went into the first gulf war with a coherent plan, extensive international support and overwhelming military superiority, including more than half a million American troops.
 Last Friday, surrounded by reporters and editors, Secretary Powell had a decidedly different message. He refused to paint a rosy picture of the current war's progress. ''We've got a tough road ahead of us,'' he said. He acknowledged that the resistance encountered by American troops was stronger than the administration had anticipated, and he added, ''I'm not going to underestimate or understate the seriousness of the insurgency.''
 The resistance, he said, is a ''black cloud'' over U.S. efforts in Iraq.
 Mr. Powell's candor was refreshing. But what we're not getting from the Bush administration is any sense of where we go from here with this war that never made sense, has cost more than 1,000 American lives, has further destabilized the Middle East and has energized the forces of terror that are the real threat to the U.S.
 Bush administration officials are busy lowering expectations about the elections scheduled for January. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld now tells us it's fine if elections reach just three-quarters or four-fifths of the country. Secretary Powell, in an interview on CNN yesterday, said: ''There will be polling stations that are shot at. There will be insurgents who will be out there who will try to keep people from voting.''
 No earthly amount of spin can make a credible case that Iraq is on the road to freedom and democracy. 
 Meanwhile, in yet another echo of Vietnam, American commanders in Iraq are begging for more troops. It was ever thus. Commanders thrust into these unwinnable wars against foreign insurgencies always believe that just a few thousand more troops will turn the tide. Americans were told again and again that there was light at the end of the tunnel in Vietnam. The troops sent into that nightmare would dryly remark that the light was coming from an onrushing train.
 Rather than destroying an enemy army, which was the goal of the first gulf war, the U.S. military is now spinning its wheels in the Iraqi sand. No one is sure who or where the enemy is, or even what the U.S. mission is. And it is in that horrendous, senseless environment that American troops are getting shot to death or blown up or horribly maimed every single day.
 At home, Americans seem to have forgotten what an ill-advised war can do to the United States. More than three decades after it was published, David Halberstam's ''The Best and the Brightest'' should still be required reading. Lyndon Johnson had hoped Vietnam would be a short war, Mr. Halberstam wrote, and he was afraid of the political consequences if the true economic costs became visible:
 ''The result was that his economic planning was a living lie, and his administration took us into economic chaos: the Great Society programs were passed but never funded on any large scale; the war itself ran into severe budgetary problems (the decision in 1968 to put a ceiling on the American troops was as much economic as political); and the most important, the failure to finance the war honestly would inspire a virulent inflationary spiral which helped defeat Johnson himself. Seven years after the commitment of combat troops, that inflation was still very much alive and was forcing a successor Administration into radical, desperate economic measures in order to restore some financial balance.''
 We've been there, done that, and now we're doing it again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ARMIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); POLITICS (67%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Persian Gulf War; Terrorism; Politics and Government

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Bob Herbert; Colin L (Sec) Powell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



576 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: The Secret Trade Courts

 BODY:
In Ecuador, residents of the country's eastern rainforest are suing ChevronTexaco. They say that the methods Texaco used to drill for oil in the 1970's and 1980's caused billions of dollars in environmental damage and health problems that continue today. ChevronTexaco, which stands a good chance of losing the lawsuit, has now demanded that the government-owned Ecuadorean oil company pay whatever damages are imposed and the costs of cleanup. On this issue ChevronTexaco has a good chance of winning. The reason is that its demand will be heard by arbitrators, not by a court, and arbitration greatly favors corporations. 
 Some arbitration is necessary in international trade, not least because courts in many poor countries are corrupt, inept or unfair. Partly for this reason, the United States trade representative has pushed countries to include clauses in trade agreements allowing companies to take trade disputes to arbitration, bypassing courts. But the arbitration process itself is often one-sided, favoring well-heeled corporations over poor countries, and must be made fairer than it is today. Unlike trials, arbitrations take place in secret. There is no room in the process to hear people who might be hurt, in this case Ecuador's rainforest dwellers. There is no appeal. And the rules of the game are such that when companies seek to recover damages, arbitration panels tend to focus narrowly on the issue of whether a company's profits were affected by a government action. They need not consider whether the action or law in question was necessary to protect the environment or public health, or even to stop a corporation's harmful behavior.
 The result is that polluters who are shut down can and do receive considerable compensation. When Mexico barred Metalclad, an American company, from building a toxic-waste treatment plant without a permit on a site authorities considered dangerous, the company won a $16.7 million judgment. Such suits discourage environmental regulation. When an American manufacturer of a gasoline additive filed an arbitration claim against Canada, Canada revoked a rule prohibiting the additive and paid the company $18 million.
 Companies also use arbitration to insulate themselves from the risks of doing business. Claiming damage from Argentina's decision to let the peso float in 2001 and 2002, at least 27 companies have filed for arbitration -- even though the decision was arguably necessary to fend off an economic depression and even though ordinary Argentines suffered greatly during the crisis.
 The trade agreements that set the rules should direct arbitration panels to take a much broader view -- to consider not just corporate interests but the needs of governments and citizens. The panels should also be required to invite a wider range of views. Because their decisions have great public impact, arbitration panels owe the public a hearing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DAMAGES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%); FUEL ADDITIVES (61%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation; Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (90%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



577 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Offer Guidance For a Dirty-Bomb Aftermath

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
The federal government is preparing to publish advice for state and local governments on how to react if terrorists set off a ''dirty bomb,'' including how much radiation exposure from such an attack is acceptable for the public. 
 The document is intended for the officials who would oversee public health and safety after such an attack, to help them decide when activity could return to normal.
 ''There's a lot of consternation over what the cleanup levels should be,'' Brooke Buddemeier, a radiation specialist for the Department of Homeland Security, told a group of nuclear specialists during a presentation last week. ''We had a pretty good idea what they should be for Superfund sites or a Nuclear Regulatory Commission power plant release.'' 
 But an attack using conventional explosives to spread radioactive materials -- a dirty bomb -- would probably occur in a far more prominent location than a toxic-waste site or a power plant, and the need to resume using the site would be higher, said Mr. Buddemeier, in his presentation to a National Academy of Sciences group.
 When balancing the risk of radiation exposure against the benefit of returning to normal activity, the government safety recommendations will weigh the importance of the contaminated location to economic or political life, said a radiation scientist who works for one of seven federal agencies drafting the document.
 Thus a major train station, cargo port or building in Lower Manhattan might be reoccupied sooner than a suburban shopping mall, said the scientist, who asked not to be identified because the document had not yet been published. 
 The federal government already has guides for use by local officials in case of accidental release of radioactive material from a nuclear power plant or fuel fabrication plant.
 One reason for drafting advice on radiological bombs now, participants say, is to reinforce the idea that a dirty bomb is primarily a psychological weapon that distributes radiation in quantities too small to make any measurable difference to health.
 In fact, the effect of small radiation doses is a highly charged subject, usually coupled with a debate over nuclear power. Opponents of power reactors argue that even tiny doses of radiation raise long-term risks of cancer and birth defects and are not worth the benefits of power generation.
 In the current effort, however, the balance would be completely different.
 Federal officials stumbled upon this problem in May 2003 when they conducted a drill to practice their communications and decision-making for cleaning up after a terrorist attack. The drill, called ''Top Off 2,'' which simulated a release of radioactive materials in Seattle, revealed confusion about how the radioactive materials would spread and how decisions should be made about when it would be safe to return to normal. 
 The radiation scientist said, ''Do you really want to shut down the port of Seattle because you don't want to get 5 or 10 million millirem of dose? Do you want to economically cripple an entire country because of that, an infinitesimally small risk, if it is any risk at all?'' 
 The exposures contemplated for the public would be small relative to the average dose received from natural sources, perhaps 10 times as large, experts say. The biggest health risk of a dirty bomb would most likely be from the blast itself, and outside the blast area doses would be quite small. 
 But people involved in drafting the document say that public fear of radiation may make it hard to communicate that idea. 
 The document is part of a much larger effort to prepare for all kinds of attacks and accidents. It is to be published as a draft, for public comment, and when completed would still be only advisory. Don Jacks, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said that the document was now in the hands of the director of the agency and would go from there to the secretary of homeland security, Tom Ridge, and then to the White House's Office of Management and Budget before publication. Mr. Jacks said he hoped it would be published by the end of this year. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about preparations by the federal government to advise states and cities on how to react if terrorists set off a ''dirty bomb'' misstated the size of a radiation dose that would be inconsequential and should not cause contaminated areas to be closed down. It is 5 or 10 millirem -- not 5 or 10 million millirem. 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); DIRTY BOMBS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); SUPERFUND (75%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); EXPLOSIVES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (50%) Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



578 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. Begins Hiring Effort To Lift Its Liberal Arts Standing

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
New York University is on a hiring campaign that it hopes will put its graduate and undergraduate liberal arts programs on sounder footing and give them the stature of some of its most prominent professional schools.
 Over the next five years, it plans to expand its 625-member arts and science faculty by 125 members, and replace another 125 who are expected to leave. 
 ''The ambition here is to live out what it means to be a first-class university,'' said John E. Sexton, N.Y.U.'s president.
 Earlier this year, an accreditation team of scholars from outside N.Y.U. said that the size of N.Y.U.'s arts and science faculty was ''marginally adequate,'' given its student population. It added that unless the university expanded the liberal arts faculty, ''it will not be able to achieve the full promise of its intellectual role, nor meet the needs of the recent excellence of the undergraduates.'' 
 Mr. Sexton, who began to shape his new hiring plan just as the accreditation panel was visiting the campus, said that deans across the university were supporting the investment in liberal arts because they understood that it would enhance the reputation of the whole university. 
 The plan goes beyond simple additions to the faculty, however. Another goal is to try to make the liberal arts more of the intellectual core of the university, rather than one more school in a confederation of schools.
 Although the university will announce a $2.5 billion capital campaign tomorrow -- it has already raised $1 billion of that goal in the preliminary ''quiet phase'' and plans to raise the rest within four years -- that campaign will not give N.Y.U. the spending power Mr. Sexton wants right now for the arts and sciences. 
 So Mr. Sexton is developing a $200 million war chest to be spent immediately on the new professors -- and on offices, laboratories and housing for them. As a first step, he has lined up five trustees as ''partners'' in the initiative, who are putting up $10 million each -- to be matched by $150 million more the trustees have said they will raise.
 In the past 20 years, New York University has leapfrogged from an also-ran commuter school into the cadre of elite American research universities. Its challenge now is to stabilize its financial position and, at the same time, try to move up in those highly competitive rankings.
 Raising a university's standing is never easy, since other universities are trying to do the same thing. Nabbing top faculty members means paying premium salaries and providing generous lab space, offices and housing in a tight and costly real estate market.
 N.Y.U. is not the only university recruiting many professors at once. Other universities also engaged in wholesale hiring include Brown (expanding 20 percent in five to eight years), Temple (hiring 176 new professors this year and next), the University of Southern California (hiring 100 new senior faculty members at its College of Letters, Arts and Sciences) and the City University of New York (adding 300 new faculty members and staff at its six community colleges).
 ''We think this is a very good time to build the strength of academic programs,'' said David Adamany, Temple's president. ''So we have made resource allocations especially to academic programs.''
 He said that a clear advantage of hiring so many professors at once is the ''bandwagon effect.''
 ''The word gets out that you are recruiting aggressively, that you are building,'' he said. ''Other faculty members who have a reason to move look at your institution.''
 N.Y.U. is trying to compete with the likes of Harvard, Princeton and Yale, but without their endowments. Harvard, the endowment king, had nearly $23 billion in June. N.Y.U., which has a much larger student body -- nearly 40,000 students, about twice that of Harvard -- has about $1.3 billion.
 The outside accreditation team called N.Y.U.'s resources ''thinly stretched'' and recommended expanding its financial cushion and becoming less dependent on tuition.
 The decision to raise new money and spend it immediately parallels N.Y.U.'s successful strategy in the 1980's and early 1990's. That is how it built its stature so quickly -- and one reason its endowment is not larger. Because of conservative investing, the N.Y.U. endowment largely missed the sharp rise in stock prices during the market's prolonged upturn, a period when many other university endowments ballooned.
 But when Mr. Sexton was named president three years ago, he concluded that N.Y.U. could not continue to pay for its growth through borrowing and further expansion of its student body -- conclusions backed by the accrediting committee.
 The number of full-time undergraduates grew 45 percent between 1992 and 2003, and in Mr. Sexton's first year as president, N.Y.U. had a deficit of $70 million on a budget of $1.2 billion. It limited new hiring, faculty raises and other spending, and also raised tuition 6.3 percent. These measures helped pull the university into the black, Mr. Sexton said, paving the way for the new expansion.
 The trustees backing the new faculty initiative expressed optimism that N.Y.U. is taking the right path.
 ''Ultimately, a school is no better than its faculty and its students,'' said William Berkeley, a 1966 N.Y.U. graduate who founded his own insurance company and is one of the five $10 million ''partners.'' ''If you look at how far we've come, we don't have very far to go. But near the top of the mountain, it gets a lot steeper. And that's where we are.''
 So far, N.Y.U. has selected eight departments for its hiring campaign, including biology, physics, mathematics and English. Mr. Sexton said the success of the university's recent hiring in economics is a model for what it hopes to do in other departments. It plans to concentrate on fields where it can develop a name and build on existing strengths.
 ''Science is an area where we have to be highly strategic,'' Mr. Sexton said. ''It is very expensive. We have chosen niches because we can't cover the waterfront like Harvard and M.I.T.'' Among other fields, N.Y.U. plans to focus on comparative plant genomics, astrophysics and soft condensed matter, which relates to substances like plastics and polymers.
 J. David Velleman, a University of Michigan philosophy professor who has agreed to move to N.Y.U. next July, said the Sexton plan impressed him, particularly in that rather than adding ''bells and whistles, like institutes and special projects,'' N.Y.U. is building its basic infrastructure.
 ''A lot of administrators don't go in for that because it is not as sexy,'' he said. ''But it is the right way to do it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: New York University

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



579 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Patents; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: In a forthcoming book, two professors make suggestions on reinventing the patent system.

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand

 BODY:
SINCE 1793, the federal government has issued patents to inventors, giving them exclusive ownership of an idea as well as the right to prevent others from using it. Now some experts argue that achieving those rights stifles innovation.
 Two professors conclude in a new book that a couple of unrelated and seemingly innocuous administrative reforms of the patent system have caused a shift away from encouraging innovation in favor of exploiting patents largely for lawsuits.
 Josh Lerner and Adam B. Jaffe have written a book with a title: ''Innovation and Its Discontents: How Our Broken Patent System is Endangering Innovation and Progress, and What To Do About It,'' to be published in November by Princeton University Press. 
 Mr. Lerner, a professor of investment banking at the Harvard Business School, and Mr. Jaffe, a professor of economics at Brandeis University, trace this breakdown to the early 1980's, when a single federal appeals court was established to hear patent lawsuits, replacing 12 regional courts of appeal. 
 Then in the early 1990's, Congress changed the patent office's financing, so the agency could pay for itself with user fees.
 From his home outside Boston, Mr. Lerner last week described the patent system, 20 years after the reforms, as mired in ''the land of unintended consequences.''
 ''Again and again in the patent system, we see people set out to do reforms with one thing in mind, but that have quite an unintended effect,'' he said. ''The easier it became to get patents, the more people wanted to apply for them, and that led to a situation where examiners grappled with more patents to review, which led to them being pressed to do quicker reviews and a degradation in quality of patents issued.''
 The patent agency has often struggled to keep up with the times. In recent years, the agency has confronted entirely new areas like biotechnology, software-related inventions, financial and business methods, Internet-based inventions and other information-technology innovations.
 Some of the changes designed to deal with these occurred amid extensive public debate. Others got little attention because they seemed like innocuous administrative reforms -- like the ones that made patents easier to get, Mr. Lerner said.
 But many of those patents caused a secondary reaction, he added.
 ''The ability to litigate and expect to get substantial award from litigation increased,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''So as a result we've got somewhat of a vicious cycle. Once you get one firm in an industry beginning a strategy of aggressive patent enforcement, it creates an almost inevitable response -- an almost arms-race dynamic -- where everyone else in the industry says, 'We better be doing the same thing.'''
 He suggested that these changes for the worse occurred because ''there's a relatively small group of people in the D.C. patent bar, and they have a very powerful influence on how patent policy gets decided. There is a powerful incentive for them to keep a patent system that is complicated, and one that involves protracted, costly litigation.'' 
 Also, Mr. Lerner said, businesses often fail to understand the importance of subtle changes in patent law.
 ''It is perhaps because of the complexity of patent issues, and because there is no long tradition of work by economists in this area, because a lot of corporations see it as second order relative to tax policy changes, for example, which directly affect their bottom line,'' he explained. ''Patent policy has an indirect affect.''
 The book lays out a strategy. ''Our idea is that three things will potentially make a big difference,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''First of all, this idea which may well have made sense in 19th century of a patent examiner being able to sit and in few hours figure out what a relevant technology is, and then go out and make a decision as to whether a patent should be granted or not, that really doesn't make sense in an era like today.
 ''Second, to see the patent review process as 'one size fits all' is again a mistake. There has to be way to figure out how to devote more resources to those patent applications which are really the important ones, and less to the unimportant ones.''
 The two professors say one solution is to get more information into the hands of patent examiners. 
 ''Our recommendation is that we create very real incentives to third parties to contribute information to the patent-examining process,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''There should be one level of review before and after the patent is issued, but within the patent office.''
 The authors' third remedy is to reverse the trend toward jury trials for patent lawsuits.
 ''Over the last 30 to 40 years, there has been real replacing of judges by juries,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''Patent disputes by and large tend to be highly technical disputes, and in many cases a lay person without much training in the area is hardly an expert.''
 The Federal Circuit Court has already divided patent cases into two areas: the interpretation of claims and questions of validity. Judges handle the former, while juries can settle the latter.
 ''Our argument is that there is no difference between the two, so no clear reason why both questions couldn't be decided by judges,'' Mr. Lerner said.
 But even with these remedies, he said ''dramatic change is unlikely until corporations start understanding how some features of the patent system today really affect them.''
 ''And not just understanding from an assistant general counsel in charge of intellectual property, but until it really gets to be an issue at the C.E.O. level,'' Mr. Lerner added. 
 ''Last year, the Federal Trade Commission came out with a report that raised many of these same issues, but as good as the F.T.C. report was, I can't imagine that a lot of C.E.O.'s are going to be plodding through all the footnotes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Adam B. Jaffe, left, and Josh Lerner argue that past reforms to the patent system have been detrimental to innovation. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (97%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PATENT LAW (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%) Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Books and Literature; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Josh (Prof) Lerner; Adam B (Prof) Jaffe; Sabra Chartrand

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



580 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Tax Havens Costly to U.S., Study Says

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
America's biggest corporations are increasingly funneling profits earned in the United States to tax havens around the globe, depriving the United States Treasury of anywhere from $10 billion to $20 billion in lost tax revenue each year, according to a new study.
 The study, to be published today in the trade journal Tax Notes, says that United States multinational corporations shifted $75 billion in domestic profits last year to no-tax and low-tax foreign havens like Bermuda and Ireland.
 The study's author, Martin A. Sullivan, said that legal loopholes and tax credits could mean in theory that no taxes are owed to the United States government on the shifted income. But he wrote that the shifting is more likely to result in annual tax losses to federal coffers of $10 billion to $20 billion. He said yesterday that at least some of the transfer probably occurred through questionable tax shelters. 
 In a related study, published by Tax Notes earlier this month, Mr. Sullivan concluded that that profits reported by American multinational companies from their foreign subsidiaries, and not from their operations based in the United States, soared 68 percent since 1999, to $149 billion last year. The earlier study said that the rise in foreign earnings was not accompanied by any gain in real economic activity in the tax havens, suggesting that multinationals were increasingly using offshore tax shelters to shield earnings.
 Mr. Sullivan is a former Treasury Department economist who specialized in international taxation. His study is based on Commerce Department data. His estimates of domestic profit-shifting and the corresponding tax losses are for earnings generated by the United States-based operations of American multinational companies, and not for earnings generated by their foreign subsidiaries in low-tax countries.
 Under current United States tax laws, American companies can defer taxes on profits earned offshore as long as those profits are not returned to the United States. An updated study by J.P. Morgan Chase in June 2003 said that $650 billion held offshore by American corporations like Exxon Mobil and General Electric was waiting in accounts to be repatriated to the United States if proposed legislation enacting a highly reduced rate is enacted. 
 Christopher Edwards, a tax specialist at the Cato Institute, a libertarian policy research organization in Washington, said that while he had not seen Mr. Sullivan's study, ''corporations are more able than ever to move both their paper profits as well as general investments overseas.''
 Mr. Sullivan's new study did not mention any companies by name. He has previously cited the pharmaceutical industry as a leading shifter of domestic profits to overseas havens, but he said in his current study that other industries were doing the same thing. The J.P. Morgan Chase study said that the United States manufacturing sector accounted for 41 percent of unrepatriated earnings.
 In their public filings, companies are often unclear about what percentage of their profits comes from domestic operations as opposed to foreign operations, and they almost never discuss profit-shifting.
 For example, Pfizer, the pharmaceutical giant, said in its 2003 annual report that as of the end of last year, it had not made a United States tax provision on what it called $38 billion of unremitted earnings at its international subsidiaries. It was not clear whether that money was actually earned by the international subsidiaries or by Pfizer's operations in the United States and later shifted to those subsidiaries for tax purposes, and a Pfizer spokesman declined last Friday to provide any details or comments. 
 Some American corporations argue that United States corporate taxes are too high and that some profits held overseas are legitimately channeled into operations there, improving financial strength and providing value to shareholders. 
 Mr. Sullivan said yesterday that it was not clear what portion of the $75 billion in the current study was included in the $149 billion cited in the earlier study. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%) Taxation; Research; Tax Shelters; Multinational Companies; Taxation

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: Martin A Sullivan; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



581 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Lifeline

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''How Not to Save Social Security'' (editorial, ''The Big Issues'' series, Sept. 23), you note that older women are particularly dependent on Social Security.
 In fact, more than 40 percent of widowed, divorced and never-married older women rely on these benefits for 90 percent of their income.
 President Bush assures us that benefits of people near or in retirement would not be reduced under his plan. He needs to know that so long as women are paid less than men, are the primary caregivers for children and aged parents, and live longer, women will be at an economic disadvantage. They will need the inflation protection and the guaranteed income of the current Social Security system. 
 Women have the most to lose from President Bush's plan.

Lou Glasse
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Sept. 23, 2004

The writer was director of the New York State Office for the Aging, 1976-83.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); AGING (88%); CHILDREN (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MARRIAGE (71%) Social Security (US); Women

PERSON: Lou Glasse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



582 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Automakers Attack Proposal to Address Global Warming'' (Business Day, Sept. 23):
 That powerful economic interests -- with their lawyers, lobbyists and eager politicians -- are lining up to fight an inadequate, baby-step plan to lessen automotive greenhouse emissions 30 percent by 2016 shows that our huge global warming experiment is likely to proceed unchecked. 
 We are all test subjects in the largest and most uncontrolled experimental trial in human history, and it's being conducted not by scientists but by uninformed consumers and profit-seeking organizations. 
 Increasingly chaotic weather is just one of many ugly realities we're going to have to accept, to say nothing of what our children and grandchildren will face. Any leader or would-be leader who dodges climate change is irresponsibly and immorally ignoring the real issue of the century.

Dan Carsen
Brookline, Mass., Sept. 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); DEREGULATION (68%) Weather; Automobiles ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Global Warming

PERSON: Dan Carsen

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



583 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
WILSON, DAVID ANTHONY III

 BODY:
 WILSON--David Anthony III. Age twenty-one, died on Wednesday, September 22, 2004, in the Adirondack Park near Wells, NY. Majoring in computer science, David was a senior at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, NY. David attended the Episcopal School and Trinity School in New York City. After three years at Brunswick School in Greenwich, CT, he attended Gould Academy in Bethel, Maine. He graduated high school from The Pomfret School in Pomfret, CT. David was an expert skier, and an avid photographer. He enjoyed all types of music and loved movies. Dave educated himself on topics such as artificial intelligence, economics, and politics by reading, research, and debate. He was an ardent Apple Computer proponent. His favorite author was Noam Chomsky. He is survived by his parents, Ann and David A. Wilson, Jr. of New Canaan, CT, his sister, Elizabeth R. Wilson of New York City, maternal grandparents Lt. Col. George W. Gaumond, USAF (retired), and Madeline R. Gaumond of Bradenton, FL, and paternal grandfather David A. Wilson of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. A memorial service will be held at the First Presbyterian Church in New Canaan on September 30th at 3 p.m. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to: American Civil Liberties Union (www. aclu.org) or Heifer International (www.heifer.org). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (82%); HEIFER INTERNATIONAL (82%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



584 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Do Not Open Before the Presidential Election

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
Among the proposed rules that have been postponed until after Election Day are:

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE -- A proposal made by William H. Donaldson, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to give shareholders a say in removing the directors of troubled companies.
 Mr. Donaldson embraced an agency report on the issue in the summer of 2003 and vowed to adopt new rules quickly. But the commission and the administration were lobbied heavily by the Business Roundtable, an organization of the chief executives of the nation's largest companies, and Mr. Donaldson has wavered. Agency officials now say there is virtually no chance they will complete the rules before the election.
 Mr. Donaldson has been pressed to abandon the proposal by some administration officials, including Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, a former chairman of the Business Roundtable, who was critical of earlier versions of the proposal.

TELECOMMUNICATIONS -- New regulations governing wholesale telephone rates and a set of rules controlling how large big media conglomerates can grow.
 Federal appeals courts struck down both sets of Federal Communications Commission regulations this year; the commission's response to those decisions is timed to come after the election. 
 The nation's largest telephone companies agreed not to raise rates before next year at the same time that the Bush administration agreed not to appeal a court decision that had rejected rules requiring them to lease their equipment to rivals at low rates.

LAND DEVELOPMENT -- A proposal to scuttle a rule from the Clinton administration that put nearly 60 million acres of national forest largely off limits to logging, mining or other development.
 The Bush administration recently extended until Nov. 14 the comment period for the proposal, which had been scheduled to end this month. Completion of a second proposal, to make it easier to develop forests without considering the environmental impact, has also been delayed.

FOOD SAFETY -- A proposal by the Food and Drug Administration, after a case of mad cow disease was reported in Washington State, to tighten rules governing the content of animal feed.
 Part of the proposal was delayed after heavy lobbying from the beef and cattle feed industries. A few weeks after the administration announced in July that it would slow the regulatory process, the beef association broke its nonpartisan tradition by issuing an endorsement for the re-election of President Bush. STEPHEN LABATON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); LIVESTOCK FEED (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); BEEF (67%); APPEALS (67%); FOOD SAFETY (67%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (66%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (66%); MAMMALS (66%); MEATS (66%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (62%); ANIMAL FOODS (62%) United States Economy; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Election Issues; Environment; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Accounting and Accountants; Executives and Management; Telephones and Telecommunications

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



585 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: People

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Ellen Johnson, chief financial officer at the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, was promoted to senior vice president and treasurer at Interpublic. 
She succeeds Steven Burns, who left in August to become vice chairman and executive vice president at MDC Partners. 
 Shane Ankeney, executive vice president and executive media director at Doner, Southfield, Mich., was promoted to chief media officer, succeeding Fred Sattler, who is leaving to join the Troy, Mich., office of PHD, part of the Omnicom Group, as executive vice president and general manager.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Interpublic Group of Cos; Doner (Ad Agency)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (88%) Stuart Elliott; Ellen Johnson; steven burns; Shane Ankeney; fred sattler

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



586 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Crowds Would Like More on Kitchen-Table Issues

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Sept 24 

 BODY:
For Vice President Dick Cheney's weeklong campaign swing, little was left to chance. Or so it seemed.
 Campaign advance workers for each of the rallies and town hall or round-table discussions chose every participant, combing lists of Republican activists and donors. 
 But these advance workers could not control what Mr. Cheney said or predict that his dark message would be out of sync with what many in his ardently supportive audience wanted to hear: his stand on domestic social issues. 
 Mr. Cheney, in unscripted remarks that began several of the events, was bleak, the harbinger of a future dominated by terrorist threats.
 One observation, made in one form or another at every event, warned of a possible cataclysm. 
 ''The biggest threat we face today,'' he said in Pennsylvania, ''is that one of these terror cells is organizing in the middle of one of our cities with a nuclear weapon, and the prospect that the next time they launch an attack against the U.S. it won't be just a few thousand lives. It may be a few hundred thousand.''
 The point, not specifically stated until later, was that President Bush was better able to deal with that and related threats than his challenger, Senator John Kerry. A campaign aide said that was the campaign's focus for the week. 
 The vice president's traditional role in any campaign is usually to attack the opponents on behalf of the president, but that is a task that conflicts to some degree with the expectations of many who came to Mr. Cheney's events.
 When several chosen supporters at each of the events were asked before Mr. Cheney arrived what they wanted him to talk about, the usual responses were jobs, health care, education and other domestic concerns. Only two people in this decidedly unscientific sampling of about a dozen people in three cities said they wanted to hear about Iraq.
 ''Jobs going overseas,'' said Dennis Baltz, an industrial plant inspector waiting to see Mr. Cheney speak in Cornwall, Pa., on Monday.
 ''How we can provide health care for our people,'' said Alfonso Salas, a small-business owner in Lansing, Mich., who was waiting to participate in a round-table discussion with Mr. Cheney on Tuesday.
 ''Social Security,'' said John Horiszny, a retired veteran, also at the Lansing event.
 ''The economy and job growth,'' said Richard Rau, a loan company employee attending a rally in St. Joseph, Mo., on Thursday.
 At town hall and round-table discussions, every word of Mr. Cheney's remarks was dedicated to terrorism and the Iraq war. At the rallies, where Mr. Cheney delivered his stump speech, he did bring up domestic policy -- six minutes of his usual 28-minute speech in St. Joseph were used to discuss the Republicans' domestic platform. 
 Among the usual statements during his discussions of Iraq was the assertion that Saddam Hussein's regime ''had a relationship with Al Qaeda,'' as he put it in Lansing. In its report last summer, the 9/11 commission said it found ''no credible evidence that Iraq and Al Qaeda cooperated on attacks against the United States.'' The Senate Intelligence Committee has reached similar conclusions.
 Even after remarks wholly dedicated to foreign policy, the vast majority of questions from members of the audience -- all of them unerringly polite and deferential -- dealt with domestic or economic issues, not wars or terrorism.
 Some of his supporters found this apparent disconnect unsurprising, including Harriet Faren, president of the Lebanon Valley, Pa., chamber of commerce. Ms. Faren is a Republican who spoke in advance of Mr. Cheney's appearance at PRL Industries Inc., a small defense contractor in Cornwall, Pa. Afterward, while saying that unemployment in the county was 2.9 percent in 2000 and remained at 3.7 percent now, Ms. Faren said: ''It's not surprising that the vice president spoke about terrorism. It seems to have become the real issue in the campaign now.''
 Patricia Herschkowitz, an executive with PRL, said her workers were ''aglow'' after the event. ''We were extremely pleased and proud to be chosen for this event,'' Ms. Herschkowitz said. But on reflection, she added, referring to domestic concerns, ''It does seem that some of these issues could have been reflected better.''
 In Missouri, Mr. Rau said he was unhappy with Mr. Cheney's brief discussion of the economy in his stump speech. ''No, he didn't talk about it as much as I would like,'' he said. ''As a whole, I was not satisfied.'' Nonetheless, neither he nor any of the other supporters interviewed said they might vote for Mr. Kerry. 
 The Kerry campaign was less restrained. In a news release referring to the vice president's appearance in Cornwall, it said: ''We're certain Mr. Cheney will steer clear of these troubling facts: Last Friday the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that Pennsylvania lost another 1,200 manufacturing jobs in August. Since George Bush took office, 74,800 jobs have been lost in Pennsylvania.''
 Anne Womack, spokesman for Mr. Cheney's campaign, said that Mr. Cheney's off-the-cuff remarks had been broader in previous weeks, ''but the war on terror is the central issue in this campaign now.'' 
 In Lansing, Mr. Salas, who owns a sporting goods store, said he was pleased that Mr. Cheney told him in answer to his question, ''Small businesses are to some extent the backbone of our economy.''
 But Mr. Salas, who describes himself as a strong Bush supporter, was dissatisfied with Mr. Cheney's response to his question about ever-rising health costs.
 Mr. Cheney responded, as he always does, by citing four medical issues. He trumpeted the new Medicare prescription-drug law. He called for the medical-malpractice law that the Senate has refused to pass. He promoted a tax break that would encourage businesses to add $500 to employees' health savings accounts. And he talked up another proposal that would allow small businesses to cooperate so they can buy employee health insurance at a lower cost. 
 After Mr. Cheney left, Mr. Salas shook his head.
 ''I don't think he answered that question completely,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, during a campaign stop last week at PRL Industries, a defense contractor in Cornwall, Pa. (Photo by Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Joel Brinkley; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



587 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Postpone Issuing New Rules As Election Nears

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
After a case of mad cow disease surfaced in Washington State late last year, federal regulators vowed to move swiftly to adopt rules to reduce the risks of further problems and restore confidence in the nation's meat industry.
 Some rules were adopted this year. But a few weeks ago, the Food and Drug Administration, after heavy lobbying from the beef and feed industries, took steps to delay -- and to the concern of food safety groups, possibly kill -- completion of the most controversial and perhaps most expensive proposal for cattle companies. 
 That proposal would sharply restrict what could be included in animal feed. Shortly after the administration slowed its consideration of the rule, the National Cattlemen's Beef Association broke its nonpartisan tradition and endorsed President Bush for re-election. 
 The F.D.A. decision was part of a broader pattern. 
 In recent weeks, federal agencies across the vast Washington bureaucracy have delayed completion of a range of proposed regulations from food safety and the environment to corporate governance and telecommunications policy until after Election Day, when regulatory action may be more politically palatable.
 The delays come after heavy lobbying by industry organizations, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the cattle and feed industries, the four regional Bell operating telephone companies, big health care providers and timber and mining interests. 
 Some groups have been making their case for regulations that would make it easier for miners and timber companies to develop forests, while others have been advocating wholesale telephone rate rules that could significantly increase prices to consumers. Many corporate executives, meanwhile, have been arguing against a proposal that would give shareholders the ability to remove directors of troubled companies.
 Officials have decided to wait until after Election Day to respond to an appeals court decision that struck down rules that would make it easier for the largest media conglomerates to grow larger. And they are not expected to issue rules that will determine prescription rates and coverage under the new Medicare law until after the presidential election.
 Both industry lobbyists and their critics say that the re-election of President Bush would probably lead to the adoption of some regulations favorable to industry and the rejection or watering down of others that industry considers objectionable. Consumer groups, environmental organizations and food safety experts, meanwhile, say that delays could lead to significantly weaker rules that could increase prices on some products, reduce safety and relax environmental protections. 
 While the delay of completing rules, known to lobbyists and policy makers as ''slow rolling,'' is common in a campaign season, some environmental groups and consumer advocates say this year is different.
 ''Generally, regulatory submissions often get pushed off in election years,'' said Gene Kimmelman, a senior director of public policy at Consumers Union.
 ''What is unusual this time,'' he added, ''is the clear pattern of holding back regulatory decisions that will benefit the largest industry players and will drive up prices and market place risks for consumers, ranging from telephones to drugs to the risks of contaminants of food. The pattern of slow rolling will ultimately benefit the largest players and hit consumers in the pocketbook.''
 Administration officials have denied such consequences, although they acknowledge that they are generally inclined in each instance to take the least restrictive approach and that they have been sympathetic to the concerns of business interests. They also say that reducing regulations reduces costs to industry and, thus, leads to lower prices for consumers. The administration's critics say that although John Kerry, the Democratic nominee for president, has taken a different position on some of the regulations, electing him might not affect the outcome of some proposals because the Bush administration would have almost three months after Election Day to complete the rules.
 ''There could be a fire sale such as we've never seen post-election,'' said Marty Hayden, legislative director for Earthjustice, one of several environmental groups that is opposing a proposal to make it easier to build roads in millions of acres of forests. Last week, the administration announced that it was extending the comment period for the proposal so that the final regulation could not be adopted before Election Day.
 Slow rolling takes place before a presidential election because it is an axiom of political life that agencies take no action that could give an issue to the opponents of the incumbent administration. 
 After an election, by contrast, agency work often accelerates, particularly in anticipation of a change in administration. Indeed, nearly four years ago, the Bush administration -- in its first two hours in office -- imposed a brief regulatory moratorium to take stock of the proposals that had been rushed through agencies in the final days of the Clinton administration.
 While that rhythm to rule making is inevitable, some experts say that this year there are an unusually large number of controversial proposals, and that they reflect both the tightness in the polls and the strong industry ties to the White House. Those groups and others have prevailed upon policy makers to delay some decisions in the hopes of killing some proposals and relaxing some other rules after the election.
 Blair Levin, a telecommunications analyst at Legg Mason who was a senior official at the Federal Communications Commission in the Clinton administration, said that in telecommunications policy, he ''cannot recall a time when there were these many important things waiting to be acted on.''
 He said he expected that final rules on wholesale telephone rates, which will be completed after the election, would result in price increases in the range of 15 percent for existing customers, as well as price increases for new customers.
 Officials at several agencies said they had moved to reduce the profile of controversial rule makings as the presidential campaign moves into the home stretch.
 ''The president sets the focus right now,'' said Michael D. Gallagher, an assistant commerce secretary who heads the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. ''That's the way it should be, and it's not for us to get into old battles. The president should drive the message and we should be reinforcing that. Hopefully we'll be able to do that for the next 60 days. After that, there's a very full plate of issues to be addressed.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A proposed federal restriction on animal feed was delayed after lobbying from the beef industry. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BEEF (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); MEATS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (71%); TELEPHONE RATES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (65%); APPEALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) United States Economy; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Protection; United States Economy; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Executives and Management; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Telephones and Telecommunications; Environment

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (82%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (82%) United States Chamber of Commerce; Business Roundtable

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (70%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004



588 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Soar; Gain Is Largest in 4 Years

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of new homes jumped 9.4 percent in August, higher than economists had expected and the biggest gain since the end of 2000, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
 Single-family home sales increased to a 1.184 million annual pace last month, led by surging sales in the West and South, from a July rate of 1.082 million units, which was slower than first estimated.
 Economists had forecast sales at an annual rate of 1.155 million last month. 
 Sales of new homes increased in three of four regions. They rose 6.1 percent in the Northeast, to 70,000 at an annual rate; 13 percent in the South, to 536,000 at an annual rate; and 20 percent in the West, to 356,000 at an annual rate. Sales fell 8.3 percent in the Midwest, to a 222,000 pace.
 The median selling price in the United States dropped to $208,900 in August from $214,400 in July, reflecting a greater percentage of homes built for less than $125,000, the Commerce Department said. Prices are 9.7 percent higher than they were in August of last year.
 The inventory of new homes for sale dropped to a 4.2-month supply in August from 4.4 months, while the number of new homes for sale rose to 404,000, the highest since October 1979.
 The median number of months that new homes are on the market before being sold rose to 3.8 months from 3.7 months. 
 ''We're starting to see signs that we're close to the top of the housing market,'' said Wesley M. Beal, an economist at the financial research firm IDEAglobal in New York, before the report. ''New-home prices are starting to moderate and it's taking longer to sell them.''
 New-home sales, which account for about 15 percent of the United States housing market, are a leading indicator of demand because they are recorded when a contract is written. Existing-home sales, which account for the rest, are tabulated at the contract closing, often one or two months after the contract is signed.
 In August, home resales fell 2.7 percent, to a 6.54 million pace, the National Association of Realtors said late last week. Applications to buy a home rose 1.6 percent in August from July, the Mortgage Bankers Association said.
 Borrowing costs fell in August even as the Federal Reserve raised the nation's benchmark lending rate. The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage was 5.87 percent in August, the lowest since March, according to Freddie Mac, a buyer of mortgages. The rate reached a record low of 5.21 percent last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (96%); REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (63%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



589 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 276 words

PERSON: Eli Elias

HEADLINE: Eli Elias, 92, Clothing Maker And Garment Industry Leader

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
Eli Elias, a clothing manufacturer and leader of the New York City garment industry, died on Friday in Hollywood, Fla. He was 92. 
 The cause was a stroke, his grandson, Dan, said.
 As president and executive director of the New York Skirt and Sportswear Association for several decades, until he was 86, Mr. Elias tried to steer the city's clothing manufacturers through wave after wave of competition from overseas.
 Mr. Elias was born in Rochester on Aug. 2, 1912, and studied drafting and machine designs in high school before moving to Manhattan in 1929 to work as a plant manager at his uncle's clothing factory. He became a partner at another manufacturing company, Maybro Sportswear, in 1931 but left in 1934 to open his own company, Elias Sportswear, which by 1946 employed 1,200 workers at its plant in Brooklyn. 
 In 1979 he transferred the company to his son Richard and became president of the New York Skirt and Sportswear Association.
 During his tenure, he organized the Federation of Apparel Manufacturersand the Garment Center Economic Security Council. He was vice chairman of the board of the Garment Industry Development Corporation and was on the boards of the Council for American Fashion, the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Institute of Technology and the High School of Fashion Industries in Manhattan.
 Mr. Elias was a founder of the Sephardic Temple of Cedarhurst, N.Y., and an honorary president of the United Sephardim of Brooklyn. He helped start the Sephardic Home for the Aged in Brooklyn. 
 He is survived by his wife, Sara; three children, Roslyn Hazan, Allan and Richard; 9 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (96%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Fashion Design

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



590 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Rises Seen in Florida Insurance Premiums

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
As Florida was cleaning up yesterday from its fourth hurricane in six weeks, insurance executives and analysts said they expected the cost of coverage to rise sharply for millions of homes and businesses in the state.
 With the industry expecting to have to pay roughly $20 billion in claims from the storms, the analysts and executives said premiums could jump 15 percent to 30 percent when policies are renewed, compared with an average of perhaps 3 percent for the rest of the country. 
 ''The insurance companies have got to take price increases where they have losses,'' said Christopher Winans, an analyst for Lehman Brothers. ''So there's no doubt about it, if you want to live in Florida you're going to have to pay higher premiums. The companies have got to replenish lost capital.'' 
 Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, estimates that the industry will probably receive two million claims from the four storms, including Hurricane Jeanne, which hit over the weekend. Some analysts say the total damage could be more than $50 billion.
 Some damage will be covered by federal flood insurance, but for many of the losses there is simply no insurance, placing a burden on homeowners and the state's economy. But Florida, a pivotal state in this year's election, is expected to receive abundant federal assistance. 
 ''People will definitely feel'' the price increases, Mr. Winans said, but he and others said the jolt would be far less than that from Hurricane Andrew, which set a record for insured losses in Florida 12 years ago. In today's dollars those losses were about equivalent to the $20 billion racked up by the latest four storms. 
 ''After Hurricane Andrew rates went up 100 percent statewide and 300 percent in Southeast Florida,'' said Sam Miller, the executive vice president of the Florida Insurance Council, a trade group in Tallahassee. ''There will be increases. But you're not going to see the massive rate increases that we had after Hurricane Andrew.''
 The increases for more than six million homes and businesses will have to be negotiated with state regulators, and the industry executives said the amounts would probably be apportioned along the unusual paths of the storms. 
 Until now the insurance companies and weather experts had expected the heaviest damage from any storm to be in Southeast Florida -- places like the Florida Keys, Miami and Fort Lauderdale. And insurance rates for those areas were raised the most in the past. 
 But the latest hurricanes inflicted more damage on Southwest and Central Florida as well as the Panhandle, including Pensacola. These areas will probably see the greatest price increases now, analysts said. 
 ''We may decide that we're not charging enough in southwestern Florida,'' Mr. Miller said, ''whereas we might think we're fine on the southeast coast.'' 
 Another result, Mr. Hartwig said, may be that insurers like Allstate and State Farm, the leaders in Florida, will decide that they will no longer provide hurricane coverage in the places hardest hit and may seek to shift responsibility to an insurance organization created by Florida to provide minimal coverage for hurricanes. 
 When the latest hurricanes struck Florida, most homes covered by the special organization, the Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, were along the coasts, many around Miami and Fort Lauderdale. 
 Part of the premium increase is expected to come in the form of an assessment of 5 percent to 10 percent on every home insurance policyholder in the state by the Citizens Property Insurance Corporation. Susanne K. Murphy, the corporate counsel for Citizens, said in an interview that she did not know whether an assessment would be necessary. 
 At the end of June, however, Citizens had $1.1 billion in cash available to pay claims, Mr. Hartwig said. Ms. Murphy said Citizens was facing estimated claims of $1.29 billion from the first three hurricanes and had no estimate of costs for the fourth.
 Mr. Hartwig said, ''I think it's fairly certain that Citizens will need to institute an assessment.'' 
 In addition to raising prices after Hurricane Andrew, the insurance companies were able to get approval from regulators for deductibles as high as 2 percent to 5 percent for hurricane damage. They also benefited from being able to shed coverage in the riskiest areas and from the creation of a state catastrophe fund that pays 90 percent of an insurer's losses after costs to the industry for a hurricane have exceeded $4.5 billion. 
 That $4.5 billion has become, in effect, the industry's hurricane deductible. But it was designed with a $20 billion hurricane like Andrew in mind in the hope that the bulk of the losses would be borne by the catastrophe fund. For each hurricane, however, there is a new deductible. 
 This year, the insurers are facing four deductibles, which could run to $18 billion or so, giving them much higher losses than anticipated and partly explaining why significant price increases are almost a certainty for Florida homeowners.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Oscar Rodriguez, right, and fellow members of an Allstate team process insurance claims in Foley, Ala. Allstate and other insurers are assessing claims from Hurricane Ivan, which hit Florida and Alabama. (Photo by David Rae Morris/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Andrew (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Charley (Storm); Bonnie (Storm); Ivan (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Jeanne (Storm)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (83%) Insurance Information Institute

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster; Robert P Hartwig

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (73%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



591 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Leader Shuffles Cabinet to Push Economic Reforms

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO Sept. 27 

 BODY:
With Japan's banking crisis coming under control, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi shifted his economic repairman on Monday to Japan's next gargantuan task: privatizing the world's largest bank.
 In the first cabinet shuffle in a year, Mr. Koizumi gave Heizo Takenaka the job of postal reform minister, a position newly created to oversee the breakup and sale of Japan Post. In addition to handling mail delivery, the postal bank has become a savings and insurance leviathan with $3.1 trillion in assets. 
 In other shifts, Mr. Koizumi picked new ministers of foreign affairs and defense, two portfolios of great interest to the United States. Japan has 500 troops in Iraq, and both countries work closely on trying to contain the nuclear and missile threat from North Korea.
 But, with Japan, the world's second largest economy, in a tentative recovery, many analysts were relieved to see a strong continuity for the economic team. Mr. Takenaka, the economic pillar of Mr. Koizumi's cabinets since April 2001, will remain economy minister, a post involved with macroeconomics.
 Nobutaka Machimura, a member of Parliament and a former education minister, is the new foreign minister, replacing Yoriko Kawaguchi. Ms. Kawaguchi, who is not a member of Parliament, had been criticized for lacking political clout. Mr. Machimura worked in New York for three years for the Japan External Trade Organization. Yoshinori Ohno, a member of Parliament with experience in education, finance and communications, is to succeed Shigeru Ishiba as director general of the Defense Agency. 
 To continue the struggle to clean up Japanese banking, Mr. Takenaka's job as financial services minister is passing to his 43-year-old deputy, Tatsuya Ito. The two men are credited with bringing the bad loan problem down to manageable levels.
 When Mr. Takenaka, a former economics professor, took over as financial services minister, he asked Japan's top seven banks to cut their bad loans in half by March 2005. Recently, the Japanese Bankers Association said that goal might be met six months ahead of schedule. Ensuring continuity in another area, Sadakazu Tanigaki kept his post as finance minister.
 ''Now we expect that the postal reform bills will be submitted next year,'' Prime Minister Koizumi vowed in a speech on Monday night. ''This cabinet reshuffle was conducted for this purpose.'' 
 Mr. Takenaka, 53, said at a news conference on Monday, ''My role is to put the enthusiasm of Prime Minister Koizumi into actual form.''
 Mr. Koizumi has written books on the need to privatize the postal bank, which has long served as a hidden slush fund, helping his Liberal Democratic Party by financing public works projects with little economic justification. Facing opposition to privatization from his own party, he made loyalty to postal privatization a prerequisite for winning a post in the cabinet shuffle.
 He also proposed dividing the state post office into four private companies. This legislation is to be submitted to Parliament at the next regular session, in January.
 Approval ratings for Mr. Koizumi, in power for three and a half years, are languishing around 40 percent. In upper house elections last July, the Democratic Party of Japan, a newly revitalized opposition party, won more votes than the governing party. 
 ''Koizumi has a strong opposition party that he can use to threaten the L.D.P.,'' Robert A. Feldman, chief economist for Morgan Stanley Japan, said Monday of change-resistant members of his party in Parliament.
 To bring free market change to another area, Mr. Koizumi seemed to reshuffle his cabinet in a way to speed up talks on free trade pacts. With Agriculture Ministry bureaucrats historically trying to block those pacts, Yoshinobu Shimamura, an outspoken member of Parliament from Tokyo, was appointed agriculture minister. He has held the post before. Shoichi Nakagawa, a former agriculture minister who successfully oversaw the negotiation of the free trade pact signed earlier this month with Mexico, was retained as trade minister.
 Similarly, Mr. Koizumi drew on politicians with experience in agriculture and trade to run his party, which has traditionally had strong rural backing. He recruited a former farm minister, Tsutomu Takebe, as the party's secretary general, a No.2 post that includes handling election strategy. Kaoru Yosano, a former trade minister, was selected as the party's policy council chief.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, above, with his new cabinet. Heizo Takenaka, below, the economy minister, will now also be in charge of postal reform and overseeing the sale of the postal bank. (Photo by Yoshikazu Tsuno/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
 (Photo by Diane Bondareff/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Postal Service

ORGANIZATION: JAPAN EXTERNAL TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: James Brooke; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; Heizo (Min) Takenaka

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



592 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Privacy and Amusements Meant to Go a Long Way

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
What is it like to be stuck in an airplane cabin for 14 hours?
 Well, when you can enjoy your privacy in an enclosed compartment, flip through 500 channels of movies, music and TV, lean back in your leather chair for an electronic massage, order a meal whenever you feel like it and bask in ''mood lighting'' -- twinkling lights resembling stars that go on when it is time to go to sleep -- it is not so bad.
 Then again, flights lasting 14 hours, 16 hours or 18 1/2 hours (the longest of the three super-long-haul flights from the United States to Asia and the Middle East that have been introduced in recent months) make for a lot of time in the air, and you risk going a little stir-crazy.
 In general, though, business travelers who take these flights say the frustrations of being cooped up are more than made up for by the time saved.
 In fact, it is the amount of time gained, not the amenities lavished on them, that lures most travelers into Airbus's new long-range A340's for nonstop flights to Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
 ''You can manage to sleep for most of it,'' George Vorkas, an executive for a toy company in New York, said of these long-range flights. He takes a Cathay Pacific Airways flight to Hong Kong from Kennedy International Airport once a month. The trip takes 16 hours 20 minutes and covers 8,400 miles. ''If you take a connecting flight, you have to get up in the middle of your sleep, get off the plane and get back on,'' he said.
 Singapore Airlines was the first to offer super-long-haul flights, introducing its daily flight to Singapore from Los Angeles (which covers 9,130 miles in 18 1/2 hours) in February, saving passengers an estimated two and a half hours.
 In June it started a daily 18-hour flight (9,800 miles) to Singapore from Newark Liberty International Airport, cutting as much as four hours off the old itinerary. Singapore Airlines says the new services are among its top-selling flights in North America.
 And Emirates, which previously did not fly between New York and Dubai, began its daily service from J.F.K. in July. 
 It says it has flown 33,400 passengers on the route, which covers 6,900 miles and lasts 12 hours 50 minutes, as of early September, with ''extremely satisfactory'' load factors.
 Cathay started its daily nonstop flight to Hong Kong from Kennedy in July, shaving three hours off its old one-stop service. 
 The airline says the route is profitable, with load factors averaging 90 percent and ''well over'' 30,000 passengers carried so far.
 All three carriers realized they would have to go all-out to prevent travelers from succumbing to boredom or claustrophobia. Emirates created individual enclosed compartments for first-class seats and offers passengers an airborne equivalent of hotel room service for meals.
 Taking a different approach, Singapore reduced the number of seats on its aircraft and made them more spacious; designed to hold up to 313 passengers, the plane accommodates only 181. 
 In addition, Singapore and Emirates, both renowned for pampering passengers, increased the ratio of flight attendants to passengers.
 Here is a rundown of what each carrier offers:

Singapore Airlines
 The 117 economy-class seats on Singapore's A340-500 are three inches wider than economy-class seats in other aircraft, while their pitch, at 37 inches, is five inches greater. The economy-class TV screen, which is on the back of each seat, is 9.3 inches, compared with 6.5 inches on other aircraft. Because the fuselage is smaller than that of Singapore Airlines' other aircraft, the 64 business-class seats on the new plane are actually one inch narrower than others.
 In another first, both economy and business class have their own lounges, where travelers can help themselves to snacks, drinks and magazines. The plane also offers the newest version of the carrier's on-demand in-flight entertainment system, with 400 channels of movies, music, television programs and video games. Fares are 10 percent higher than they were on the previous one-stop service, but an airline spokesman says business travelers ''are not batting an eyelash because the time saved means a lot to them.''

Emirates
 Emirates, which says it also has plans to offer nonstop flights to San Francisco and other American cities, has three classes of service on its A340-500 flights serving Kennedy, with 12 passengers in first class, 42 in business class and 204 in economy. There are four flight attendants in both first and business class and six in economy.
 All three classes offer an entertainment system with 500 channels of film, music, TV programs and video games. The airline also offers Wi-Fi connections and e-mail for a fee, and at bedtime, sparkles the ceiling with its mood lighting. But perhaps its most noteworthy innovation is its first-class suite, a louvered compartment 5 feet 6 inches high and open on top, with an electronically controlled leather seat that massages its occupant. Each suite has a closet, vanity table, desk, bar, 19-inch TV screen and telephone that lets the passenger call colleagues on the plane or on the ground, or the flight attendant, who will serve meals on demand.

Cathay Pacific
 Its A340-600 aircraft accommodates 8 passengers in first class, served by 2 flight attendants; 60 in business class, with 6 flight attendants; and 218 in economy class, with 6 flight attendants. On 747-400 flights, which carry approximately 100 more passengers, the airline employs a cabin crew of 17.
 Cathay serves first-class passengers meals on demand and all three classes snacks on demand. Amenities available on the A340-600 that are also offered on other Cathay aircraft include a flat first-class bed; a 6-foot-3-inch business-class bed that inclines slightly; an on-demand entertainment system, and e-mail (for a fee).
 So what do business travelers have to say about all the bells and whistles? Not a whole lot; their focus is on time management. ''There was really a lot of value, time saved and the convenience of the flight,'' said Vincent Nesi, an apparel industry executive in Manhattan who switched to Cathay's new service last month instead of United Airlines and Northwest Airlines for his monthly flight to Hong Kong.
 Bill Macaulay, the chief executive of a private equity firm in Greenwich, Conn., who usually flies in first class on Singapore Airlines, said he missed first class when he took the carrier's new nonstop flight from Newark recently. And being in the air for 18 hours straight made him restless. 
 Even so, he is happy. ''The upside was the trip was quicker, there were no changes or delays or interruptions of the flight,'' he said.
 Dr. A.J. Hashmi, a cardiologist in Tampa, Fla., who sees many patients overseas, said he saved at least six hours flying to Dubai via New York over his old route, which had stops in Atlanta and London. Another advantage of a direct flight is a reduced likelihood of lost luggage, Dr. Hashmi said.
 Not all business travelers have been won over. One fund manager based in New York who tried out Cathay's nonstop flight to Hong Kong in July said he preferred the alternative flight, which stopped in Vancouver, British Columbia. ''The one-stop flight lets me work half a day and the 747-400 is for me more spacious than the A340,'' he said.
 Dr. Hashmi, who flew in first class with his wife, said he disliked being separated from her in the individual compartments on Emirates. And Marla Wax-Ferguson, a travel agent in New York who flew in business class, said her seat, operated by a remote control, did not recline properly.
 So is super-long-haul flying the wave of the future? Perhaps. After all, the Airbus A380 that will go on the market in 2006 will have a range of 9,200 miles and will accommodate 555 passengers in three classes. And Boeing's 7E7, which will begin flying in 2008 and hold anywhere from 217 to 289 passengers, will fly up to 9,800 miles.
 For now, though, industry experts see no rush by the industry into long-distance luxury. Singapore occupies a ''special high-end niche'' and Emirates serves a ''special premium market,'' said Glenn Engel, an airline analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''Others won't copy them because it will end up raising their costs. And in the airline business today, everyone is moving to lower costs, not higher costs.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Singapore Airlines has plans to fly Airbus A380's that are equipped with lounges. Emirates offers individual compartments in first class. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Airbus via Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR SERVICE (87%); TOYS & GAMES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (55%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Singapore Airlines; Emirates Airlines; Cathay Pacific Airways

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (55%); C6L (SGX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); SINGAPORE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (90%); MIDDLE EAST (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (71%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



593 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

TRANS-ATLANTIC FARE CUT -- Jack Foley, the executive vice president of Aer Lingus-North America, concedes that he speaks heresy, if not outright apostasy. Yesterday, figuring that it can lure away business travelers exasperated by trans-Atlantic round-trip fares of $6,000 and up for business class, Aer Lingus, the Irish airline, announced sharply reduced fares in both business class and economy. The fare structure has been simplified and the need eliminated for round-trip purchases and Saturday night stayovers to obtain the best fare. Fares in business class have been permanently cut by 50 percent or more, and those in economy reduced by 20 to 30 percent. ''The strategy is basically to say, the low-fare concept is coming to the Atlantic routes,'' Mr. Foley said yesterday. Some examples: Unrestricted nonstop one-way business-class fares between Los Angeles and Dublin are now $3,695, a 60 percent cut from previous fares. New York to Dublin is $1,504, a 43 percent reduction. Trans-Atlantic routes have long been plagued by high capacity and high fares. Aer Lingus uses seven Airbus A330's, with 24 business class seats in each, on about 47 round trips a week between the United States and Europe.

BIG GAINS, BIG LOSSES -- International passenger traffic increased 18.7 percent in the first eight months of 2004, compared with the same period last year, the International Air Transport Association said yesterday. ''More capacity is now entering all major markets,'' the trade group said in a statement. Its general director, Giovanni Bisignani, said, however, that with soaring oil prices eating up any gains, ''We expect that the airline industry will lose between $3 billion and $4 billion'' across the world this year.

OFF WITH YOUR COAT -- The Transportation Security Administration has announced new screening procedures that will expand the use of manual pat-downs of passengers and give screeners more latitude in deciding when to refer a passenger to the more invasive secondary-screening process. The agency said the moves were in line with recommendations in the 9/11 commission report that all passengers be checked more thoroughly for explosives. All passengers are now required to remove coats and jackets and place them on the conveyor belt. Policies on shoe removal have also been changed. At many airports, travelers say, everyone is now required to remove shoes and place them on the belt. Before, those who knew their shoes would not trigger the magnetometer were free to walk through with their shoes on.

BEST SHOWS IN THE AIR -- Among the world's commercial airlines, United Airlines, Virgin Atlantic and SriLankan Airlines have the best in-flight video and audio entertainment systems, according to an industry survey by the World Airline Entertainment Association, released at the group's annual trade show in Seattle last week. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); TERRORISM (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Terrorism; Profits (Industry-wide); Security and Warning Systems; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (90%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (82%); US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%) Aer Lingus; International Air Transport Assn; Transportation Security Administration

TICKER: AERL (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); IRELAND (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



594 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Teotihuacan Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: No, the Conquistadors Are Not Back. It's Just Wal-Mart.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN DE TEOTIHUACAN, Mexico, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The market in this small town is a warren of streets with canopied stalls and battered storefronts, where one can buy everything from fresh avocados to jeans to a vaquero's saddle. 
 As they have for centuries, the merchants here ply their trade midway between the ruins of giant pyramids built by the Maya and the stone steeple of the town's main Catholic church, which Spanish monks founded in 1548.
 Now another colossus from a different empire is being built in the shadow of the pyramids, a structure some merchants and other townsfolk here say threatens not only their businesses but their heritage. In December, an ugly cinderblock building rising from the earth is to house a sprawling supermarket called Bodega Aurrera, a subsidiary of Wal-Mart of Mexico. 
 ''What's next?'' said David Garcia, 27, whose family owns a dry-goods store in the market. ''It's like having Mickey Mouse on the top of the Pyramid of the Moon.''
 The 71,902-square-foot store with 236 parking places is about a mile from a gated park where tourists flock to some of Mexico's best-known ruins, a complex of pyramids and other structures built between the fifth and ninth centuries and later called by the Aztecs ''the place where men became gods.''
 How Wal-Mart got permission to build a superstore on farmland supposedly protected under Mexican law as an archaeological site has vexed the merchants here, who freely accuse the town, the state and the federal Institute of Anthropology and History of corruption.
 The opponents charge Wal-Mart with trampling on their Indian heritage and suggest that the backhoes clawing at the earth on the site are destroying irreplaceable relics.
 But an economic reality underlies this dispute -- Wal-Mart has not only built stores throughout Mexico, but has taken over several other chains. It is the largest private employer in the country, and wherever this American retail titan erects a new outlet, the local merchants tend to disappear, or at least lose business.
 ''It's a crime,'' said Irma Gonzalez Rodriguez, 40, who sells chickens in the market. ''They say they will bring 200 jobs. How many people are you going to leave without jobs for those 200?
 ''The ruins and us go together. We are part of this culture. They will leave us without work, without anything.''
 Nonsense, say state and local officials, who approved the project, as they do most things, without any public hearings. Mayor Guillermo Rodriguez Cespedes said there were no more than 20 opponents, people who were afraid of losing business. He points out that Wal-Mart is promising to bring 180 jobs to a town struggling with unemployment. He angrily denounced the grumbling about corruption at City Hall as lies.
 Archaeologists at the federal institute also defend their decision to let the project go ahead. True, a small pre-Hispanic altar of clay and stone was discovered under what will be an expansive parking lot, along with a few other artifacts, said Sanchez Nava, an official with the institute. 
 But most of the artifacts have already been recovered from the area where the supermarket is being built. Besides, he said, teams of archaeologists from the institute are at the site each day, watching over the work. ''I don't feel there is a risk,'' he said.
 Opponents say the government is misleading people. They say they have found what look like pottery shards, arrows and other relics in the earth excavated from the construction site. They point out that Maribel Miro Flaquer, who approved the project for the institute, resigned shortly afterward. Her successor, Raul Javier Cordoba Garcia, died of unknown causes after only a week in office.
 All this has fed the rumor mill on the town's streets, talk of corruption and murder, charges officials call pure fiction. Some compare Wal-Mart's invasion of the pyramid area to the Spanish conquest.
 Ever since Wal-Mart entered the retail market by taking over Cifra, a Mexican retailer, in 1991, it has gobbled up a greater and greater share of consumer spending. It now owns more than 650 department stores, restaurants and supermarkets in six chains. It rakes in revenues of more than $11 billion a year, greater than the other top three discount retailers combined. In February, it announced plans to open 77 new stores this year and next.
 Raul Arguelles, a spokesman for Wal-Mart of Mexico, says the company's only motive for building a store here is to bring lower prices for basic goods to consumers. People here now have to trek 30 miles to the nearest hypermarket, he points out, and pay higher prices in the old-fashioned market. He characterized the protesters, who on one occasion threatened the site with sticks and machetes, as a handful of malcontents. ''The community wants the store,'' he said. 
 But the opponents have been joined by some intellectuals, like the poet Homero Aridjis, who in early September intoned that building a shopping center in sight of the pyramids amounted to ''driving the stake of globalization into the heart of Mexican antiquity.''
 Emmanuel D'Herrera, a schoolteacher and former diplomat who lives near the pyramids, said the federal archaeologists relied on surveys to give their approval. He said the construction crews started digging three weeks before government archaeologists arrived, a charge that could not be verified.
 ''We see an awful corruption all around that stinks, from INAH to the mayor's office,'' said Mr. D'Herrera, using the acronym for the archaeological institute. ''We want to preserve our heritage. It's not a common piece of land.''
 Others here are more pragmatic. Francisco Briseno has sold cheese, ham, soap, bridles, saddles and other necessities from his tiny shop in the market for 40 years. He does not care much about ancient history. Asked what would happen when the big store opened, he shrugged and said everyone else would lose some business. Still, he has faith in his clientele.
 ''I don't think they are going to abandon me,'' he said, smiling broadly, as if to say nothing ever really changes here, even when it does.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about opposition to plans by Wal-Mart's Mexico subsidiary to build a large supermarket near the ancient pyramid ruins of Teotihuacan, near Mexico City, referred incorrectly to their origin. While some research suggests a Mayan influence on their architecture, the ethnicity of the builders remains unknown.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A pyramid at the archaeological site 18 miles from Mexico City. A Wal-Mart subsidiary is building a gigantic store near the ancient ruins of Teotihuacan, and a small group is fighting a battle for what it calls Mexico's landscape and culture. (Photo by Marco Ugarte/Associated Press, 2003)
 In early September, construction workers were laying in tin roofing for the sprawling store. The Pyramid of the Sun is in the background. (Photo by Henry Romero/Reuters)Map of Mexico highlighting San Juan de Teotihuacan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); ETHICS (69%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); APPROVALS (64%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%) Historic Buildings and Sites; Mayans; Food; Supermarkets; Ethics; Archaeology and Anthropology; Institue of Anthropology and History (Mexico); Land Use Policies; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico; San Juan de Teothihuacan (Mex); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



595 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Oil Nears $50 As Gulf Storms Curtail Output

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices rose to another record yesterday but remained just below the $50-a-barrel mark, as traders expressed concern that recent hurricanes had hurt output in the United States at a time commercial supplies remained low.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil for November delivery settled at $49.64 a barrel, up 76 cents, after touching $49.74 earlier in the session, the highest level since crude oil began trading on the exchange in 1983. The price rose above $50 a barrel in electronic trading after hours.
 The market's volatility also seemed to reflect the possibility of new clashes in Nigeria between the army and a regional group of militants, threatening output and even-higher crude oil prices. A statement from the rebels late yesterday warned of an ''all-out war on the Nigerian state'' starting Friday and advised oil companies to shut down production by then, a Reuters report from Lagos, Nigeria, said. 
 Oil futures prices have risen sharply this year as traders worried about interruptions in supplies at a time there is little spare capacity. Commercial oil inventories in the United States are close to a 29-year low while members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are producing near their capacity.
 Analysts say that worldwide demand is running around 82 million barrels a day and that the untapped spare capacity is about one million barrels. Negative news from exporters or potential exporters like Russia and Iraq has helped push prices higher in recent months.
 In New York yesterday afternoon, leading stock indexes dropped as oil prices climbed. Shares of oil companies rose. 
 In Washington, the Energy Department reported a 5.1-cent increase last week in retail gasoline prices, to $1.917 a gallon on average nationwide for regular unleaded gas. 
 The increase in crude oil prices came amid word from the federal Minerals Management Service that one-third of daily production in the Gulf of Mexico is still being disrupted from the effects of Hurricane Ivan, which struck the Florida Panhandle and other gulf points a week and a half ago. The gulf region accounts for a quarter of the United States' domestic output. Since Sept. 13, the cumulative loss of production from the region has been 11.3 million barrels, or about 1.9 percent of the yearly output there, the Minerals Management Service, an Interior Department agency, said.
 Thomas Bentz, a senior energy analyst with BNP Paribas in New York, commented that ''with low stocks and OPEC producing at full capacity, we currently can't afford to have any disruptions anywhere.'' 
 ''And we're only halfway through the hurricane season,'' Mr. Bentz said. 
 With the passage of Hurricane Jeanne over the weekend, Florida and the Caribbean have had a record four hurricanes in six weeks -- Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne -- causing widespread devastation and more than 1,500 deaths, the greatest number of those drowning victims in Haiti in the most recent storm.
 Oil traders and companies, meanwhile, monitored the news from Nigeria, an OPEC nation that produces 2.4 million barrels a day. Government forces there have clashed over the years with groups seeking greater access to the country's resource wealth.
 A spokesman for Royal Dutch/Shell, Andy Corrigan, said in London that Shell had evacuated 235 nonessential workers from the Port Harcourt region of Nigeria on Friday because of a ''tense security situation.'' He said output had not been affected. Shell produces about 900,000 barrels a day in Nigeria, Africa's most populous country.
 Deborah White, an economist at Societe Generale in Paris, said tension between the government and trade unions could lead to production stoppages. ''People on the markets are basically freaking out at what's going on in Nigeria,'' she said.
 The statement from Nigeria late yesterday was issued in the name of the Niger Delta People's Volunteer Force, a little-known group with apparent links to the Ijaw ethnic group. It urged all foreigners to leave the Niger delta, according to the Reuters report. Mujahid Dokubo Asari, identified as the group's leader, said rebel forces would not take responsibility for harm to foreign nationals and he advised embassies and oil companies to withdraw their people.
 ''That means they have to close their facilities,'' he said, as quoted by Reuters. ''Anyone who assists the Nigerian state'' in making money in the region, he added, ''will be seen as a collaborator and an enemy and will be targeted.''
 Because oil companies have been drawing on their inventories to make up for lost production, the inventories have fallen for eight weeks to the lowest level since February.
 The drawdown means that the companies may have less crude oil to refine into heating fuel for the period of peak demand this winter.
 At the same time, OPEC nations have been producing about 30 million barrels a day, their highest level in 25 years.
 Most of OPEC's 11 members are producing at capacity. Only Saudi Arabia, which pumps 9.5 million barrels a day, can increase daily production, by perhaps a further 1 million to 1.5 million barrels.
 With not much more that OPEC countries can do to help ease prices, many analysts now expect oil prices to go above $50 a barrel before the end of the week.
 ''There are no signs of a peak on the market,'' Mr. Bentz of BNP Paribas said. ''$50 a barrel is a big psychological number, but there's nothing on the charts saying $50 is a peak.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); CIVIL WAR (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Production; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (51%); BNP (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); IRAQ (79%) Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



596 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Presbyterians and Jews to Meet on Mideast

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
Leaders of the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. and the country's largest Jewish groups are meeting in New York today to discuss a rift touched off by resolutions that the church adopted this summer regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, most notably one that calls for selective divestment in companies doing business in Israel and the occupied territories.
 Protestant leaders believe that no other churches in the United States have taken such a step. But others may be considering similarly stringent measures, according to a Presbyterian spokesman and representatives of other mainline Protestant churches. 
 ''There have been some expressions of interest for finding out more about what we've done,'' said Jay Rock, coordinator for interfaith relations at the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. ''Some of the American Protestant churches have talked to us about this and indicated that they may be beginning to consider doing the same.'' 
 The possibility that the Presbyterian decisions could inspire others is among the gravest threats that Jewish leaders see, coming at a time, they contend, when Israel has become more isolated internationally. ''When they ask me what I'm concerned about, part of it is that it will be creating a momentum that will not be good for anybody,'' said Rabbi Jerome Epstein, chief executive officer of United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism, an association of about 800 congregations nationwide.
 The controversy stems from policy statements that the Presbyterian Church U.S.A.'s general assembly passed at its biennial meeting in June and July in Richmond, Va. One called for Israel to halt construction of its security barrier in the West Bank. Another authorized the church's investment committee to initiate possible divestment in companies ''whose business in Israel is found to be directly or indirectly causing harm or suffering to innocent people, Palestinian or Israeli,'' according to a statement July 20 by Clifton Kirkpatrick, stated clerk of the church's assembly. 
 A third resolution, while not related to Israel, upset Jews because it continued the national church's financial support for a church in Philadelphia, Avodat Yisrael, that Jewish leaders say evangelizes among Jews under false pretenses. 
 Other Protestant churches have condemned the security barrier at their national conferences over the last two years. And there has been friction with the Presbyterians and others over Israeli policy in the past, said Rabbi Eric Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism. Moreover, while the church has about $7 billion in investments, Rabbi Yoffie said he did not think the amount affected by the divestment moves would be significant. 
 But Jewish leaders say they were stunned by what they saw as the one-sided language and focus of the resolutions, particularly the fact that only Israel was singled out for economic sanctions. 
 ''Our people were deeply appalled by the message,'' Rabbi Yoffie said. ''And I've heard from the local level that Presbyterians, regardless of where they fall on these issues, were surprised by the intensity of the Jewish reaction. It's an example of the fact that we didn't know each other as well as we thought we did, or should have.'' 
 The Presbyterian decision to explore divestment may be the starkest example so far of the frustration among many Protestants with the crumbling of peace efforts, a fact worsened, they believe, by Israel's decision to build the barrier in the West Bank, Protestant leaders said. In fact, interfaith dialogue between Jews and American Protestants has waned over the last few years, in great part because of tension over Israel's policies, said Dr. Antonios Kireopoulos, assistant general secretary for international affairs at the National Council of Churches, an umbrella group for 36 churches.
 The mainline Protestant churches have close ties to Arab Christians in Israel, and those links clearly shape their perception of who bears greater responsibility for the conflict and what would be the best route to peace, Protestant leaders and scholars said. There is an assumption among many moderate and liberal Christians that ''Israel is the government in power, so it has more control over the situation,'' said Ben Witherington, a professor of New Testament at Asbury Theological Seminary in Wilmore, Ky. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); RELIGION (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%) Palestinians; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: Presbyterian Church Usa

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



597 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; SOCCER REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: The U.S. Coach Sounds Off

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
From his perch near the top of the soccer food chain in the United States, Bruce Arena, the men's national team coach, would probably accept efficiency over elegance. 
 The United States team has played in the last four World Cups and resumes play in the regional semifinal qualifying round on Oct. 9 in El Salvador, but Arena, the man who guided and cajoled the team to the quarterfinals in South Korea at the 2002 World Cup, is critical of Major League Soccer and the United States soccer federation.
 ''For the league to play games during World Cup qualifying is insane,'' Arena said yesterday in a telephone interview. ''It shows a lack of respect for the national team.'' 
 FIFA, the sport's governing body, recently instituted a system that sets aside dates for worldwide qualifying matches. A majority of leagues around the world, but not M.L.S., suspends matches for up to two weeks. The MetroStars, for example, will play an important late-season game against Columbus on Oct. 9 and could be missing some important players (Jonny Walker, Eddie Gaven and Eddie Pope of the United States; Fabian Taylor and Craig Ziadie of Jamaica; Amado Guevara of Honduras; and Cornell Glen of Trinidad and Tobago).
 ''Ideally, the league should synchronize its schedule with the rest of the world,'' Arena said. ''Next week after I announce my roster, the clubs will complain to me again about calling up their players. We are fighting for our lives in qualifying and they're worried about making the playoffs. People are pulling in opposite directions. Every coach, and I can't blame them, is trying to be successful. And they will call me, every coach. The decision to play games during qualifying is their problem.''
 Arena addressed several other issues involving M.L.S. and the national team program.

MEANINGFUL GAMES IN M.L.S. -- ''Most of the regular-season games mean nothing. The players are not motivated, and in reality the games don't mean a lot until the last month of the season. And players only get better when they play real games all the time. The league needs to think about a bonus system, going to a single table and reducing the number of teams in the playoffs. It's 8 of 10 teams now and I know the league is going to 12 teams, but four in the playoffs would make more sense.''

ALL-STAR GAME -- ''A complete waste of time.''

U.S. OPEN CUP -- ''Debatable it makes any sense'' for M.L.S. teams to participate.

RESERVE TEAMS -- ''It would be a positive thing for young players, but I realize it is a matter of economics. They would have better opportunities to develop, and by getting reserve games, these players would be ready if there were injuries or national team call-ups.''

EXPECTATIONS OF U.S. WINNING THE WORLD CUP -- ''That's the problem. That's the way people think. It's a product of the environment we live in, that the sporting world is centered around sports we have invented, winning championships and calling ourselves world champions. We actually believe this, and it's pretty comical. There are only a few global sports: soccer, basketball, tennis and golf. Look at how we do. We can't compete in the Ryder Cup, although we think we are the best golfers in the world. We were sixth in the basketball world championships played in our own country and third in the Olympics.
 ''People have got to realize that the World Cup is the most challenging sporting competition in the world. And all people can say is that we can't beat Panama in Panama City. No one gets it. In soccer, every country has experienced players. I'm saying to people: 'Educate yourself now. The boundaries have been extended in global sports, economics and politics.' We have a long way to go.''

STATE OF THE GAME -- ''In soccer, we don't have any administrators with soccer skills, in terms of knowing the game, and that is the case at U.S. Soccer and M.L.S. We are trying to select venues for qualifying games that give us the best chance to succeed but are compromised when games are put in M.L.S. venues to help the league. Not sure playing El Salvador in Foxboro was the best idea.''

M.L.S.
New Coach for New Chivas Team
 CD Chivas USA named Thomas Rongen its first coach last week. Rongen, a native of the Netherlands, has coached three teams in M.L.S. and most recently was the coach of the United States under-20 men's national team. Chivas will serve as the northern outpost of the Guadalajara-based Mexican club. The new team will share the Home Depot Center with the Los Angeles Galaxy. 

STAT CORNER -- The MetroStars are the league's highest-scoring team with 44 on a league-high 416 shots (178 on goal), 43 more than Colorado's 373. The Crew is riding a 14-game unbeaten streak and has allowed only 10 second-half goals in 26 games this season. The Crew has a 7-0-0 record when leading at halftime. Even as much of the hubbub surrounding Freddy Adu has subsided, D.C. United continues to be league's top road attraction, averaging 23,030 fans in away games.

Corner Kicks

AMERICANS ABROAD -- Striker Clint Mathis came on as a substitute late in the second half and scored the game's only goal as Hannover 96 beat Schalke 04 for its first victory in the German Bundesliga this season. Conor Casey played 20 minutes as surprising Mainz moved up to fifth place in the Bundesliga with a 1-1 draw against visiting Borussia Dortmund. Midfielder Claudio Reyna was injured in practice and did not play during Manchester City's loss to Arsenal. He may miss the next two World Cup qualifiers for the United States. Goalkeeper Tim Howard was consigned to the stands again when Manchester United started Roy Carroll, with Ricardo in reserve. Kasey Keller remains as Paul Robinson's backup at Tottenham. Fulham defender Carlos Bocanegra missed the game against Southampton with a tender hamstring but should return next week. His teammate Brian McBride returned to the starting lineup and played the entire game.

COLLEGES -- The senior Chris Karcz, playing in his first game of the season after sustaining a knee injury last spring, scored two goals as Rutgers (3-3-2) beat No. 3 Michigan (6-1) on Friday in Piscataway, N.J. No. 13 Duke (9-0) traveled to College Park, Md., and handed top-ranked Maryland (5-2-1) its second straight loss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%) Soccer; Coaches and Managers; World Cup (Soccer)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (57%); FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: Jack Bell; Bruce Arena

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



598 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Hong Kong: Growth In Exports

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Hong Kong's exports rose at the fastest pace in six months as the city's ports handled more components bound for China and Chinese-made toys, clothes and computers en route to the United States, Europe and Japan. Exports in August rose 21 percent from a year ago, to 182.7 billion Hong Kong dollars ($23.4 billion), after climbing 16.5 percent in July, the government said. Trade with China has helped drive an economic rebound in Hong Kong in the last year. Goods made in China and shipped through Hong Kong account for more than 90 percent of the city's overseas sales.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%) International Trade and World Market

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%) Hong Kong; China

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



599 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Giant Agrees to Alter Business Ways

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Fannie Mae, the nation's largest mortgage buyer and a financial juggernaut that affects the lives of tens of millions of home buyers, agreed yesterday to major changes in its accounting and management practices in an unusual deal reached after a week of negotiations with the company's federal regulator.
 The agreement comes after a scathing report released by the regulator last week that cited accounting irregularities and earnings manipulation that helped enrich the company's senior executives and presented an apparently false portrait of Fannie Mae's financial well-being to the public.
 While the agreement is a rare concession by a powerful and politically astute company that has long resisted regulatory and Congressional pressures to overhaul its practices and structure, analysts and others said it might be only the first of many changes at Fannie Mae. 
 The company is still the subject of a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation that may eventually extend to major Wall Street firms that have dealt with Fannie Mae. Congress is also planning its own hearings on Fannie Mae. And the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, or Ofheo, the main agency responsible for drawing up the new regulatory agreement with Fannie Mae, is examining accounting practices at the company other than those cited in last week's report, as well as board and managerial lapses, according to a person close to that examination. 
 Should further irregularities surface at Fannie Mae, the ramifications could be significant, not only for the company itself, but for the entire mortgage market, which has long depended on Fannie Mae's financial muscle and presence to make widespread home ownership a cornerstone of American life. 
 For all of the questions currently swirling around Fannie Mae, its vast operations have helped keep mortgage rates low. Rather than lending money to prospective homeowners, Fannie Mae buys mortgages from banks that issue them, allowing those banks to make further mortgages and thereby keeping rates low and expanding the size of the market. So if Fannie Mae's activities were curtailed as a result of the current investigations, mortgage rates may rise modestly, creating a political nightmare for members of Congress who may have to face the wrath of angry homeowners.
 Fannie Mae's size, and its government backing, also allow American home buyers to enjoy mortgages with rates that are guaranteed for as much as 30 years, a financial benefit that is unavailable in most other countries where banks typically recalculate mortgage rates monthly.
 Among the most important changes Fannie Mae has agreed to is a requirement that it add more than $5 billion in fresh funds to its capital reserve within the next nine months, a move that would bring its total reserve to about $9.4 billion. The reserve functions as a financial cushion intended to protect the company, and insulate its balance sheet from unforeseen economic downturns or internal risks that might threaten its well-being.
 A person with knowledge of the new agreement said that most of the added reserve was required to address regulatory concerns about internal problems at the company, not external economic threats -- suggesting that the company may have to make enormous restatements as it revises previously issued financial results.
 To meet the new cushion requirement, Fannie Mae would have to shrink itself by selling assets, take on new debt by pursuing a large bond offering, or issue fresh equity that would damp the price of a stock that is among the most widely held in the country.
 Fannie Mae, whose name until 1997 was the Federal National Mortgage Association, also agreed to recalculate the value of complex financial products it has used to hedge its overall exposure to interest rate risks since 2001 and to revise how it has accounted for some expenses.
 A bevy of Wall Street firms, including J.P. Morgan Chase, helped structure and trade some of the disputed hedging products and are likely to come under S.E.C. scrutiny. J.P. Morgan declined to comment yesterday.
 Fannie Mae also agreed that its board would reassess the company's structure, staffing and managerial practices and provide its regulator with regular updates on its progress in meeting the terms of the agreement. Moreover, Fannie Mae agreed to appoint a risk officer who is independent of managerial influence and to ensure that the company's internal auditor was able to make independent assessments of the company's accounting practices. 
 The latter moves indicate that regulators have little confidence that Fannie Mae's chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, as well as other members of Fannie Mae's management and board, have exercised effective oversight of the company.
 ''We are in full support of today's agreement,'' Mr. Raines said in a statement yesterday. ''Working with the board and the company's regulators, we will begin to take steps immediately to comply with and implement the terms of the agreement.''
 The collegiality of Mr. Raines was echoed in a statement released by Armando Falcon Jr., director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. ''The serious concerns raised in Ofheo's report require prompt action,'' said Mr. Falcon, whose term as director ends next month. ''This agreement is an important step toward resolving these concerns and helping to assure safe and sound operations at the enterprise.''
 Mr. Falcon's positive tone yesterday was in stark contrast to his posture just a week ago, when he wrote a sharply worded letter to Fannie Mae's board.
 ''These findings cannot be explained as mere differences in interpretation of accounting principles, but clear instances in which management sought to misapply and ignore accounting principles for the purposes of meeting investment analyst expectations; reducing volatility in reported earnings; and enabling fragmented processes and systems, and an ineffective controls environment to exist,'' Mr. Falcon said in his letter.
 Indeed, a person close to the talks between the regulator and Fannie Mae said that the company had resisted some major provisions of the agreement until late last week, and agreed only after the regulatory agency made it clear that it would take action against Fannie Mae even if the company and the agency did not reach a mutual agreement.
 Fannie Mae is accustomed to playing hardball with critics, regulators, Wall Street and members of Congress. The company was founded in 1938 and in 1968 became a quasi-public, quasi-governmental entity charged with guaranteeing low-income and moderate-income families access to the mortgage market.
 Although Fannie Mae is a publicly traded company with a mortgage portfolio of nearly $900 billion, it also maintains a line of credit with the federal government that enables it to raise funds more cheaply than its competitors because investors and lenders tend to believe that the government will protect it from collapsing.
 Fannie Mae also runs one of the most influential and effective lobbying arms in Washington and its executives enjoy an unusual amount of power in the capital, as well as an unusually handsome level of compensation. Mr. Raines, for example, took home about $20 million in total compensation last year.
 Although Fannie Mae has avoided close scrutiny until very recently, two developments created an environment in which its operations were thrown open to closer examination. First, the White House, Congressional Republicans and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, have been pressing for completely privatizing Fannie Mae and revoking its federal subsidy. Second, last year's accounting scandal at Fannie Mae's sister agency, Freddie Mac, caused the regulatory agency to undertake a closer examination of Fannie Mae's bookkeeping.
 While the regulatory agency, a division of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has been widely criticized for not being up to the task of overseeing an entity as complex and powerful as Fannie Mae, some said yesterday that until recently there were few in Washington willing to take on the company.
 ''It's not that Ofheo wasn't asking questions, it's that nobody was answering,'' said Andrew M. Cuomo, a former director of HUD who appointed Mr. Falcon to be director of the regulatory agency. ''And Ofheo can do something now because there's finally political and Congressional support to do something.''
 The report that the regulator issued last week has opened a chink in Fannie Mae's formidable corporate armor, but it offers little in the way of quantifiable analyses of the problems at the company. Instead, it presents a broad-brush critique, one that reflects the fact that the regulator has few resources to undertake an in-depth examination of Fannie Mae and that the accounting practices under examination involve often arcane issues that are open to a variety of interpretations.
 ''I think the agreement is a positive, indicating that the company is cooperating with the regulators, but it's preliminary in nature,'' said Josh Rosner, an analyst with Medley Global Advisors, a New York research firm. ''I would suspect that this is the end of the beginning rather than the beginning of the end.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about an agreement over accounting between Fannie Mae and its regulator referred incorrectly to legislative efforts in Congress aimed at the company. Lawmakers have pressed for tighter regulation of Fannie Mae, not for full privatization.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armando Falcon Jr. is director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); ETHICS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); MARKET SIZE (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Boards of Directors; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Fannie Mae; Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight; Securities and Exchange Commission; Fannie Mae; Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (59%) Timothy L O'Brien; Franklin D Raines

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004



600 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Trading Charges Over Iraq While Preparing for Debate

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN and ROBIN TONER; Jodi Wilgoren reported from West Chester for this article, and Robin Toner reported from Spring Green, Wis.

DATELINE: WEST CHESTER, Ohio, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Trying out themes for their debate on Thursday, the presidential candidates swung at each other over Iraq on Monday, with President Bush mocking Senator John Kerry as indecisive under pressure and Mr. Kerry accusing him of ''refusing to come clean with the American people.''
 ''It's been a little tough to prepare for the debates, because he keeps changing his positions, especially on the war,'' Mr. Bush said at a rally here that the Secret Service said was his biggest of the year, with 41,000 people passing through metal detectors to enter Voice of America park. ''I think he could spend 90 minutes debating himself.''
 Mr. Kerry used a campaign forum in Spring Green, Wis., to portray the president as a man who blithely proclaimed success even as employment fell, the deficit soared, the number of Americans without health insurance climbed and, perhaps most dangerous of all, the situation in Iraq deteriorated. 
 Invoking Harry S. Truman's memory and his saying, ''The buck stops here,'' Mr. Kerry said Truman would be dismayed to see that ''we have a president who, no matter what the issue, no matter what the choice, he refuses to come clean with the American people.''
 Mr. Bush's gibe fit into the Republicans' unrelenting portrayal of Mr. Kerry since his first days as the presumptive Democratic nominee, as a flip-flopper. Mr. Kerry's comments reflected his camp's recently ramped-up efforts to undermine Mr. Bush's credibility and portray him as the opposite of a flip-flopper -- rigid and unwilling to adjust to the consequences of bad decisions.
 With debate on foreign policy nearing on Thursday, the campaigns traded advertisements on Iraq that underlined their main lines of attack. 
 The Bush campaign's spot, scheduled to run in 16 markets, features clips of Mr. Kerry making various statements on Iraq, several sharply edited to be starkly contradictory. After juxtaposing several -- like Mr. Kerry's saying he supported the president's decision to disarm Saddam Hussein and then, ''I don't believe the president took us to war as he should have'' -- the advertisement asks, ''How can John Kerry protect us when he doesn't even know where he stands?''
 The Kerry spot, which campaign aides said would run in parallel markets to the Bush commercial, begins by highlighting several of Mr. Bush's statements on Iraq and moves to Mr. Kerry's four-point plan to end the conflict. 
 ''George Bush said Iraq was 'mission accomplished,''' a narrator says, referring to the banner on the carrier Lincoln where Mr. Bush stood in May 2003 to declare that major combat was over, something he said this week he would do the same way again.
 ''Sixteen months later, he still doesn't get it,'' the spot continues. ''Today over 1,000 U.S. .soldiers dead, kidnappings, even beheadings of Americans. Still Bush has no plan what to do in Iraq. How can you solve a problem when you can't see it?''
 Mr. Kerry conducted his forum on a day largely devoted to debate preparation, an activity that took much of his high command to a resort in the rolling hills west of Madison. He repeatedly came back to the argument that Mr. Bush had misled the American people.
 ''President Bush hasn't come clean on the economy, won't tell you the truth,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''Here's the truth. The share of the tax burden of the middle class in America has gone up under George Bush. And the share of the tax burden for the wealthiest people in America has gone down under George Bush.''
 On Iraq, Mr. Kerry said, ''Nobody's talking about cutting and running.'' 
 He argued that the United States could not abandon the effort, ''not just for the lives of those who have been put on the line'' but also because the United States could not afford a ''failed Iraq.''
 Mr. Kerry said he had an easy answer for the man who asked whether it was wise to change horses in midstream and oust an incumbent president, recounting, ''I said, 'When your horse is headed down toward the waterfalls or your horse is drowning, it's a good time to change horses in midstream.'''
 Mr. Kerry added, using the ridicule that the Republicans have used against him: ''May I also suggest we need a taller horse? You can get through deeper waters that way.''
 The challenger has honed his defense against the Republican attacks. To the accusation that he is a flip-flopper who cannot be trusted on Iraq, Mr. Kerry quietly said: ''I've had one position steady, all the way, folks, that we ought to stand up and hold Saddam Hussein accountable. But we ought to do it the right way.''
 Here in southwestern Ohio, Mr. Bush spent the afternoon on a bus tour through a largely Republican swath, luring hundreds of supporters to small towns like Cedarville, where a Subway store marquee called out, ''Choose well, Bush Cheney '04,'' and Xenia, where the First United Christian Church billboard said, ''Give God What's Right, Not What's Left.'' 
 Some Democrats also lined the route, like a woman on Route 72 with the sign saying, ''Let's Give Bush His Pink Slip,'' and a stroller-pushing mother whose daughter's placard read, ''Vote Kerry for My Future.''
 At the fairgrounds in Springfield and here in West Chester, Mr. Bush derided ''the fellow I'm running against'' for backing the 2002 Senate resolution that authorized the Iraq invasion but then voting against $87 billion to finance operations and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan, saying on separate occasions that the country was spending too little and then too much on reconstruction in Iraq and calling Iraq ''the wrong war'' after having earlier said that it was ''the right decision.''
 ''You cannot lead if you don't know where you stand,'' Mr. Bush said here to a rousing ovation. ''I will continue to speak as clearly as I can to tell the people what I believe, and I'm not going to change positions when times get tough.''
 In Springfield, Mr. Bush repeated what are perhaps his favorite words to emerge from Mr. Kerry: '''I actually did vote for the $87 billion, before I voted against it.''' 
 Mr. Kerry had voted for a Democratic version of the bill that tied the appropriation to rolling back tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, but then voted against the final version of the $87 billion measure. 
 ''You cannot expect to lead this world if you try to take both sides of every position,'' Mr. Bush said, again hammering home the point. ''He said the whole thing's a complicated matter. There's nothing complicated about supporting our troops in combat.''
 Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, said that Mr. Bush had finished a round of full-scale run-throughs with Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire standing in for Mr. Kerry and that he was in the ''fine-tuning stage,'' planning to spend Tuesday in informal sessions, without lecterns, ''crystallizing policy.''
 ''I'm sure some of the best zingers he's given have been out there with a fishing pole in his hands,'' Mr. Bartlett said of Mr. Bush's private preparation. ''The other thing you guard against is overloading there at the last moment. He's particularly warned us not to do that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, on a bus tour of southwestern Ohio yesterday, stopped for a rally in Xenia. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry pausing to greet students at River Valley Middle School yesterday in Spring Green, Wis. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); METAL DETECTORS (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) Election Issues; Debating; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: VOICE OF AMERICA (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

 
